ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Today we have the honour of having in the gallery of the Chamber the presence of Mr Demetris Syllouris, President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, who is on an official visit to our country. I welcome you, Your Honor, and extend my sincere affection to you on behalf of this Parliament, which I ask you to extend to all the people of Cyprus. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u2	On the other hand, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House that the agenda be amended to exclude point 32, which relates to the urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u3	We now begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, an organic reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, for the protection of freedom of expression. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Firstly, our group would have liked not to have to present this proposal, because that would mean that our Criminal Code, our political system ultimately, would not have the serious shortcomings that we are trying to remedy today, especially in order to bring our democracy into line with the democratic standards of advanced societies, developed societies especially in the areas of fundamental rights and freedom of expression. This law is the result of having a continuous dialogue with many organizations, which we do not need to quote one at a time, but we do want to express our appreciation, because we believe that the final result is an initiative of enormous rigour which I hope your ladies and gentlemen will take into consideration. Our group calls on the rest of the groups in this House to accept its processing as a law, so that we may, sooner than later, repeal some of the articles we have included in our initiative. Of course, this is a profuse law and I will try to summarise some of the points that we consider to be fundamental. I begin, therefore, by placing the context. Our group believes that we are experiencing a very serious moment of democratic involution, which is manifested in the violation of the fundamental right to freedom of expression; a negative freedom, a freedom defended by the liberal tradition and inculcated in our constitutions, in our Penal Code and, yet, at the present time, violated by the Penal Code itself and by the reactionary and conservative climate that is being established in our country. There are two fundamental ways in which freedom of expression is being censored in our country. The first, the law known as the law of the gag, is the attempt to discourage legitimate expression on the street by protesting against the political moment; a law of the gag which has already begun the process in Parliament, in the commissions, and which we hope will be repealed as soon as possible, but which finds a second way, which is to which this law expressly refers, which is the penal way, and which has led us to Bosnian situations in the last few months in our country which knows all the citizens. We have seen how, simply by criticizing the monarchy, by meeting artists making jokes or any kind of artistic manifestation, for example, with Christ or with elements of some religion - in particular, the Catholic religion - they have suddenly been incorporated into judicial proceedings that in some cases have ended with prison sentences. This is not a democracy and that is what we are trying to correct. We think there are two causes. First, that there are obsolete, deeply anachronistic articles in our Criminal Code that should not have been at any time, but that must now be repealed. Secondly, there is a fundamentally ambiguous crime of heightening terrorism, article 578, which brings us into an area of legal insecurity that makes the accused guilty or acquitted on the basis of which judge they are touched. The European directives and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights suggest - when they do not say directly - that all these shortcomings must be corrected. I am going to focus on the fundamentals, on which they have drawn the most attention, because sometimes they have manifested themselves in the form of truly skewed cases. The first is the crime popularly known as an offense to religious feelings. It is clear that feelings cannot prevail over others in a democracy and that it is therefore absurd to penalize these kinds of statements that can be expressed in different formats. In this sense, it is known, for example, the case of Guillermo Toledo, which took place just a few weeks ago and which still continues. It is clear that this crime has so far not been dealt with by the majority of the judges - the occasions on which we have seen ourselves in such a dramatic situation as that someone, by criticizing a religion, is immersed in a judicial process as if the crime of blasphemy is still in force - have been told, but, surprisingly, for a few months now the positions of certain judges have been radicalized and they have begun to admit to processing some of these offenses. Therefore, and following the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, what we propose here is the immediate repeal of this article. We continue with the article known as insults to the Crown, an article that has already twice won the sanction of the European Court of Human Rights, which has twice already condemned Spain, our country, for having made the condemnation prevail over freedom of expression when, in the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights and in the opinion of our parliamentary group, freedom of expression must prevail especially and in a notorious way because democracy also consists, and above all in being able to criticize the institutions above, the institutions with the most power, the institutions with the most strengthened. In our country there is the particular, unique and, in my opinion, anachronistic case that we have a head of state in the form of a monarchy which is also deeply strengthened. That is to say, it is an inviolable, hereditary, vital, feudal monarchy that is sufficiently protected, as it has shown today that the majority of groups in this House do not allow us to initiate a commission of inquiry for possible crimes by members of the Royal House; sufficient protection for us to have to penalize, bring to trial and in many cases - some of them, I insist, at least two, already sanctioned by the European Court of Human Rights - to end with prison sentences. Truly anomalous in a democracy. We are in time to correct it; in time it is a rather generous expression, because I wish it had never existed in our Penal Code. Two similar articles refer to the abuse of national symbols and Government bodies and State institutions. It is clear that in a democracy it must be legitimate to criticize the institutions of the State, so it is quite reasonable that so far the majority of judges have not admitted to prosecution, for example, an insult to the Government, among other things, because many of them are heard in this Chamber and it is the most normal thing in the world, it is part of democracy. Whether or not we like the tone, the concrete content or the terminology of criticism, they are all protected - provided that they are not a crime that leads directly to the commission of violent acts - by freedom of expression. For this reason, fortunately, in our country, these crimes, the crime of outrage against national symbols or the crime of outrage against Governments, have not so far been dealt with in the form of sanctions. However, the climate that we are currently living in, in which, in our view, some of the parties present in this House have a high responsibility, is leading us to have some judges begin to treat as a crime, for example, to silence the anthem of Spain in the presence of the monarchs. We believe that this is also unheard of and that, although we have not so far had cases as surprising as those I have described above with respect to other articles, we must follow the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and a number of other provisions of international bodies that abound in the need for this article to be directly absent. We have a second type of problem with freedom of expression that is manifested in what I have previously described as ambiguities. As you are well aware, a new offence was introduced into the Criminal Code in 2000 which referred to the rise of terrorism and was amended in 2015. This crime, which arose mainly in the years of the armed gang's greatest criminal activity, was barely used until 2011, which is, paradoxically, the date when ETA disappears. Since 2011, when, fortunately, there are no terrorist gangs in our country, this article has been used to condemn more than 70 people for the crime of heightening terrorism, which, as I said before, introduces enormous legal uncertainty, because it is not well defined. Moreover, you also know that, in 2008, the United Nations Human Rights Committee had already warned, at its 2595 session, of the need to clearly specify this crime in order to make a unique and exclusive reference to those sentences, to those textualities which referred to direct violence and which also introduced an element of verifiability, because, if not, the door was being opened to a deeply discretionary interpretation that could end, as has happened in our country, with singers and tweeters - which is clear to everyone that they have no connection with terrorist activity - sentenced and punished with enough years of imprisonment. However, these United Nations recommendations were not followed in 2015, when this article was reformed and hardened. Moreover, it is clear, as I said earlier, that in this situation at the end depends on which judge touches you and on what interpretation it gives of the resulting crime. In the end, we find truly striking cases, as I said before - and I cannot mention all that there are - even playful ones, in which there have been kids, girls who by making songs, by making mentions to Carrero Blanco - a torturer fascist -, to make, for example, jokes about cartoons and write a tweet saying 'Goku lives, the fight continues', have ended in trials in our country for the exaltation of terrorism. This, which is profoundly inappropriate for any democracy, must be corrected. That is why, in our view, it is obvious that we have to act as Amnesty International says, repealing article 578 and amending article 510 of the hate speech so that we can truly accept the ways in which we fight terrorism, because our Criminal Code already has sufficient instruments, as many jurists have pointed out, to combat true and genuine terrorism at this time, such as that of ISIS, with those articles which refer to crimes in which the sentences, as it had previously described and tried to explain, relate to the commission of crimes and direct provocation; direct provocation; and, as I insist, they promote international provisions, they have verifiably. Because, in the end, that a person - young or older - in his or her home - deeply decontextualized - writes a nonsense caused by his or her ignorance and related to terrorist groups that existed in the past should not be punished because he or she lacks the real risk of materializing. We should understand that ignorance, ignorance or even stupidity should not be grounds for entering a trial or being penalized. This is an issue that would in any case compete with the Ministry of Education, but certainly not with the Criminal Code. That is why we propose to include in an important amendment to Article 510 the defence of the victims of terrorism, also amending, in the same line as I have been pointing out in the previous ten minutes, all the elements that are collected from international bodies as healthy for a democracy. I would like to conclude by reflecting with you, especially with the Citizens' Group, on which we are currently ignoring the meaning of your vote. I believe that what we are defining today is a fundamentally liberal law, from that liberal side of defending negative freedom that I believe is well reflected in our constitutions. Our group believes that there is another part missing: positive freedom, the freedom to ensure that people have access to housing, to work, but this is the defense of negative freedom. This reflection is in the heat of the following: our Penal Code and these articles that we want to repeal already existed fifteen years ago and fifteen years ago there were not as many cases as today. This is a question we have to ask ourselves: why is it easier today to enter a trial and even to be punished with prison sentences for criticizing or using the image of Christ fifteen years ago? What's going on in our country? What climate are we building so that the judges, who were then conservative, just like now, and even reactionary, would first see it inconvenient and now see it profoundly convenient? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u5	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. The Forum's vote will be contrary to this consideration, because under the pretext of preserving freedom of expression slides the contempt towards the Spanish Constitution, which in its second chapter recognizes and protects fundamental rights and public freedoms and from which very advanced laws and norms have derived in comparison with other countries of the world homologous to Spain. It is said by someone who has voted against the so-called law gag because it is considered unconstitutional. Although I understand that in the United We may not be European, in the text they put, as a sign of the presumed ill health of such rights, the cases in which the European Court of Human Rights has revoked several judgments of our courts, which, on the other hand, shows that the system of guarantees and our membership in Europe make it possible to correct those judgments that could have the independent functioning of justice built on absolute and unequivocally democratic pillars. In speaking of freedom of expression, we believe that in any case, given the inquisitorial epidemic plagued with procacity, barabasadas and stupidity, among other national and international ills, what could be strengthened are the mechanisms to protect the dignity of people, protect their rights from offense and harassment, safeguard respect for religious sentiments and confront the outrage of symbols, as well as punish incitement to hatred and violence. The Strasbourg Court has also repeatedly pointed out in its jurisprudence that tolerance and respect for the dignity of all human beings are essential fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal summarizes the purpose, which we do not share, of removing legal obstacles that are common in the most advanced societies in the world and facilitates alibis that would give very broad license to trigger and intoxicate through new forms of communication that also allow to propagate false information, especially through social networks, or to perpetrate actions that are criminal at the discretion of the judges and in accordance with the laws. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u7	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a maxim that says: do not want for others what you do not want for yourself. It seems to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the current criminal protection against offenses should be maintained for a group whose sentiment, the religious, is one of the most widespread in Spain, and for an institution such as the King's, precisely because it is the head of the State of this beloved nation. For you an offence, the same offence, is a crime according to who offends or according to the offender. You are very tolerant of some offenses, but you seem to be censors of late-offering against others. You dictate the limits of political correction and now seek to add to your ability to legislate the being of prosecutors or supreme judges. It is often said also, ladies and gentlemen, that one's freedom ends where the freedom of others begins. We do not want or share that freedom of expression contains any absolute right to insult anyone. On the other hand, although the proposal bears the Podemos logo, the text bears Bildu's obvious signature; in fact, they are neither involved nor involved. Hand and handwriting. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, ETA is the biggest corruption known in our democratic Spain, the biggest insult to people, the biggest offense to people. Therefore, allowing your exaltation is the worst idea to combat your tale of terror, unless, as I say, you speak through the mouth of the serpent. [[Applauds]] Allowing the rest, ladies and gentlemen, would be a great injustice to all your victims. We do not want to help them build a society based on the permanent clash of legitimacy, struggle and conflict, and even less to raise the graces of those who offend with hatred. Giving a letter of nature to the insult, depending on who it is directed, is a political hemlock, a poison that corrodes the coexistence that you think you can handle and direct, but that basically speaks very badly of your project of society and also speaks very badly of yourself. We do not share that model and will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u9	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a law that Compromís supports with its vote is interesting for what it takes away and for what it puts forward. It removes censorship, restricts individual freedoms, servile understanding and lack of respect for institutions, absurd criminal protection for some abstract concepts that have been treated as if they were living beings; on the other hand, it puts more protection for people against hatred. Crimes can be committed for various reasons: for passion, greed, nepotism, necessity and hatred, I hate anyone who is perceived as different. These crimes, hate crimes, are particularly worrying in plural societies like ours, in which we live continuously with diversity. The proposed law improves prevention against old and new hatreds. Old hates such as anti-Semitism, that obsession of some to make pay is not known what blames the people of the people of Israel, or like homophobia, which still manifests itself with regrettable episodes. New hatreds are also being fought, such as aporophobia, hatred of the poor, which has shown very violent facets in recent times and which is surprising in a country where poverty has been and continues to be so omnipresent, so obscene, or as hatred of the immigrant, just as surprising in a country where many people have had to go out of need and still do so. It seems we don't remember, in short, where we came from and who we are. We must be sensitive to hatred and we must improve their criminal repression, especially now that even seemingly respectable political leaders are devoting themselves to laying pits of resentful and virulent mud against democratic coexistence. In the face of these attitudes, a democratic rearmament is needed. We understand that this bill contributes and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u11	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Spain is a country in which in the 21st century there is the judicial kidnapping of the book Fariña, in relation to drug trafficking in Galicia, or the country in which a work of art on political prisoners was censored at the ARCO fair or in which rapper Valtònyc is sentenced to three years in prison for reproducing what newspaper owners said in writing. It is a country in which people are prosecuted for putting a clown's nose on the side of a civilian guard. It is worrying that, moreover, in this Chamber today there are political forces voting against the admission to the process of this proposed law that Podemos presents to us. It means that the problem is much more serious than it seems. Amnesty International notes the attacks on the right to freedom of expression in Spain. Society in Spain believes that raising the voice can be dangerous, and this leads to something that is very unfortunate, which is self-censorship, fear of speaking. From 2011 - and it has been said before - to 2017 there have been seventy-six convictions for the rise of terrorism. Today the Spanish state is the country that imprisons the Jordis because it says that they acted violently, in a story invented in order to exemplify, for having legitimately and peacefully defended the idea of the independence of Catalonia. Today, the Spanish State is undoubtedly a State in which freedoms are at risk and in which the democratic involution we are witnessing is very serious. Today, the Spanish State is the one who worries when someone criticizes the monarchy, an institution, ladies and gentlemen, which, if it is strong, should not fear criticism, but which is known to be weak; at least half of Catalans have ceased to be fond of this monarchy. We will therefore vote in favour of admission to this bill. We will introduce the amendments in order to try to improve the text, with the final horizon that rights and freedoms in the Spanish State will not continue to recede. I encourage you to vote in favour so that you can at least debate the precarious situation of these fundamental rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u14	Thank you very much, President. We take into consideration a proposal for a law of the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, which confronts freedom of expression with various criminal conducts that, according to the initiative, harm it without foundation. It is also proposed to actively increase freedom of expression by introducing two types of criminal offence involving public officials against constitutional guarantees. All these criminal types which, according to the initiative, confront the limits of freedom of expression, have in common that are grouped under the same protected legal good, which is the defence of the Constitution of Book II, Title XXI of the Criminal Code, and which protects collective legal goods, that is, not so much to an individual or individual with his honour, feelings or image, but to the whole society - collective legal goods such as the Crown, State institutions, public freedoms and fundamental rights - and avoids offenses against Spain, attacks on terrorism and, as I said, attacks by officials against constitutional guarantees. In the first place, it is questioned that certain conducts punishable against the Crown, State institutions or offensive manifestations against Spain should not have such reproach, since they would not cease to be reflections or manifestations of a political nature and therefore linked to the freedom of expression and ideological, although sometimes they are done unjustly, improperly, offensively and even opprobiously, which should nevertheless not lead to restricting the freedom of expression, which must be applied with a spirit of tolerance, especially when it comes to criticism in political matters, even with symbolic expressions of criticism such as, for example, the burning of symbols, photos, etc., unless, logically, there is an efficient and direct incitement to violence or the dissemination of hate speech, that is, what has been called the doctrine of the clear and imminent risk of causing materially violent and harmful behaviour. Finally, in the face of the protection of the community through its institutions, freedom of expression must prevail in a democratic society, since it helps to confront political debate and free citizen participation, in addition to being guaranteed both in article 10 of the European Convention and fundamental right in the Constitution itself. This is also the position of international organizations, such as the European Court of Human Rights, which we recall is accumulating sentences against Spain for not complying with the Convention, or the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which claims that the criminal protection of institutions must at all costs avoid limiting the critical freedom of citizens and, in the same sense, the UN Human Rights Committee, concerned about the existence of crimes that protect flags, symbols and institutions from political and ideological criticism, however untapped and inappropriate it may be. With regard to the conduct that may affect any of the manifestations of so-called hate crimes or discriminatory crimes, I recall that they originate from the Jewish holocaust and the negationist ideas of genocide, as a justification for it, hate crimes that prohibit the provocations of violence and rejection against vulnerable groups, in attention to the social reality they live in. The proposal proposes a new wording of article 510, in order to improve its compatibility in some respects with the fundamental right to freedom of expression, in the light of the above-mentioned doctrine of clear and imminent risk, which would exclude conduct that indirectly promotes hatred, since it would not be a question of punishing neither the mere feeling of hatred, however rejectable they are, nor the expression of ideas, as execrable as they are. With regard to the crimes of terrorism, article 578 proposes the abolition of the crime of exaltation, which, in its 2015 drafting, raises doubts and debates in view of the breadth of its wording, leading to an advance of the criminal response until it is found and collided with politically motivated opinion and whose intention is in no way to destroy our model of coexistence, and which also do not manifest themselves efficiently for this purpose of subverting the constitutional order, as described in articles 1.1 and 10.1 of the Constitution. For its part, the decriminalization of the satire of religious beliefs is considered necessary by understanding the initiative which also restricts freedom of expression, while religious beliefs are sufficiently protected by the rest of the articles of the section, in addition to the prohibition contained in Article 515(4) for associations, and with the aggravating factor referred to in Article 22(4). Indeed, in this case we find the difficult balance between two fundamental rights of equal rank, freedom of expression and religious freedom, and also both with equal protection in international instruments on human rights and fundamental rights, as religious freedom is one of the achievements and foundations of democratic societies, in addition to one of the elements that shape the identity and conception of life of believers, as pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights. Without prejudice to the above, we must also remember that religious ideas and beliefs continue to be a kind of ideological freedom and that the protection of these does not prevent criticism by those who do not share them. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights also points out that those who choose to exercise freedom to manifest their religion cannot expect to be exempt from any criticism, must tolerate and accept the denial by others of their religious beliefs, including the propagation by others of doctrines contrary to their faith. I'm finishing up, President. The legislative initiative before us addresses one of the key issues in a democratic state and, therefore, does not exempt itself from abstinence. The Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of its consideration for its subsequent debate, in order to consider, where appropriate, the proposals that are made to us or others that may come to the forefront of it, without knowing that freedom of expression also extends to ideas that can offend, shock or disturb; and without knowing either that it may not be reasonable or advisable to mount on an idea, such as who rides on a boat, and to be taken where it takes us, as Ortega and Gasset once said. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u15	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u16	Good afternoon, congressmen, congressmen. In recent years we have seen how political and judicial powers have violated freedom of expression, a right enshrined in article 20 of the Constitution as a fundamental right and of public freedoms. Everyone has the right to question the form of political organization of his State and to be able to express his disagreement with the current political system and to express his opinion. However, we have witnessed the increasing limitation and aggression on freedom of expression and opinion. There are already many cases in which certain institutions and personalities considered untouchable by factual powers have prevailed over the free exercise of rights. One. We speak of the singer Valtònyc, today in exile after being sentenced to three and a half years in prison by the Supreme Court for the exaltation of terrorism. Two. We are talking about rapper Pablo Hasel, sentenced to two years and a day in prison by the National High Court for raising terrorism and insulting the Crown and the Government. Three. We're talking about actor Willy Toledo, quoted and charged with crime against religious sentiments. Four. Madrid puppeteers arrested and sent to prison without bail in 2016, accused of the rise of terrorism and incitement to hatred. Five. The Thursday magazine. Guillermo Martínez-Vela was charged and charged with an offence of insulting the police. Six. Actor Toni Albà, accused of a crime of insulting judges, prosecutors and police forces after the publication of tweets. You are. Councilman Jordi Pesarrodona, accused of a crime of disobedience and accused of a crime of hatred and resistance for putting on a clown's nose. Eight. Albert Donaire, investigated for a hate crime of tweeting. Nine. The censorship of the work Political prisoners in Santiago Sierra's contemporary Spain at the Arco Fair. Ten. Censorship of the book Fariña. Eleven. The prohibition of stellates, whistles and yellow at the end of the King's Cup. Sweet. Operation Spider, tweeter Cassandra Vera, sentenced to one year's imprisonment and seven months'disqualification by the National High Court; César Strawberry sentenced to one year's imprisonment and six and a half months'disqualification for the exaltation of terrorism; Alfredo Ramírez, sentenced to one year's imprisonment; seventy-three more tweeters were arrested. Pass. The so-called procession of the insumious pussy: the three women will be tried for a crime against religious feelings. Fourteen. The Insurgency, sentenced the twelve members of the music group to two years and one day in prison by the National Court for the exaltation of terrorism. Fifteen. Evaristo Páramos, exhilarating from La Polla Records, denounced by the letter of a jota dedicated to the police. Sixteen. Eduard Biosca, accused of a crime of insulting the security forces by a gag in a radio program. Seventeen. The professor of Pompeu Fabra University, Héctor López Bofill, accused of insults for tweeting, as well as six others accused of criticizing the Madrid City Police. Eighteen. Young Daniel Serrano, sentenced to a fine for a crime against religious sentiments. Nineteen. We cannot forget the condemnation of Jaume Roura and Enric Stern for burning a photograph of the kings in 2008, a conviction on which the European Court of Human Rights considered that to be part of the free exercise of freedom of expression. Finally, we must remind our political and exiled prisoners and prisoners that they are being subjected to repression by the State for thinking, thinking and defending a certain political ideology. [[Applauds]] Thus, the summit of this judiciary has highlighted the lack of independence of the public authorities, the lack of democracy and the lack of fundamental rights and freedoms, in the framework of a clear democratic retreat. And since this cannot happen in the 21st century, we will give our support to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering what the position of my group was going to be in this motion for a law, and I will start by clearing the doubt, and we are going to vote against it. When you talk to us about liberal principles and freedom of expression, it is true, freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rights of liberal democracies, Mr Garzón; not of other political regimes that are dear to you precisely. With this, I am grateful that you have here today chanted these negative freedoms, those freedoms on which liberal democracies are founded, not dictatorial regimes. [[applause]] You asked a second question - why today there are more crimes, more disputes, more judicial proceedings for these types of crimes - and I will give you my humble opinion. You attribute it to the encampment of judicial and police persecution. Perhaps we should consider whether we have experienced in recent years a process of loss of respect or of the values of institutions, of common principles. And in addition, all this has been thrown away with some political parties that have made the attack on the institutions their main raison d'être. Maybe there's some reason for that. But we certainly talk about freedom of expression and I do not want to leave any room for doubt: freedom of expression for us, for Citizens, is a basic pillar of our democracy; without any doubt. But we are not talking about that today because the catalogue of crimes that you bring to this House to suppress what you basically talk about is the defense of common symbols and our constitutional institutions; that is what your bill is about. And in all democratic countries - I repeat, in all democratic countries - Mr Garzón, the Criminal Code contains the outrages against the country, the insults against the head of State and, of course, no one is shocked by this. Because defending those symbols, defending common symbols, defending democratic institutions is defending the principles and values that we have given ourselves. [[Applauds]] Behind these institutions are the constitutional values, the values of Spanish democracy. I am concerned, it particularly hurts me that you seek to suppress the crime of heightening terrorism and justify it by saying that that has already happened in history. It hasn't happened in history. Precisely in history is the sacrifice of thousands of Spaniards who gave their lives for democracy, precisely there are 314 murders of ETA still without condemnation. [[Applauds]] Four out of ten terrorist gang crimes since 1977 remain unresolved. And as long as that happens, as long as this is so, we certainly find it absolutely repulsive to make the criminal protection of the victims of terrorism disappear, our heroes of democracy, which is what you intend to do here today. [[Applauds]] We could have a legal debate on the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, on whether the penalties set out in the Criminal Code are the most appropriate or not, on the limits to freedom of expression, in short, we could talk about all that, but today for us here it is a question of legislating, first for the own benefit of some parties such as the Republican Left, that the burning of Spanish flags, of course, of common symbols and even the burning of copies of the Constitution on television have made it almost a sport. That is what you propose, to legislate for your own benefit. But no matter how much they repeat it, it is not true that political ideas are penalized in this country at all. You can think, feel, feel and come here and express what you want in this rostrum and on which it is not this too, and you can do so because Spanish democracy, Spanish liberal democracy, protects and protects them, that democracy that is based on those symbols that are reflected in the 1978 Constitution. [[applause]] We are not going to protect those who have made hatred of Spain and hatred of constitutional values their raison d'être, because that would be as much as humiliating the whole of the Spaniards. This is not the first time that a similar initiative has been discussed in this Parliament. A very similar initiative was also discussed in this House on March 13, 2018, which brought Republican Esquerra. I will read a paragraph, not mine, but from the spokesman Mr Torres Mora of the Socialist Party. Mr Torres Mora said on March 13, 2018: '... it's about the freedom of what this debate is about. You rely on the old paradox as to how the democracies of those who want to end them by democratic procedures are defended and ask us, in the name of democracy and freedom, to legislate to slander, insult or insult Spain and the head of state to stop being crimes. What is more, what you claim is that slandering, insulting and insulting a person or a country is an expression of freedom, and with both statements we have a substantive disagreement.' I radically subscribe to the words of Mr Torres Mora expressed on 13 March. Torres Mora said: 'It has been a long time since human beings learned that the absence of laws, of limits does not make us more free, but more vulnerable to our passions and the whim of the powerful.' Well, gentlemen of the PSOE - I am addressing you now - told us in your day that the majority of the motion of censure was only for the motion, that they had not been mortgaged on anything, that the only thing that united them with the parties that voted for the motion was their desire to evict the PP of the Moncloa. Evidently, all this was a lie, it is shown day by day. And now you can see what the tolls were: budgets that are negotiated in a vis a vis for humiliation of all the Spaniards and their democratic institutions; Mr. Pablo Iglesias, de facto vice president of his government, promising the PNV a status of the Basque State in exchange for voting the General Budgets of the State, and in general a sustained slip of the PSOE, a historical party, out of the margins of constitutionalism. Well, you are about to cast a vote that we believe is crucial, and you have the opportunity to do so with lucidity and responsibility. If you want to crawl into those outer margins of constitutionalism, do so. Of course we are not going to follow them, but we ask them to defend the same position here today in the same terms as on March 13, 2018 and that so brilliantly defended in this Chamber the deputy Torres Mora. That's what we ask, lucidity and responsibility. Of course, Citizens, we're going to behave like this. We will reject this initiative, as we reject that of Esquerra Republicana, and we will continue to defend the constitutional symbols, reflecting the best values of Spanish democracy: freedom, justice, equality and pluralism, the values that the Spanish gave us in the 1978 Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u19	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is one of the basic and essential foundations of a truly plural, free and democratic society. Hence, according to a consolidated doctrine of the Constitutional Court, it has a predominant value in our legal system, derived from its social dimension which adds to the individual's personal self-realization; that is, its suitability to contribute to the formation of a free public opinion, which is the cornerstone of democracy. In order for this freedom to be real and be able to contribute effectively to the realization of such free public opinion, we must understand not only those ideas or opinions which are welcomed or which are considered harmless or indifferent, but also, as the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights reminds us, those which contradict, clash, disturb or disturb the State and its institutions or any part of the population, even if it affects, Mr Prendes, the very essence of the Constitution and even the same democratic system. Ladies and gentlemen, as Orwell said, if freedom means anything, it is the right to tell people what they do not want to hear, in particular, as Judge William Brennan said, in the case of the New York Times versus Sullivan of 1964, debates aimed at public issues should be held without inhibitions, vigorously and openly, assuming that this could obviously include vehemently, caustic and sometimes unpleasant attacks on the Government and public employees. Since it is certainly not an absolute right, this freedom, Mr Prendes, can and must be subject to certain restrictions established by the Constitution and the law, provided that they pursue a legitimate purpose within the framework of protected legal assets, whenever they are necessary in a democratic society, and provided that they are also proportionate. To this end, both the legal assessment of the objective pursued and the content and context of the statements made are precise and relevant. In other words, given its prevailing value, restrictions on freedom of expression must be particularly scrupulous and should be solidly justified. That is, such limitations place us, therefore, in what Popper called the paradox of tolerance; that is, how far democracy should tolerate intolerants. From this perspective, there is quite a social and doctrinal consensus that certain problems related to freedom of expression do not receive, in our legal system, a satisfactory response, at least not fully satisfactory. What are the reasons? The reasons are, on the one hand, an excessive penalty. Since article 510 often seemed excessive and disproportionate, it almost did not apply and there was a need to explore other possibilities, such as that provided by the so-called anti-discrimination administrative law. There are also certain aspects of imprecise criminal regulation that create legal uncertainty. The concept of hate speech, as all your ladies and gentlemen know, which has its raison d'être in the protection of vulnerable groups, sometimes appears remarkably sketchy. On the other hand, certain contradictions with the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court has repeatedly stated that certain aspects of our Criminal Code, when it comes to conduct or expressions referring to a public office, are contrary to the provisions of the 1950 European Convention. Thus, it is stated in the judgment of the European Court that the acceptable limits of criticism have to be broader here than when it comes to a mere particular. He even says: when criticism affects the person himself, because political invective often carries and affects the personal sphere and represents a lot of political and free debate of ideas, which are the guarantees, he insists, of a democratic society. A very broad set of judgments could be cited here, as is well known. Legal inaccuracies and subsequent judicial hesitations can not only cause disproportionate restrictions of law, but also cause legal uncertainty and what the doctrine also calls the so-called disheartening effect, which is self-containment in the communication of personal ideas for fear of punishment. Both, the disproportionate limitation of freedom of expression and the disheartening effect of the absence of clear limits, undoubtedly constitute an attack on the very foundations of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this, it is a fact that there is an open debate in society on the limits of freedom of expression. The purpose of this bill is to repeal in some cases and to amend in others those articles of our Criminal Code that its promoters understand to clash head-on with freedom of expression, are anachronistic or have a difficult or inadequate fit into our democratic system. With an argument that is anchored in the consideration of national, international and supranational normative texts of the European Union in the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights and our Constitutional Court, as well as invoking criminalistic doctrine and recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the statement of reasons goes through different criminal types that in their view need to be suppressed or modified for the proper protection of freedom of expression, in the latter case eliminating indeterminate legal concepts and other elements likely to generate legal uncertainty. I'm finishing up, Madam President. On behalf of my group, I will not discuss in this speech the variety of assumptions that arise because detail makes it impossible - I am already in red - and because in this procedure of consideration there has to be something else, the assessment of the need or not to open this debate in a matter that could eventually lead to legislative amendment. In this sense, based on the understanding and recognition of the maturity of our democracy and assuming our objective of deepening and improving it, our group shares with the proposing group the need to review those criminal definitions that contain a legislative hyperregulation introduced by the People's Party during the 10th Legislature or that are in need of precision. On the other hand, Mr Prendes, I will tell you that it has certainly been reflected in point 11 of the recent budget agreement for 2019, which is absolutely legitimate, between the government and the Union Podemos. We adopt this position - and I conclude - assuming that criminal law in some cases and by virtue of the principle of minimum intervention is not the most appropriate tool for the protection of certain rights with which freedom of expression can collide, especially in a democracy like ours, which is not militant, as our Constitutional Court has repeatedly said, and that in others the existing criminal regulations are needed to ensure constitutionally adequate rights of assembly and demonstration and freedom of expression. But we also call for a minimum of coherence to be maintained in the proposals. Mr Garzón, it is really surprising that the proponent group of this initiative will take to the Senate, on the one hand, for its consideration a text amending the wording of the fourth aggravating article of article 22 of the Criminal Code incorporating reasons for aporophobia or social exclusion, while in what we consider in this House today this aggravating is not contemplated or is not aware that there are certain commitments that cannot be exceeded. Thus, for example, as has also been recalled here by other spokespersons, the State Pact against Terrorism, which was, yes, in the fight against ETA, but which remains renewed as a result of the new global terrorist threat. This has resulted, for example, in Organic Law 2/2015, a law inspired by a United Nations resolution. I'm done. For these reasons we announce that our group is going to vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration, but we say that we are going to examine it with all the rigour and depth that are due in such a singularly important matter. We therefore announce that we will formulate all those amendments which we consider necessary for the updating and appropriate adjustment of the legal regulation of the aforementioned criminal types with the protection of freedom of expression according to criteria of necessity, adequacy, legal certainty and proportionality in a democratic society. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u21	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u22	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, someone could say that the Socialist Party this afternoon is crossing the Rubicon - someone could say it - in any case, we, unlike a PSOE and a shameful government, are not going to support the consideration of this bill, because we do not share the title, ladies and gentlemen. This is not a proposal for a law to protect freedom of expression, Mr Garzón, it is the proposal for a law of the free bar, of impunity for those who attack the freedom of expression of all others. [[Applauds]] In short, free bar against our symbols and institutions, impunity on social networks, free bar to trivialize hate crimes, impunity to offend the feelings of Catholics - we have never seen them mount the number in a mosque, never -, free bar for the exaltation of terrorism and impunity to denounce the police if it bothers friends of Podemos. [[applause]] Everything goes against those who defend what We can destroy. Its reform has a political objective: the impunity of those who attack the freedom of expression of others. We believe that all Spaniards deserve the protection of the law in the exercise of freedom of expression, with the Criminal Code - it is true - as the last ratio, but with the Criminal Code at the bottom. We defend freedom, whether we like Podemos or the Socialist Party or not. His explanatory statement, which has repeated us here as an intervention, which is intended to be legal, is nothing more than a selection of references to the political convenience of Podemos and the slots of the Socialist Party. Only in this way can it be concluded that article 525 in Spain prevents criticism of religious confessions or that articles 490, 491 and 504 prevent criticism of institutions. And his obsession with the repeal of the 578 crime of heightening terrorism is only explained by his observer position, that is, his refusal to sign the pact for freedoms and against terrorism. [[Applauds]] We, Mr Garzón, do not want to repeal 578. Moreover, we believe that these receptions and tributes to the ages that we see every Monday and every Tuesday, perpetrators of infamous crimes, must also have criminal reproach, and we will defend it for the future. According to you, for these things it is sufficient for the types of hate crimes, but your proposal trivializes hate crimes, reduces in many cases to fines the penalties of articles 510 and 516 and leaves on wet paper that aggravating fourth of article 22 which you have introduced as a novelty and which is a mockery of the dignity and rights of the victims of terrorism. The only purpose of such a paralegal raid is to conceal the reality of Spain as a State in which freedoms are respected, including freedom of expression, and where it is the courts that decide what is or is no longer a crime; a country in which sentences are respected when we like them and when we don't like them. By the way, constitutional Spain, Mr Garzón, is one of the democracies that best complies with the Rome Convention and receives fewer convictions from Strasbourg. [[Applauds]] In 2017, none. In 2017 there were 641 lawsuits dealt with and no condemnation of Spain. Not today, by the way. I do not know if anyone has taken any disgust, but today there has also been no condemnation of Spain in Strasbourg. You will recognize me, Mr Garzón, that this reality is a remarkable contrast to your apocalyptic statement of reasons for freedom of expression in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain everyone's freedom of expression is enshrined in the Constitution, regulated by law and guaranteed by the courts. In other countries it's hypothetical. You can try, Mr. Garzón, to criticize the feudal leaders, I suppose, of the Iranian revolution or send Mr. Iglesias - you are already having practice - to visit in prison some of those Iranian women sentenced to two years for taking away the Islamic veil in public for a few seconds, or you could say something about Venezuela, that generous and grateful dictatorship that you so well know. There they began with the exaggeration, then they suppressed Parliament, then they drowned in blood the freedom of expression on the streets and now they throw out the window those who raise the voice against the regime. [[Applauds]] Of course, Mr. Garzón wanted Leopoldo López in prison for beating. Do you remember? And here the confederals applauded to rabies. That is reactionary, ladies and gentlemen; that is reactionary. With such background, I must say that its flow of legitimacy in defence of human rights and freedom of expression is simply bankrupt. In Spain, however, there are also attacks on freedom of expression: the Movement against Intolerance estimated five hundred hate crimes in 2017. There are citizens who do not support ideas, symbols or the mere presence of those who think differently. You see, for a democratic retreat, as I told you before, of the PDECAT, Manresa and other places, for example, with that proclamation of: let us point them out, to the Spaniards - whom they call Spaniards, of course -. They return the facades covered with photographs of the pointed ones, their addresses marked with targets and social networks with messages like the one that wishes the death to our colleague Enric Millo, former government delegate in Catalonia. Some in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we have good reason to know, in our own flesh, that none of this has anything to do with freedom of expression and indeed much to do with the suppression of the freedoms, all the freedoms, of those mentioned. For the same reason, in Vitoria, the mere presence of a national flag on a balcony was bulging in a gang. You want the impunity of the harassers, just as you held in your day that it was freedom of expression the harassment of the homes of militants of the People's Party. Of course, I think I remember those addresses weren't in Galapagar, were they, Mr. Garzón? That must be the question. [[Applauds]] Mr Garzón, Socialists, this is the ground on which the battle must be fought in defence of freedom of expression in Spain, a ground on which Podemos is neither expected nor expected. Only you, it is true, have been pointed out in Spain for threatening and fearing journalists; yours is the vetoed press, the manipulated media, judges and prosecutors addicted to the government of change. Then, with that resume, they come here to give lessons. You always with Valtonyc, that of 'ETA is a great nation', 'Bauzá should die in a gas chamber'; always with Pablo Hasel: 'It deserves to blow up Patxi López's car!' - Remember?-; or with Def with Two and that Ortega Lara thing we'd have to kidnap him now. Well, look, you with the violent and those who trample on rights and those who jail you and us with the victims, now and forever, Mr. Garzón. [[Applauds]] I recognize to you that the Lords of Podemos have very fine skin, extraordinarily fine. They cover the PP with improperity, but then protest for allusions to the slightest reference here or in the Senate, and for nothing claim police protection for their modest suburban homes or for their people. You are experts in double standards, that must be recognized, in that you have several masters and three doctorates. I suppose they know that the same police officers Mr Sánchez and Mr Grande-Marlaska want to leave unprotected by reinterpreting key aspects of the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. The same policemen who this proposal criminalizes by creating the types of 536 bis and 538.2 for alleged actions in violation of freedom of expression, those who qualified as thugs at the service of the rich, protect the Galapagar leader and at the same time see their security at risk and their ability to act in defense of the freedoms and security of all questioned with proposals like this. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Freedom of expression does not cover contempt and insult against individuals or groups; freedom of expression is not a free bar to threaten, humiliate or incite hatred, as Spanish and European jurisprudence makes clear. In democracy that can be a crime, and it is the courts who decide the extent of the intolerable, the existence or not of an offence. In democracy, Mr Garzón, the key is respect; respect for others and respect for judicial decisions. A conviction that you also have odd days, depending on who is offended or threatened. Therefore, we will vote against admitting to process the free bar posed by Podemos according to who. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u23	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in addition to the President of the Parliament of Cyprus, we have the pleasure of receiving a delegation from the School of Government of the Parliament of Uruguay, an institution with which this Congress of Deputies has been working for the past ten years. I warmly welcome you on behalf of this House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the organ of reform of the Organization Act 1/2004 of 28 December 2004 on measures to protect against gender-based violence. [[File number 122/00255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u24	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of Organic 1/2004, of 28 December, of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress today brings to debate this proposal for an organic law and for its presentation it is necessary to make some recent history. The State Pact against Gender Violence signed by this House in 2017, last year, obliges the amendment of a number of laws to strengthen the legal framework for the prevention of violence and the fight against its effects, as well as for the recovery of victims. For this reason, the Government of the People's Party developed through the creation of a technical group, a preliminary draft law on the reform of Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. This preliminary draft was about to be sent to the Council of Ministers when the motion of censure which unexpectedly led the Socialist Party to the presidency of the Government was produced and as a working and closed document it already had the mandatory reports of the technical general secretariats of the Ministries of Health, Social Services and Equality, Justice, Interior, Employment and Social Security, Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations, Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness, National Commission on Markets and Competition, Fiscal Council and General Council of the Judiciary, General Commission of Codification, Spanish Data Protection Agency, Economic and Social Council, Autonomous Communities, Cities of Ceuta and Melilla, Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and also had the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and the report of the Council of State, which gave their approval or proposed improvements that were incorporated into the text. This preliminary draft when the Government changes is recovered by the People's Parliamentary Group and registered in this House on 29 June. A month later, the Socialist Government took up the same text and, in a boast of intellectual imprudentness, but also of absolute contempt for the People's Parliamentary Group and this proposal for organic law, transformed it into a royal decree-law with the consequent problems of possible unconstitutionality that we have already dealt with when the royal decree was debated on 13 September and which were the subject of wide controversy during the month of August. The text of the royal decree-law remains basically the same, but it changes on two substantial issues, in essence. On the one hand, the Socialist Party is unable to assume that the Istanbul Convention obliges the definition and attention of all forms of violence against women and, on the other hand, the second question, the Socialist Party is also unable to assume that minors have, since the 2015 legislative reform of the People's Party Government, also been victims of violence, of that same terrible violence. That is why there is a substantial change in the text. For the first reason, the proposal for article 1 made in Organic Law 1/2004 and in our proposal for organic law is amended. The concept of violence against women, as set out in the Istanbul Convention, has to be determined in some legal text and, thus, defined in the text that we present as any act of violence against women by reason of being a woman or affecting her disproportionately under the terms established by the international treaties and conventions ratified by Spain. This does not like the Socialist Party and its government, so they have carefully removed all vestiges of other forms of violence in the text presented, in the text that later becomes the real decree-law, without understanding that it is an impractical encroachment, since the concept of violence against women has now been transformed not only in Spain but in much of the countries that make up the Council of Europe, having signed, ratified the Istanbul Convention forty-seven states in 2018. For the second reason mentioned, the death or disappearance of a minor and other forms of violence against him must also be included in the law so that the same comprehensive protection that the mother has extends to that minor. The Socialist Government is unable to assume that in these years of the People's Party Government the existing legislation has been amended to provide the same protection for mothers and their children. A truly dangerous incapacity, because the annual figures that we continue to handle - although you would like them to be handled in global accounting and yet we continue to use the annual figure - indicate that murders and assaults on minors by your parents are unfortunately very frequent. You have made these references disappear from the text, in the same way as you have made such important protection measures disappear for such minors as the prohibition of rapprochement and communication that the accused will have with regard to the female victim and minors when they have witnessed or suffered the criminal act or lived together in this environment of violence. The truth is that we are missing out on what reasons the Government can have to prevent the law from establishing that minors who live with a violent father and have witnessed or been subjected to such violence can be released from that relationship through the prohibition of rapprochement and communication with the violent parent. The text submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group also includes the possibility that such measures can be maintained after the sentence at first instance during any appeals and until the final sentence is notified to the convicted person, all of which, of course, for the sake of better protection of minors who, as we see, unfortunately and increasingly, are often the perfect instrument of the abusers to cause the greatest pain to their mothers and are themselves victims of the inhuman cruelty of their parents. Let us remember that 2017 ended with the terrible number of seven minors killed. For the same reasons, do not distort the socialist concept of violence against women, leaving it exclusively in the context of violence by the spouse or ex-spouse, partner or ex-partner and exclude minors from the protection system established by law. All temporary provisions intended to cover victims of other forms of violence against women also disappear; for example, the obligation to draw up specific and comprehensive laws for the care, recovery, awareness-raising, training, coordination, prevention, detection and statistical treatment, but also the obligation to collect and disseminate detailed statistical data on the different forms of violence against women, to conduct periodic surveys to assess their scope and social perception and to encourage research on these subjects. They also abolish the obligation for the organs of the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the local authorities to provide the data in their possession and the public nature of the studies that the delegation could carry out on these forms of violence. All this disappears from the text in the fores, we understand, of a greater purity of this one. It also disappears the six-month deadline that the proposed law establishes to bring into this House a law against trafficking in human beings, with the consequent setting up of an inter-ministerial working group for its realization and we assume that, for the same reasons, they also abolish the establishment of a State coordinating table on sexual violence that the text established pending the adoption of a specific and comprehensive law on sexual violence; a body envisaged for the advice, evaluation, institutional collaboration, preparation of reports and studies and proposals for action on sexual violence against women and girls, depending, of course, on the Government Delegation for Gender Violence. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we bring this text to your attention because we understand that it is a lot that we have ahead of us to be truly effective in eliminating this very serious social disease, not only in terms of violence against the partner or ex-partner, but in the other manifestations of violence that women suffer and in which in several cases we have to start a path that has not been practically ousted. Nor can we forget minors, direct or indirect victims of violence against themselves or their mothers, who, because of their particular vulnerability, are used as means of domination, being in many cases exposed to the same violence or suffering, or worse. The original text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group is more comprehensive and more effective in achieving the objective we pursue when we adopt the State Pact: to be more effective in eliminating violence in its various forms, because it establishes permanent measures that improve the existing framework but also because they propose the way forward to tackle all forms of violence against women. That is why we want to ask for your vote in favour of your consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is appropriate to take this into account, which deepens the legislative instruments we have gradually adopted in Spain to continue and improve the fight against violence against women, with the new additions explained by the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Marta González. [[The lady]] Last September, the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures for the Development of the State Pact against Gender Violence was validated and this proposal for an organic law to reform the Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures proposed by the People's Group updates and continues the intense parliamentary and legislative work being carried out on this subject, to which Forum has unconditionally facilitated its support, including the current Law on General Budgets of the State, with its important financial allocation of 200 million euros to develop actions to combat this social scourge not only from the State, but also from the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities. Let me refer to the tenacity of Mrs Ángeles Álvarez, the Socialist MEP, during the procedure of the current public accounts. A very substantial part of the proposals put forward are based on the work carried out in this XII Legislature, both in Congress, culminating in the adoption just over a year ago of the report of the subcommission for a State Pact on Gender Violence, as well as in the Senate through the Equality Commission and the presentation created for that purpose, whose report for the elaboration of preventive and protection strategies, as well as reparation for victims, received more or less on the same dates the endorsement of the plenary of both Houses. I think it is appropriate to continue to delve further into the legislation in the more than two hundred measures resulting from both reports and the work of many people, and to continue the struggle to try to eradicate this drama that we live in Spain, with a criminal chronology of mortal victims and its tragic sequel of family victims, especially minors, which highlights the huge black hole for society that involves violence against women. By the way, this morning another fatal victim in Seville, raising to forty-two women killed in 2018. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, you are not a mortal victim, you are another murdered; you are not the same mortal victim as you were killed. There's another woman killed because of the macho violence. [[Applauds]] Today we come to debate again on equality, this time to amend the Organic Law on Gender Violence and this would not be news if this proposed law did not come from the People's Party. Mrs Gonzalez said that this law was about to come out when the motion of censure came, I guess just like everything else in the pact was about to come out. You've made some recent history, I'll make you another part of recent history that has been left. For example, when you tried to boycott the pact of state in the negotiations so that it would be delayed; when you were very long without allowing agreements to be reached and doing filibusterism so that that pact would not go forward; when you suppressed, you disappeared from the map 120 million euros of the pact and another 80 we tried to believe that you were, because, finding them, we also did not find them; or when you spent more than a year with the pact approved and frozen being in government. This is also part of the recent history that you should remember before you come here to give us lessons from nothing, because now you bring us a short and stick of the state pact, a short and stick of that text and I don't know, really, do you think that women, those outside and those in here, are going to believe this pantomime? Mrs Gonzalez, this is pure hypocrisy. All that matters to you is the partisan interest, even if that goes against the victims of gender-based violence and even if that delays the processing of organic laws, because there is a law where you can make amendments and you don't do it because you don't want to. In addition, you know that we agreed that we would bring amendments to that law and you would pass that through the lining, because what you want is to come here and get a headline. That is not only dangerous, Mrs González, but also hypocritical. So - and I also say this to other parties that are presenting contradictory laws to each other - we will be consistent, we will stop trying to hang medals and try to have here the perseverance of equality. We're going to try to have some solidarity and work really hard so that there are laws out there that change women's lives. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I hope you have your title today and your title is that Congress stands before the hypocrisy of the People's Party. Thank you. [[Mr Martínez Oblanca asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I understand that you want to make some clarification and I would ask you, please, to stick to the concrete and not to open the debate. Come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u31	With absolute brevity, Madam President. Thank you so much. I just wanted to point out exactly the terms in which I referred to the victim this morning in Seville. I said exactly: By the way, this morning another fatal victim in Seville, raising to forty-two women killed in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. This will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u33	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, you leave me a little bewildered for a number of reasons. Firstly, because I was here in this House at the beginning of this parliamentary term and I followed the actions of your Government which supported your parliamentary group in relation to what we are debating today in this session. You had the Ministry of Equality diluted in a macro-ministery. You signed the State Pact, but you didn't put a single euro to implement it, and today you come here in a hurry to present a document that should theoretically be faithful to the State Pact, which you also signed, because you consider that the thing is stopped and that without you that is not saved. I'd say, "I'm glad you're not here anymore, because if you're not, we'd be worried! What do we have? We have a royal decree that validated this House a month ago, a month ago, and a legislative procedure where you can bring in those fantastic ideas that you present here today in the form of a law so as not to block a procedure that is already open. My group suspects - and Mrs Sorlí has mentioned this - that it is not that you care little about the subject, it is that you care more about your picture on this subject. If they're going to play this game, we're not going to be found. There is an open procedure where you can contribute your ideas, that document can turn it into an amendment and it would be fabulous if you did so because you would demonstrate in this case and your opinion on it, but not by opening a procedure parallel to other open procedures that you do only dilate a topic that is quite complex. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against this initiative because we believe that what you are looking for is basically your photograph, which is not deserved, much less. I take advantage of these remaining seconds, President, to remind you that today is seven months after the imprisonment of Jordi Turull, Carme Forcadell, Raül Romeva, Josep Rull and Dolors Bassa and that this anniversary is the biggest shame this country has, because having the political rival in prison should give you real shame. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Two issues. Firstly, when one does not speak first, in cases such as today's one, it happens that their speeches do not have originality, but, on the other hand, they often have unanimity; or issues such as today's one lead to almost all of us going to say the same thing. Secondly, I am not going to talk about gender-based violence today because we have had enough debate to do so. And I am not going to do it for a simple reason, because the People's Party is bringing us today a bill to implement measures against gender-based violence - and it may seem contradictory to say that I will not speak when the proposal refers to it - but we need to differentiate the text and the context. What's with the text? The text contains measures adopted, most of them, in the State Pact against Gender Violence - as others have already indicated - a pact involving all groups, not just the People's Party, and measures that most of them do not call into question, with the exception of any other. Therefore, the problem is not in the text, the problem is in the context. That's why I'm saying I'm not going to talk about gender-based violence. What is the context? When do you submit this proposal? You said that in June. One thing is when it was registered in the House, but when do they present it, when do they put it on the agenda? After a decree adopted by this House just a month earlier, it set out the measures to be taken. A royal decree that you voted in favour of your validation. And look what you said yourself in that validation - I quote your words -: Let us vote yes to this royal decree-law because we firmly believe that gender-based violence will not disappear if we do not maintain our unity in its total rejection and contempt. And finally, we will vote yes because the Socialist Government has rectified in its initial intention and the Royal Decree-Law will be treated as a bill, which will allow us to modify those proposals with which we do not agree. Obviously, I subscribe to your words from above and that is why it seems to me that what you are going to do today is not right about what you said. I say that you voted yes and that you argued with the words that I read you a decree that was asked to be treated as a bill, and indeed the Government has already announced that it is developing it, that it is developing it, and even to all of us, including you, explained to us the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Equality what the procedure is going to be, how you want that bill that comes from that decree to be developed. He explained to us the dynamics, the way in which it arises, how we can all amend, how we can go including those initiatives that seem appropriate to us, etc. Following such a decree, it is logical that any initiative be taken by the Government - as when you were in it - because when a decree is passed it is the Government that has to develop that measure. So why did they introduce him? Don't you think it's not overly elegant the movement you've made, that it doesn't make any sense, unless you want to make a political profit, I don't know which one and before I don't know who? I understand your interest and your need to make opposition, but these puppies give me that it's not worth anything. Do you intend to hang your medal against women who suffer from gender-based violence by leaving us to all other casts? Is that the target? Because they argue concepts - you yourself in your speech - that do not appear in the bill, saying those issues are not included. For that very reason, we are also waiting to be able to amend, to be able to include those issues which we believe are gaps and which do not appear in this proposal which the Government is going to make or which it has already made in the Decree-Law. It seems to me, therefore, that there has not been a fair play, regardless of whether we agree that issues such as trafficking or other issues about minors, etc., should or should not be included. You may think one way, others may consider that that should not be included there, even in the covenant it was said that certain measures must be included in other laws without having to be exactly in this law. But content is not the issue. It seems to me that the way you have done it is very important, and, as others have recalled, in other bills you are also doing the same. And what a coincidence, they were all in the wallet just about to come out! Therefore, we will not support the consideration of this bill. Gentlemen of the PP, we are not going to get it, you want to do favors to yourselves, to no one else. We're not even going to go in and question the content. As I said, I certainly agree with most of the issues. How can it not be so if, moreover, these are approaches that were made in the pact and that were adopted almost unanimously? Regardless of the logistical use used to get them in, that is not the issue. You have done some kind of filibusterism by bringing them in, and I'm not saying it's not legal, which is, of course, but it seems to me that we were all engaged, as you said using those same words when the royal decree was passed. You are the ones who have missed your word. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting us with a proposal for a law designed to amend and implement new measures against male-based violence. Although any step towards ending discrimination and violence against women should have the majority support of this House, this time we do not see it that way. Why am I saying this? Let me explain it to you. A year ago, in this chamber, we adopted the National Pact against Macho Violence. However, the People's Party Government was unable to provide it with funds to implement it. It had not been until a year later and after they had been removed from the Government when the measures had begun to be implemented. In addition, the Equality Commission is currently working on a draft law on urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence. It is there that they must submit their proposals, not in a new bill, that we would begin to deal with the presentation of the State Pact against Gender Violence after the end. That's funny, isn't it? Why now this initiative of the People's Party, when they have ruled for the past seven years? They had seven years to adopt initiatives in this area, but they did absolutely nothing to combat machismo. Taking this background into account, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya has serious doubts about the final objective of this bill. Perhaps it is a strategy of the People's Party to mislead the loser; perhaps they want to collapse the Equality Commission so that nothing is approved; perhaps they are not in favour of the national pact; perhaps they do not take this matter, which is extremely serious, as they should. You'll have to say that. If you really want to work, do it in the Commission and don't stifle the work we've all done so far. We ask you not to make this an electoral strategy game. We are already very late in this matter and the lives of many women are at stake, as we have seen today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u39	Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if it were not for the subject we are talking about to be really serious, I would think that this proposal you are making is a joke, because it seems like a joke of bad taste. A year and two months ago we approved the State Pact against Gender Violence, by the way without the votes of Podemos. For more than half a year we were, both my partner Patricia Reyes and I, calling for the subcommission to be launched and the measures that we had agreed on by most groups. You got in the way Rajoy, thinking that simply by letting time pass things would be arranged alone and everything would be set in motion, and the PP ladies, caught the bull; in fact, things did not get fixed, but they went to much worse, because the motion of censure arrived and, shortly after Sánchez was installed the Moncloa, came the Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Carmen Calvo, to appear at the subcommission and at that first appearance told us that she was going to make a decree to implement the measures of gender violence. [[applause]] Both my partner Patricia Reyes and I warned her that the way to implement the measures of the pact was not the decree and that it had to be treated as a bill. I do not want to tell you how you, ladies of the PSOE, put my partner and me in that Commission. Less insulting us, they told us everything: that we were illiterate, that we didn't know what we were saying and how it was going to be treated as a bill. Here we are, with the bill processed. [[Applauds]] Of course, when you made this bill you didn't do it as we would have wanted, but with the Sinatra doctrine, 'in its own way', patching up, which is what you like to do. And now we have three laws open at the same time: one, to implement measures against gender-based violence; the other, to improve the formation of the judiciary, by the way, in which they cheated and tried to screw us up an organic law for the issue of budgets, which seems to me to be an absolute disregard for all the women in this country and a unconstitutional question, and the third the proposal of a law for the reform of social security, of the pensions of orphans of gender-based violence. [[applause]] Do you not think, ladies of the PP, the laws that we have open to implement measures that must already be helping women? Ladies and gentlemen, in all cases the Members of the European Parliament have done our duty. We have tabled amendments to all the proposals that you have open. In particular, to the proposal for a law for the implementation of the urgent measures of the pact we have presented today almost forty measures, where are many of the things that the ladies of the PP want to introduce as a bill. Why? Because we believe that we must do so as soon as possible and that the situation of abused women must be improved. But what did the PP do? Instead of doing the duties and assuming that you have lost the Government, because it took and took and could have been you who put on this medal that you want to wear today, what you have done, instead of doing your duties and presenting the proposal as amendments, has been to present a proposal for a law which, as the rest of the groups have already told you, is to open one more front that will lead to further delaying measures that are absolutely urgent and necessary because, as has been said today, there is one more murder. We are not going to support your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the PP; we are not going to support your proposal because, in addition to looking for the photo, we believe that with this issue, what cannot be done is to extend the measures that are necessary not a minute more in time. We, I repeat, have done our duties. By the way, Mrs Sorlí, I would also not get a lot out of it, because you have your parliamentary group, which in the Valencian Community, for example, has only implemented 14% on 31 August of the budget they have for the care centres for women who have suffered gender-based violence and we are still waiting for them to carry out an audit to see what resources we have to have in Valencia. So I wouldn't take a lot of breasts out, I wouldn't take a lot of breasts out. [[Applauds]] Look, there are women and children who are having a very bad, very bad time, and we believe that what is needed is that with this we do not make political demagogy. If you have things to improve the bill that the Socialist Party has put forward, do what we have done, make some amendments and try to get the best bill out that can help the women and children of this country as soon as possible, because neither they nor their children nor the whole of society, as we do not, will forgive us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Ramos Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u41	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, another woman was killed again today, it was in Seville. In this intervention I was going to mention that the last murder had been on 20 October. However, we continue to add up. Really, we're tired. I am going to talk on this occasion, apart from his proposal for a law, about gender-based violence and male-based violence. In the second quarter of this year, 40,232 women victims of gender-based violence have been registered in the Spanish State. This year, 42 women have been killed by their partner or ex-partner, 32 minors have been orphaned and 27 children have been killed by sexist violence since 2013. If this were to happen to any other collective, all the alarms would have been dropped, the necessary mechanisms had been put in place to curb this violence, and these victims would be considered victims of terrorism. You who so much like to talk about state attacks, coups and victims of terrorism, these are victims of terrorism. But as women, this does not happen; and this does not happen because - as has been explained many times and is reflected in the State Pact, it is reflected in the Istanbul Convention, it is reflected in Law 1/2004 itself and also in its proposed law - violence against women is structural. This means that it is violence directed against women because of the same fact that it is. This also means that there is an institutional violence that must be combated and for which feminist laws are certainly needed. But we must also change political paradigms and generate awareness. Today the People's Group is presenting a bill that seeks both to get a positive headline on gender-based violence and to bombard what the headline gets. You are late and this is a characteristic that is very unique to you: you came late to equal marriage, you came late to the Abortion Act, and today you are presenting an amendment to the Gender Violence Act by taking a look at the work of the rest of the groups in this House. Worse still, as if you had not been eleven years the Government, eleven years without any progress, eleven years of very low funding, eleven years of discredit, eleven years of unprotected victims of gender-based violence and male-based violence. And in the continuum of paralysis with their years of government, they are proposing a reform of legislation on gender-based violence in all respects incomplete and far less ambitious than it should be. They seem to want more to block the measures of the state pact than to push it forward. From any point of view, it seems that his plan is, as he indicated at the beginning, a headline to cover the eleven-year shames of his Government's delay and, at the same time, boycott the work being done. I find it a shame to be dealing with gender-based violence and male-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the forms, which I hope is also the background. While it is true that they propose appropriate measures and interesting measures on the extension of Law 1/2004, or protection of the victim or recognition of the need for other laws against violence against women and sexual freedom, we see, however, that most of the measures of the State Pact are left out. We must remember that the State Pact includes 214 consensual measures, not to mention hundreds of other measures proposed by the experts and civil society who remained outside, which is why our group did not support the State Pact. We therefore find it modest - to put it elegantly - this proposal that your group is presenting right now because, long before seeking an effective agreement, it intends to be placed under the spotlight after years of not having taken the appropriate measures either from the legal or from the political point of view. What we currently need to bring this legislation forward is to sit down and work. We would have understood this if it had been left in a royal decree that only amended article 1, two transitional and four final ones, but this has become a bill; a bill where all necessary amendments can be submitted and, taking into account the State Pact and the proposed measures, more than twenty laws and regulations will have to be reformed. In addition, we want to say that we need to proceed without delay with our bill on measures for the comprehensive protection of sexual freedom and the fight against sexual violence, to which the Government has also committed itself, because we need profound and structural changes in relation to sexist violence and not makeup, as has happened with the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. There is also a need to reform Law 1/2004, but it is necessary to make all possible changes to include a change in the political and social paradigm, and the culture of rape must also be brought to an end. This, ladies and gentlemen, requires investment in education, health, communication, assistance and prevention. So please get to work, get to work with the rest of the parliamentary groups to make feminist laws, to move forward with a bill that reflects the consensus of the state pact, to process the law of our group on the integral protection of sexual freedom and the fight against sexual violence that this time does give an integral protection against all sexist violence. And let us repeat, let us work, we have managed to throw out Rajoy, we have made social budgets possible, we must make possible feminist laws so that there is not one less, because, ladies and gentlemen, this issue deserves much more than a headline. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramos Jordan. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vázquez, you have tried to present here some historical background, but what you have actually done has been to rewrite history. I will ask you a question: Do you know how many measures you have included in your proposal voted against in the X Legislature? Not less than 50%, so just lessons, huh? I repeat, lessons of justice. [[Applauds]] On the contents of the initiative brought by the People's Parliamentary Group for its admission to procedure we will not debate, because with the exception of the wording of Article 1 of Law 1/2004 - which, by the way, contravenes the literality of the agreements - are reforms designed and agreed by all the groups of the House in the state pact, are not their measures. You have merely copied and put into that text what we have agreed all the groups during a year of work. Here the question is why you are taking an initiative whose contents are going to be discussed in the coming weeks in the presentation of another law that is already in process, which is the law of urgent measures for the development of the pact against violence against women. If you have a real interest in minors, I will suggest one thing: unblock the processing of an initiative in relation to orphan's pensions. That's what they have to do next Tuesday. Let us see if we are able to unlock an initiative, a bill that has been in this House for a year and that we are not able to move forward. They have a chance now. [[Applauds]] What they have to explain is what the People's Party is pursuing by trying to double the parliamentary handling of these measures and what effects such a destitution would have. For citizens to understand, I would like to talk about some issues. First, what the anti-violence pact now needs is the diligence and speed that the previous Government did not know how to give it. Secondly, in order to give that rapid response, the Government of Pedro Sánchez processed some measures through a decree-law as urgent measures. Third, for the sake of consensus, this royal decree-law of urgent measures for the development of the pact was now processed as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Fourthly, which you yourself, Mrs González Vázquez, expressed from this very rostrum your vote in favour of this procedure because the procedure as a bill gave you - and I will quote you literally - the ability to improve the text so that it correctly reflects the proposals agreed upon by all groups within the pact. I close quotes. Five, which the Government held last Tuesday a meeting led by the Vice-President of the Government with the Follow-up Committee of the Pact, that is, with all the groups in the House. There it was agreed among all present, including the People's Group, a system that would allow the law to be presented with amendments in a unitary and joint manner, with all the reforms that the pact proposes, without prejudice to the fact that each group presents its own texts, as some of its Members have already indicated. The deadlines were: the sending of a government document with the general lines that was immediately forwarded - I mean, on the same day - to all the groups through the Chairman of the Follow-up Committee. It was also agreed that today, Tuesday, the texts of those amendments would be sent in their literality - you all have them in your e-mails - and that on Thursday the Government would hold a meeting with all groups to agree on how many of these reforms are presented jointly in order to maintain the consensus called for by the pact. [[shows a document]] Every step committed to that working meeting between the Government and the groups is being carried out with the diligence that others were never able to sustain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President of the Government has expressed, I believe, to the point of satiety, the vocation of consensus, but has placed as much emphasis on consensus as on urgency. It is therefore incomprehensible for them to present an initiative that includes measures that are already under way. It is good to know that each and every one of the measures you present are already included in the texts forwarded by the Government to the parliamentary groups. Therefore, admission to this initiative would only lead to duplicity in the processing and illogical, meaningless parliamentary work, as it would fall short of the fact that when the debate came to the presentation, the processing of these same measures would already be completed in another law. Our failure to deal with this text is a yes to dealing with the emergency channel which we all, including you, agreed last month and of loyalty to the agreements in the Committee on Follow-up to the Pact last week. The key to this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is whether or not we want to give urgency, whether or not we want to maintain unity and transfer the image of seriousness and responsibility that such a painful issue brings to Spanish society. Its initiative breaks precisely those three criteria. Your Honor, the week of September 25 this country was shocked by the murders, in just five days, of four women in the municipalities of Úbeda, Bilbao, Macarena and Torrox, and of two four- and six-year-old girls in Castellón. These were days of shock when society and ourselves demanded unity and speed. Well, twenty-eight days after these events we have not forgotten what Spanish society demands in this matter: unity and speed. That is what allows the processing that is already underway: urgency and joint work. What is the reason why the People's Party presents on the day this is agreed upon an initiative with the same contents? I think there are two answers: the first, that you had no other initiative in hand to cover your quota this week - that we're going to leave it to the investigative journalists, to see if you're going that way - and the second, that you're looking for subterfuges to break the consensus. There's no other explanation. We would prefer to think that this is the first thing, and that is precisely why we ask you to think that your initiative has a pernicious consequence of an intolerable delay in the times for the implementation of the measures of the pact. The repetition and collapse of the House with the processing of two initiatives of identical content is not the way. We will not support processing, not because of its content, but because it would be repetitive, repetitive and therefore technically unserviceable. The urgent need is for us to move forward with the Emergency Measures Act. Nothing that dilates the times is good for the victims. You have to add your work to the rest of the groups; all the Members who have preceded me have told you. Do it through processing; add to the only photo that is legitimate in this matter. Do you know what the only legitimate photo in this matter is? The one of consensual and unappealable unity to put a stop to the unity of machismo. We are certain - I conclude, ladies and gentlemen - that the objective of the law of urgent measures will not find obstacles or delays and, in this way, we will send the only decent message that we can send to the victims: that of unity, that of diligence and that of effectiveness. Your initiative does not comply with any of the three things, it does not satisfy any of these three issues. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u44	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress calling on the Government and its members to refrain from any public pronouncement, statements or actions that undermine the independence and legitimacy of the judiciary. Mrs Esteller Ruedas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to present on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party the reasons why we believe that interference by the Government in justice threatens the rule of law, democracy and the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. We affirm this by noting the relationship between decisions and statements made by the Government that undermine one of the fundamental pillars of democracy, such as the independence of the judiciary. The Minister of Justice began when she refused to defend the Supreme Court judge, Mr. Pablo Llarena, whom the independenceists accused of acting politically in order to violate the integrity and dignity of Spanish jurisdiction. This inaction has caused serious problems for the Spanish justice system, even after the correction. Then began a calculated chain of statements. The first was Minister Borrell - he did it in the BBC - questioning the judicial decisions and pointing out the desirability of politicians prosecuted in the trial not remaining in pre-trial detention until the trial was held. The delegate of the Government followed, showing her support for pardoning the independenceist politicians. The next day, President Calvo bet to take further action if the oral hearing was extended greatly. As a 'brave henchman' called independence those words. The controversy between Minister Batet and Councillor Ernest Maragall exacerbated the problem to see if it had actually been said that the minister would instruct the prosecution about the independence process. No one escapes that such statements contrary to judicial decisions respond to a strategy to influence public opinion and pressure the judiciary for political interest. But, in case that were not enough, in the control session of this House Congressman Tardà asked him and asked the President of the Government to withdraw the charge of rebellion if they wanted to have their votes in the budgets. This request reflects the totalitarian attitude of independence. But that is not the worst; the worst was the reply of the President of the Government, totally unworthy of a democratic President, who granted with his silence and at that time ratified those words. We have seen it throughout these days with the humiliating visit of Churches to Junqueras in prison. In these visits they continue to insist on the same idea and Junqueras once again said the same thing that Tardà said in this House; the worst was the ordago of Pablo Iglesias when he said: the government already knew what to do. Absolute contempt for the separation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is intolerable for the Government in a state of law to tell judges what they have to do and to press the Supreme before the trial for remaining in power takes place. It is a serious aggression against the rule of law, it undermines the separation of powers, it humiliates democracy, it puts at risk the coexistence and our system of rights and freedoms, and it paves the way for the independenceists to achieve their objectives, since their approaches are being legitimized with these attitudes. Don't forget that the independence challenge is to destroy our legal-political framework to delegitimize democratic institutions and a key piece is to attack the courts because it involves questioning our rule of law and the organization of the State; in doing so, the system falls and with it territorial integrity. That's why they pressure, coerce judges and prosecutors in Catalonia and besiege them in the courts to the extreme that forty-six judges have already left Catalonia because they have felt persecuted, but what response do they find in the government?, what does the minister say? Silence; at no time does it protect them and at no time does it defend them. Therefore, in this regard, we have doubts whether the Government really supports the judges who are in Catalonia. We know that independence wants impunity, but what does the Government want? Does it agree with impunity? We don't know; it depends on what one or the other says because when Sanchez talks and says he proposes that we let go of the judicial process and start talking about politics, what do you mean? Because the impunity of independence is not just that of those prosecuted by independence, it is the whole action of independence in Catalonia, it is the CDRs that cut us off from the streets, it is the CDRs that prevent us from doing certain actions. There is an absolute abandonment in Catalonia of the Catalans that we also feel Spanish; they are attacking us every day imposing their symbols and we are helpless; impunity for independence and helplessness and defencelessness of the Catalans that we feel Spanish and that we are in Catalonia. And those who have to defend us, the judges, the police, the security forces, are increasingly helpless because the Government does not protect them, but rather, with their attitude, it is becoming an accomplice to the independence process. We Spaniards don't deserve a government that can help the judges and protect the independenceists. Therefore, from the People's Party we say that there can be no impunity. I would like to recall the words of the President of the Supreme Court at the opening of the judicial year: When the Spanish Constitution is beaten, he cannot give up defending himself. And he continued: Subversion processes can have devastating effects on the internal peace of a State. In the face of this challenge, the Constitutional Court and the judiciary have protected our democracy. Justice has been up to it and has so far acted with complete independence in the defence of legality. Therefore, neither the Government nor any other power of the State should interfere in judicial proceedings. Let us stop acting in justice, their actions must be alienated from any political interest. We therefore propose to this House that, in the exercise of national sovereignty and in the defence of the powers of the State emanating from it, and in particular from the judiciary, it urge the Government to refrain from making any pronouncement, declaration or public action that undermines the independence of the judiciary. I ask the groups in this House to support this proposal because with their vote they will decide which side they want to be on, whether they want to be on the side of those who defend democracy, the rule of law, legality, the system of coexistence of rights and freedoms that we have all granted ourselves and, consequently, the unity of Spain, or whether they want to be with those who want to break the whole system of coexistence and be with the independenceists. That vote is decisive to know where everyone will be, because in Catalonia there will not be a solution without justice, because impunity for independence is a great blow and a great damage to the coexistence of all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteller Wheels. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the separation of powers is one of the pillars on which the democracies of countries with socio-liberal courts such as ours are based. It is obvious that not all political systems accept it or assume it, for example, in Cuba; neither is it respected in Venezuela, nor in the totalitarian Euskadi that the terrorists wanted, nor in the Republican Catalonia led by the CoR, either. In these reference models there is no separation of powers and the test of cotton is the control that the political power intends to exercise over justice. Perhaps that is why some of their leaders believe that they are legitimized to condition their work or, more seriously, demand that it be put at the service not of law enforcement or the common good but of their own exclusive political objectives. The grotesque episode of the lawsuit against Judge Llarena and the doubts that the Government transmitted to face it show, ladies and gentlemen, that the guard should not be lowered. Today, the extreme parliamentary weakness of the nation's government can force the coercion of its potential partners to pressure the judges in the most favourable direction for them. I don't recommend it to you, ladies and gentlemen. Catalan coupsmen did not fail to comply with an unfair law by following a democratic mandate - that is not so - but were voluntarily placed outside the law or, even more so, consciously against the law. That is why accepting as normal the pressure on the judges for the urgency and discomfort of those who acted in this way would be a grave mistake and delegitimizing their decisions as a price for their support would be an irresponsibility that we, ladies and gentlemen, do not wish or endorse. By paraphrasing Jefferson, the price of separation of powers is his eternal vigilance. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the separation of powers is indeed a pillar of democracy and I am therefore pleased to see a non-legislative proposal from the People's Party coming into this matter. That is why I read it with interest, but it immediately defrauded me not to find any allusion to the pressures that our judiciary could receive from the financial circuits, as we would be glad to know that it has not happened in the case of the Supreme Court ruling on the tax of documented legal acts and on which we certainly hope that the President of the General Council of the judiciary will come here voluntarily to offer explanations. Nor do they allude in their proposal to the need to neutralize those who are attributed the status of tuners of judgments and decisions of the prosecution, which is equally worrying. No, you in your proposal are only interested in the monotheme that haunts you, Catalonia, which, despite everything, you have not yet addressed politically. They seem to be concerned that members of the current Government reflect aloud on the situation of elected leaders who have been in prison for more than a year without even beginning their trial. They are very concerned about this reflection, I say, but little or no effective political action. But the worst part of this proposal is when they reproach the Government for trying to orchestrate a manoeuvre to create a public opinion contrary to judicial decisions. Here we are going back to the fact that the vague is foolish and the less information and opinion is passed on to it better, lest it be solvated. But you seem to continue to confuse the term 'rule' with that of'refrench' or, rather, use the word 'rule' in the sense of holding on to the reins of a horse that takes off, as would be that people, to see if they're going to maleate it and go where it shouldn't. The problem they have is that they have not yet digested the triumph of that healthy exercise of democracy that involved the motion of censure to Mr Rajoy and therefore think that the members of the government that emerged after it lack the legitimacy to get out of the aggressive and sterile discourse that you imposed when you ruled, that speech of palo and tentatieso that then wanted to favor in the streets that vomit 'A by them' directed paradoxically against people who wanted to keep themselves as part of us. No, ladies and gentlemen, the women and men of this country have a point of view, they were able to bear most of the provocations of those who only carry gasoline to the fires and now do not need shepherds to take them to the fold, what they need is active and intelligent politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the same Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. A Spanish saying says: Think of the thief that everyone is of his condition. And with this non-law proposal you put us black on white the practices of the People's Party, the group in the government until a few months ago. We will not vote in favour of a non-law proposal that we do not believe because it seems cynical to us. We would have liked these proclamations to have been made to you in order to avoid, for example, the judicialization of politics, the interferences of the PP government denounced by Judges for Democracy in February 2018. To avoid the massive scandal that allowed an expired Constitutional Court to pronounce the ignominious ruling of the Statue, the very Constitutional Court that you have endowed with an executive force that it did not have to be able to execute sentences to the extent, of course, of you. To avoid the very grave scandal over the leaks regarding the appointment of trusted prosecutors of the People's Party. Or to avoid Operation Catalonia, in which leaks appeared or prosecutors appeared who fine-tuned actions, or even to invent a false account of violence in order to be able to accuse the independenceist political leaders of rebellion, so that they could ultimately remove them from their seats won in democratic elections imposed by an ignominious 155. You stand up as defenders of a kind of judicial independence that we're not going to buy you. You, who pressured companies in Catalonia - recently recognized and appeared in the press - to leave the Catalan territory and then accuse the independence leaders of having caused this aggravation. You, who manipulate and who, in the face of the objectivity of judgments handed down in European courts, agree, strive to make invented accounts, all to ensure the unity of Spain. And you know why? Because they are unable to show an attractive offer for Catalonia that can be voted on because they honestly have nothing to offer, a state that cuts freedoms and has at the foot of horses at the highest courts. Therefore, no, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are debating a non-law proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group calling on the Government and its members to refrain from public statements or proceedings in respect of the case that is being pursued in the Supreme Court against Catalan independenceist politicians because those statements, according to the People's Parliamentary Group, undermine the independence and legitimacy of the judiciary. We said at last week's plenary session, on the occasion of another motion by the People's Parliamentary Group calling again for the application of article 155, that we did not consider that there had been a coup d'état in Catalonia or the crimes of rebellion and sedition, and that pre-trial detention was an abuse of law. The so-called Catalan question is a constitutional crisis around the national identity of Catalonia, its vocation of self-government and its democratic decision-making of its future; it is a political problem, such as that which arises with Basquedi and its national identity, which is also having judicial derivations, a political problem which highlights historical singularities of politically demanding cultural nations, a political problem which has not been approached politically, but with the application of the force of the State until the arrival of the President of the Government of Mr Sánchez, which has meant a new approach since the dialogue on this matter, a matter of flagrant political and social significance with judicial derivations, as he said, and which involves for the judge or judges of the process the judgment of public opinion and published because, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic State is a system of public opinion, as Berzosa López points out, in which the expression of respect for judicial independence does not preclude the right to express his opinion, and also to criticize, the result of judicial resolutions and the techniques of their adoption, as Mr Pasqual Sala recently pointed out. And abounding in this line, Don Pablo Lucas Murillo de la Cueva points out that subjection to public scrutiny is a condition inherent in the exercise of the judicial function and the publicity of the judicial process and is part of the responsibility that belongs to those who are holders of public authorities, fulfilling an essential role to face to this public judgment the motivation of judicial decisions and the prudence in their public demonstrations to avoid the appearance contrary to independence and impartiality, behavior in which Mr Llarena has not been singularly jealous and is therefore prosecuted in Belgium. With regard to the motivation of your resolutions, I would like to point out that there are legions of jurists, including the aforementioned Pascual Sala, who see it almost impossible for the crime of rebellion to exist and not for sedition, but also for pressures to help solve political problems. In view of this panorama of a political conflict, we wonder whether it is reasonable to prevent the Government from showing its concern for it and expressing it in a way shared with a large part of the public opinion and the legal community. Finally, I must point out that this House, and precisely because of the separation of powers, does not have among its powers to replenish the independence of the judiciary, either ex officio or ex officio, if any of its members are disturbed or disturbed. This remedy is, if requested by a judge or magistrate, the responsibility of the General Council of the Judiciary, as stated in article 14.1 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u55	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a preview: highlighting an intervention that I believe is mythical of Salvador Armendáriz, of Union del Pueblo Navarro. I know it's terrible that I'm not, but I'd like to put it in value because in a minute and a half you've compared Catalonia with Cuba, with Venezuela, with tyranny from all over the world and cited Jefferson as a great patriot, I understand that practically similar to Cid Campeador, when everyone knows that Jefferson was one of the founding fathers of the United States and one of the authors of his Declaration of Independence. [[Applauds]] So I would like to welcome Mr Armendariz's great speech and the resignation of his police director, who has insulted Ada Colau and me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] So today, you, gentlemen of the PP, urge us all to refrain from making statements or public actions that undermine the independence of the judiciary and thus avoid pressures that cause influence on public opinion and, in turn, on the judiciary. You, the PP. Well, then memory and hemerotheque. 'I have a prosecutor of confidence in Palau; we can't go to the police.' Does that ring a bell? Certainly not; said Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, her partner, at that time senator and president of the People's Party of Catalonia; told María Álvarez in a conversation in La Camarga in June 2013. It doesn't seem to me to have much to do with judicial independence saying, 'I have a trusted prosecutor; we can't go to the police.' Casually, Barcelona's Judgement No. 21 banned the broadcast of that recorded conversation; casually. 'This the prosecution tunes it to you - that is more famous and surely sounds more to them - we make a management.' Does that ring a bell? Neither? It is from Jorge Fernández Díaz, Minister of the Interior, to Daniel de Alfonso in the office of the ministry; June 2016. Occasionally, the prosecution considered this conversation to be an irrelevant exchange of information; it certainly has nothing to do with judicial independence. 'Who has made it possible for the independenceists for the first time to stop joining an election, who is it? Mariano Rajoy. Who has made that today Republican Left, Junts per Catalunya and the rest of the Independenceists do not have leaders because they are decapitated? Who? Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party'. Does that ring a bell? Don't you? Neither? [[Applauds]] Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, Vice President of the Government, said at a meeting in Girona in December 2017. Casually, Llarena, that adalid of impartiality and the separation of powers, again prevented Junqueras and his company's provisional release days later. Holders - not to mention statements only -: 'PP and PSOE - because in this they are quite together for the last forty years - again block the depoliticization of the General Council of the Judiciary'. He is one of El Mundo's few suspects; January 16, 2018. And you don't have to go that far, just seventy-two hours ago - the biggest national shame of recent times, and there's been a lot -: The Supreme Court derails and paralyzes the effect of the ruling on mortgage taxes in favor of banking and against citizenship. And you come to me here to try to give lessons of separation of powers when everyone knows that that night, two days ago, according to who called according to who to paralyze this. Do you really want to give me lessons from that? And yet - it won't give me time - I haven't talked about your James Bond, Villarejo; I haven't talked about Villarejo. Have some shame and stop putting on these shows. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián Romero. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I have the honor of quoting a friend. On Friday, our colleague Mr Fernando Navarro published an article entitled 'Democracies in danger', in which he wondered how democracies die from Levitsky's reflection on how authoritarian and poorly democratic tics emerge in some leaders who have come to power through the ballot box, but who once there are dedicated to dismantling all control systems, all the counterweights that prevent them from doing and undoing at will. [[The lady]] In the case of our populism and nationalism, this strategy does not seem new, that of taking advantage of the system's entry mechanisms to destroy it from within. In all these derivatives, a common factor is to undermine the authority of the judges, to practise harassment and to overthrow the independence and legitimacy of the judiciary. This is the underground but real danger that lies under the declarations, pronouncements or actions that try to pressure or influence our Administration of Justice, undermining the independence of one of the three powers of the State, attacking our separation of powers, the basic pillar of our democracy. And if that is done by elected governors of the polls, I wonder what they will not be able to make rulers who reach power through a motion of censure agreed with the nationalists and the populists. [[Applauds]] I refer to the facts. Mr Sánchez's government has left us pearls as undemocratic as the following: If the trial is delayed, it would not be logical to keep the pre-trial detention. These are the words of the Vice-President of the Government. As if the risk of escape and the possible destruction of evidence or the danger of recidivism had more to do with the logic - that of Mrs Calvo, I understand - than with the legal and procedural principles governing jurisdictional activity. Another appointment: It would be better if there were no prisoners to be able to do politics in Catalonia. These are the words of Minister Batet. Here I would almost agree if it weren't for an important hue: better than not having prisoners it would have been that there had been no crime. Obviously, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of Esquerra, gentlemen of the PDECAT, if there had not been a coup d'état in Catalonia it would be much easier to do politics, but if we do not comply with the law, we have to face the consequences, because outside the law is only the jungle, and in the jungle there is no politics. [[applause]] At this point, I want to break a spear in favour of all the judges, judges, prosecutors, lawyers and officials working in our administration of justice, doing commendable work every day, always handling great workloads, with few material and human means. I would also like to refer briefly today to the principle of immediacy, a principle which governs judicial action and which obliges judges to be present at the proceedings, to maintain during the proceedings direct contact with the parties during the practice of evidence which allows them to assess them conscientiously. When I no longer say a Government, but anyone pronounces on a sentence, in the worst of cases we do so without having read it whole and in the best of cases we do so by forgetting that principle. We're forgetting that the judge was there, that the judge listened to the parties, that he valued the first-hand evidence. It is this knowledge and appreciation that allow, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, proposers in this initiative, that Gürtel's judgment contain statements such as this: The credibility of these witnesses is called into question - they refer to Mr Arenas, Mr Álvarez-Cascos, Mr Rajoy, etc. - whose testimony does not appear to be credible enough. You come here today with an initiative that is summed up in the saying 'I sell advice that I don't have', which Mr Rajoy liked so much, since during his government there were also sound statements and pronouncements that attacked the independence of the judiciary. [[applause]] For example, Ms. Cospedal, former Minister of Defense, was pleased with the above-mentioned sentence, describing the paragraph that I have read to you as very unlegal and very tendentious; it was not the word of law, she came to say, she even came to wonder: is it that the judges are infallible? Or the pearl that Mr Catalá left us, when he said that: everyone knows that this judge has some unique problem. This is intolerable. So, do your ladies and gentlemen know how the independence and legitimacy of the judiciary is safeguarded? Firstly, respecting the deliberations and judgments of the courts and, secondly, voting in favour of and implementing initiatives that citizens bring to this House, such as that of support for public servants in Catalonia - in the competition published yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, there are four judges from Catalonia; there are already forty-six judges who have left since the beginning of the process in September 2017; as our law of strengthening judicial independence to depolitize your governing body, yes, that which you are distributing again; or as our law to strengthen the autonomy of the prosecutor's office with respect to the government and its parliamentary election to guarantee precisely that autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not have a truly independent judiciary, as the Greek, the Group of States against Corruption, repeatedly asks, our judges will not be able to administer justice in accordance with the constitutional mandate: independently, irremovably, responsibly and subject only to the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u58	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the People's Party, we are really amazed and outraged. If anyone is responsible for the deplorable state of judicial independence and its perception among citizens and between the judges and magistrates themselves, it is the People's Party. It is the People's Party - although it is true that with the connivance for many years of the Socialist Party - that has allowed and often encouraged the infection of the worst politics within the judiciary, its members and its own council. What alone have we been denouncing the use of judges for the repression of political criticism; what alone have we been denouncing the criminalization of the territorial crisis in Catalonia; what alone when the spokesmen of the People's Party marked the way for judges to intervene in these and other processes. Only with the citizenry, witnessing astonishments to the many times in which the former Minister Catalá recognized and agreed with the accused in judicial proceedings the designations of high offices of the judiciary, as happened in the Lezo case; alone with the citizenry, seeing the different presidents of the Constitutional Court hide their affiliation to the People's Party to the point of collaborating with that party in laws such as the infamous labor reform, whose constitutionality they had to prosecute; alone with the citizenry, seeing how judges and judges were placed not already close or related, but true supporters of FAES and the People's Party in judicial proceedings in which their party, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party was in progress. To hear you speak today of undermining the independence of the judiciary is truly amazing, when it is you who have designed to your liking in recent years a General Council of the judiciary that has starred in the most embarrassing moments of the judicial current of this country. According to the report published by the European Commission in 2017, Spain lags behind the perception of judicial independence by citizens. Two thirds of the judges are of the opinion that in Spain the judicial career is not based on merit and capacity but on proximity to the judicial leadership and political power. That is undermining the independence of the judiciary. I suppose you have forgotten that in 2013 the People's Party took advantage of the absolute majority in this House to commission Mr. Lesmes and Mr. Díez-Picazo a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that would allow a model of government of judges deeply personalistic and autocratic. The so-called Gallardón reform was dedicated to undermining the constitutional collegiality of the body by creating first, second and third vowels depending on its relevance, simply to control at its will the dome of the Judiciary. Without the slightest concealment, Mr Lesmes immediately appointed - for the scandal of the entire judicial career - his friend Díez-Picazo to preside over the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, instead of extending the previous president, Mr Sieira. That is undermining the independence of the judiciary. Not to mention the last incident in which Mr Díez-Picazo himself has been involved - really symptomatic of the health of judicial independence in this country - who, after passing a ruling of the Supreme Court, has been able to circumvent all the procedural and legal security principles to review the sentence without indecentness, simply because he forced the banks to assume the payment of a tax that undoubtedly corresponds to them. Yesterday, Mr Lesmes met urgently with the judges who handed down that sentence, a sentence now subject to the doctrinal review ordered by Mr Díez-Picazo for the next 5 November. To further undermine the independence of the judiciary, yesterday the newspaper Infolibre discovered that Mr. Díez-Picazo was until a few months ago a professor at the College of University of Financial Studies, a school owned, by chance, by the Spanish Banking Association. In order to solve this discredit, we have already announced from here that we have filed a complaint today for prevarication against Judge Díez-Picazo. [[Applauds]] There is no precedent for a plenary session to be convened after a judgment has been handed down just because it may harm a particular sector, the banks. Of course, the judgment has an economic and social impact, but a favourable impact on taxpayers in this country. The needs of the Administration of Justice cannot be confused with the economic needs of a private sector, banking. Well, this is the system of government of the judiciary that we must banish from this country. That's why we've been away from the Covenant for Justice for a long time, that's why we've tabled a bill to repeal Organic Law 4/2013, on Reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, that's why in recent days we've proposed and agreed to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary to change the personalistic system of the General Council of the Judiciary and to promote the election of senior judicial officials through transparent systems of merit and capacity. That is why we want the renewal of the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary not to be an exchange of chromosomes between the People's Party and the PSOE. We will only participate - we have already insisted from this rostrum - if it is to name the best, those who gather merit and capacity. We said it the other day: don't count on us for more of that kind of compositions. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that judicial independence is much more than a democratic value; it is essentially a subjective right of all citizens, not a private right of judges and magistrates. People have the right to have judges who respond to laws and democracy, not to political or sectoral interests. Gentlemen of the PP, what do you want us to tell you, of course we will vote no, this time and all those who still lack the respect, memory and intelligence of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u60	For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are debating, as we have heard over the last few minutes, a non-law proposal by the People's Party calling for the House's interest in the members of the Government and the Government abstaining from public pronouncements, statements or actions that could undermine the independence or legitimacy of the judiciary. For this purpose, it is requested that the Government or members of the Government refrain from making pronouncements on ongoing proceedings, from making statements on the judges or magistrates themselves who make these decisions, on provisional situations of precautionary measures, of a personal or real nature, or on possible convictions and their consequences. I take it - I have read it carefully - that they are referring exclusively to the members of the Government, because it would only be necessary to review this weekend's hemerotec to see how many leaders of their party have been warmed up. Fighting for judicial independence is an extremely important issue and I have heard too many things here that go away from what is truly judicial independence, non-interference in the judicial sphere when it comes to making decisions. I've talked a lot throughout my life about judicial independence and I think it's never much longer. I have done this since my profession, I have done it at the General Council of the Judiciary, in universities, in national and international forums. There are two basic issues: one, knowing what judicial independence is, because I believe, after hearing some interventions, that someone has doubts, and two, when it is disturbed and when it is undermined. No one should doubt that independence is one of the cornerstones on which our democratic and rule of law State is based. That is why our Constitution establishes in a title, the VI, the only one they call power, Judicial Power, where it establishes and points out what justice is and where it emanates from. Justice emanates from the people and is administered by independent judges - here we have it -, immobile, responsible and subject only to the rule of law. These are the two basic notes: independence and subject only to the rule of law. So, what is judicial independence? It is a guarantee of the impartiality of our judges. But really the interest is not there. The question of the million is how it is disturbed, how judges are pressured to change the meaning of their resolutions, which must be subject only to the rule of law. Look, you base your writing on two blocks: one, the actions of the Minister of Justice in order to defend Judge Llarena and, two, a series of manifestations that have been reported here in a profuse way, thus saving the scarce auditorium its repetition. Neither has anything to do with judicial independence. You may like more or less certain statements, you may like more or less the person who makes them, but in no case do you constitute an attack on judicial independence. Believe me, no judge in this country - and there is one in this House - would feel undermined in his independence by hearing those statements that politically it would be better if we had the prisoners released, if we had the defendants released, a pronouncement on a hypothetical conviction... Look, our judges, our judicial career isn't so easy, it's not so fragile. I can assure you that we have one of the most powerful judicial careers in our environment and therefore know how to endure what are nothing but statements. Moreover, the rulings of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights - I am thinking of the Sunday Times of 26 April 1979 - have already told us what parallel trials meant, which is a complicated question of articulating freedom of expression and non-interference in the judicial sphere. And you know what they told us? What we have to learn is to live with it. And don't be so afraid of judges that judges have mechanisms to sustain this amparo. And who gives this protection? The General Council of the Judiciary. It gives me the feeling that there has not been much reading of these agreements; we have stayed in the newspapers, but we have not entered what it really means when a particular judge is being harassed. For the General Council of the Judiciary in numerous resolutions always pronounces itself in the same way: freedom of criticism gives life to our democracy, as the Constitutional Court says. Therefore, it is good that there are political discrepancies, because that constitutes a free and sound public opinion. And what's not admissible? When there is harassment of the judge that determines his or her judicial decision. Do you really believe that any of the manifestations you invoke in your writing can undermine judicial independence? Please give more value to the judicial career and its pronouncement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u62	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SOCIAL AND LABORAL PROTECTION OF MOTORS LIVED FROM AN ORGAN. [[File number 162/000391]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u63	Continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the social and labour protection of a body's living donors. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin this speech, allow me to greet, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the representatives of the Federation of Live Live Transplants and the Association of Live Donors present in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, organ donation is one of the acts that constitutes the greatest expression of altruism and generosity that the human being is capable of doing. The status of organ donor has the corresponding social recognition of citizenship in general, but there are legal situations that negatively affect these people who, through their actions, offer us extraordinary lessons of commitment and solidarity with others, either by family ties or by an extraordinary sense of solidarity with unknown people. This is the case with living donors. It is a collective whose gestures we applaud, but who, paradoxically, suffers a situation of job vulnerability or potential risk of absence of legal coverage that should correspond to the extreme generosity inherent in the act of organ donation. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, as estimated in the World Health Organization's Global Observatory on Donation and Transplantation, only 10% or less of the people who needed it were transplanted in 2015, reflecting a global situation of organ shortage. Currently, waiting lists grow and long waiting times are generated during which patients deteriorate or die, especially those who, because of their individual characteristics, such as children, are less likely to have the right organ. But in Spain, thanks to the establishment of the NTA Transplant Coordination Network in 1989, there has been a shortage of donors who have died in the past 30 years in a more effective way than the rest of the world by achieving the highest donation rates in the world on a sustained basis. Donation of a kidney or liver portion is usually the most widely applied form of solid organ transplant of a living donor in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-legislative proposal submitted by the Socialist Group to the House seeks to put an end to a situation as unfair as it is incomprehensible, which is being suffered by living donors, whose current employment situation can come to fruition in situations of manifest labour and health defence. Medical transplant teams in charge of donor care estimate that the average recovery time is about four weeks in the case of a kidney donor and twelve weeks in the case of a liver donor, provided that there are no possible complications that would obviously increase the recovery time, as well as some variability depending on the characteristics of the job that the donor performs and that in many cases it would require adaptation. The amendment to article 169 of the current General Law on Social Security, which, according to its current wording, does not provide for the possibility for living donors to benefit from the situation of temporary incapacity or loss of work in the event of health problems arising from the organ donation process to which they are subjected, should therefore be dealt with immediately. They are also denied the possibility of receiving the corresponding economic remuneration for work losses, a fact which compels living donors to make such donations in periods corresponding to the enjoyment of their holidays. In this regard, we must not forget that the transplantation of living donors can be carried out in a programmed way, allowing the right time to be chosen for both the donor and the recipient. In addition, the most common relationship between the donor and the recipient is that of a spouse or sentimental couple, followed by different types of relationship, family in the first degree, other type of family relationship and between friends. Ladies and gentlemen, this House is morally committed to putting an end to a situation such as the one described, which, apart from legal considerations, can be described as a real regulatory hypocrisy, because, on the one hand, we applaud the living donors of organs and encourage, through advertising campaigns, the donation, on the other hand, the public administration does not stimulate, but potentially burdens, the acts with which these people offer lessons of exemplaryness, altruism, solidarity and generosity. Moreover, it is clear that the current wording of Article 169 lends itself to a restrictive interpretation, stating that temporary incapacity requires the alteration of health resulting from illness or accident, thus leaving the living donors of bodies excluded from the figure of low work for illness and, consequently, the economic remuneration envisaged for such an assumption. However, the aggravation situation affecting living donors does not end in the above-mentioned assumptions, but also affects them in terms of assets, because the living donor is subject to an increase in premiums when hiring or renewing health care insurance, as well as life insurance and bank loan lines. The donation of live animals has a positive impact not only on transplanted patients but also on their family, social, transplant waiting lists and health expenditure. In order to be able to carry out this type of transplantation, the donor is voluntarily subjected to several diagnostic tests to ensure its suitability and to a major, not risk-free surgery, in which a vital organ is extracted and which requires hospitalization and a recovery period. I know that many groups are going to tell me that this initiative that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing today has come, been discussed, debated and approved in the Health Committee, but there has been a substantial change, there has been a change of government, and the Socialist Government wants to show today, through this parliamentary group, its sensitivity and its commitment to resolving something that is inevitably a flagrant injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repair this incomprehensible and unjustified situation by recognizing and validating with the necessary legal coverage the exemplary attitude of the living donors and pave the way for the people waiting for the reception of organs to recover the levels of lost health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u65	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Igea Arisqueta is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Raya, welcome to the fantastic world of the GNP of the Government of Dignity, that world of good wishes, of good; that world that does not cost money; the world of the Official Gazette of the Courts, not of the Official Gazette of the State; that world where everything is possible; that world that looks so much like the Echenique VAR. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It is the world that so much liked the unworthy government, which you said, of Mr Rajoy, but in which you also live. You spoke of normative hypocrisy, and the truth is that this is a matter in which, in fact, there seems to be abounding normative and non-regulatory hypocrisy. We talk about between 300 and 400 people a year - many more than they are sitting on these seats right now - who risk their lives to give life to others. We speak of true dignity, of worthy people. This is such an important matter that in this parliamentary term, in April 2017, the People's Group presented in the Senate a non-legislative proposal virtually identical to this one, in which his spokesman in that House, Mr Martínez Olmos, said exactly the following: Our group will not be able to support the People's Group's initiative, because we consider it insufficient. What we transfer here is the protection of the live donor, not only to ensure that it can be a cause of temporary incapacity when making the donation, but also to ensure that it is not an objective cause of dismissal. Therefore, a regulatory change is necessary and this is the approach to which we wanted to contribute with our motion. I have no doubt of your will, but I sincerely believe that in politics we all have to make an effort - you too - and commit ourselves in writing to the decisions we take. That was his spokesman in the Senate in April 2017. Subsequently, our group, in order to correct this deficit, submitted a new GNP to the Health Committee, which was unanimously adopted, which included promoting the regulatory amendments to Decree 2/2015 in order to prevent this circumstance from causing dismissal. As I say, this initiative was unanimously adopted, and the words of her spokesman in that Commission, Mrs Alconchel, were as follows: The motion in the Senate - what has been said publicly - has given much hope to a lot of people who feel frustrated by the government's inaction, because nothing has been done, legislation has not been changed, and the truth is that it is surprising that with the speed of labour reform to cut rights, it takes so long to protect the labour rights of living donors. Stop being indolent about this serious situation. These were the words of his spokesman. In view of this situation, two GNPs later, what does the Government of Dignity bring us here today? What brings us here today? Another GNP. They don't bring us a decree, they bring us a PNL. Gentlemen of the PSOE, don't these gentlemen deserve a decree? They only deserve a PNL? Isn't there a bill for them? Isn't there an urgent decree for them? Haven't you been able to do anything else in all these months? [[Applauds]] I will not address you because you have already shown what you are capable of; I will address your vice-president, Mr. Iglesias, who is not here today. There are people in this country - up there - who want to talk to you, people who don't run away from justice, people who aren't in Brussels, people who aren't in jail, people who really are decent people. [[Applauds]] Make them a niche in your agenda, an agenda in which you should deal with these heroes; because these heroes really deserve a decree, they really deserve a more worthy treatment of this government of indignity. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u67	Thank you very much. Mr De Arriba Sánchez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u68	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish model of organ donation and transplantation is one of the main arguments why our National Health System is considered a model to follow around the world and a nuclear asset of our welfare state. Year after year we revalidate the world leadership in donation and organ transplants, a position that Spain has occupied continuously for twenty-six years and which demonstrates the great resolutive capacity of the Spanish transplant system, improving its results even in especially difficult years. Last year we hit our own record by reaching 46.9 donations per million population, with a total of 2183 donors who made possible the realization of 5229 transplants, reaching historical peaks in kidney, liver and lung transplantation. Listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen, listen well: six people in Spain donate organs every day, making it possible to carry out fourteen daily transplants; the number of donors has increased by 30% in our country over the past three years; we are the only country in the world that has more than one hundred transplant patients per million inhabitants. These data, ladies and gentlemen, what do they mean? They mean that for twenty-six years the Spanish that needs a transplant has been the luckiest citizen on the planet, the most likely to achieve it and, moreover, within a public and universal system; that our society is nourished by anonymous people and families who are the real protagonists and that day after day, in an altruistic way, they make us a more supportive society and a more generous society. It means that the cornerstone of our health system, our main asset, the healthcare professionals, have an extraordinary level of competence, to which we owe all our gratitude and gratitude. In short, it means that the Spanish transplant system is an achievement of the entire Spanish society and of all the institutions involved in the process, and that we have been able to unite efforts with the aim of saving or improving the quality of life of thousands of patients. In fact, it is due to a management model, the capacity for innovation, the work of national, autonomous and hospital coordination carried out by the National Organization of Transplants since 1989. Since then, numerous initiatives and programmes have been developed with which to stimulate the donation, which have consolidated Spain as the country of the transplants; a circumstance whose momentum, whose continuity were priority for the previous Government and for the People's Party. It was prioritized through measures such as those envisaged in the National Strategic Plan for Donation and Transplants of Organs 2018-2022 and Plan 50×22, presented last April, with the aim of reaching fifty donors per million population and exceeding the figure of 5,500 transplants in the next five years. One of the lines set out in this plan is the donation and transplantation of organs from live donors. The ONT has been working decisively for years to boost live donation and to a greater extent in the kidney. In recent years, however, we have seen a gradual decline in this activity and its causes are diverse. The comprehensive protection of the live donor must be improved economically and socially. Although the regulations state that the conduct of the medical procedures related to the procurement will not be burdensome for the live donor, in practice the live donation is not economically neutral for donors, nor are there other administrative mechanisms that compensate for other potential losses or protect the donor in its socio-labor environment. The architect and responsible for the Spanish model of transplants, the for many years director of the ONT, Dr Rafael Matesanz, a little over a year ago, in the Health Commission of this parliamentary seat, told us: 'If in a country, if in a hospital, if in a community it is donated less..., the population is never to blame, it is something that we have done wrong'. In order to reverse this trend and increase the donations of live organs, from greater social and labour protection of the donor himself, as well as from full respect and compliance with the provisions of Royal Decree 1723/2012, we understand this initiative as an opportunity for improvement, we agree again on its objective, as we already did by agreement of all the parliamentary groups in the Health Commission last March and, moreover, through the amendment presented, we believe that the relevant legal amendments should be made to increase the socio-laboral protection of the live donor by equalizing their protection, matching the protection that is granted during the process of extraction of the organ and its subsequent recovery, to the one currently established for pregnant women during pregnancy and postpartum. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of workers has always been a priority for our parliamentary group, and it is more so when we talk about health. I'm done, President. We are convinced that there are many things that if we do them together, we will do them better and for the benefit of all. The real dimension of our country and our welfare state is the awareness that there is a space in which responsibility and solidarity merge with the conviction that nothing that happens to each Spanish, to each and every one, is alien to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u69	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. While, as mentioned earlier, there are more agile formulas for resolving and resolving this issue, it is very interesting to see the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Socialist Group and defended by Mrs Raya Rodríguez to urge the Government to promote different legal actions in order to promote the socio-occupational conditions of the living organ donor, since the absence of work resulting from previous medical tests and the drop in post-donation work cause problems, even dismissal. It would mean, moreover, to correspond to an exemplary act of solidarity and to deepen the already extraordinary Spanish model of organ transplantation, which has been for decades an admiration of the whole world thanks, in addition to the generosity of the Spaniards, to the work of the National Organization of Transplants. Unlike the donation made after the death of a person, the living donor of organs and tissues comes up with problems of a work nature that add more difficulty to an already complex process. It is not just a matter of sick leave, it is that, as has been repeated here, there is a risk of job loss, which in an advanced society such as ours, and with the difficulty of finding a job, does not seem to be a receipt. Dr. Rafael Matesanz, who has just been recalled in this rostrum, a historic director of the ONT, and a person whose career gives him absolute moral authority to talk about these issues, demanded in his last public intervention, before retiring last year 2017, that legislative measures be taken to provide social and labour protection to the living donor and prevent him from being fired during the donation process. Some organizations, such as the Spanish Association for Helping Children with Hepatic and Transplanted Diseases, have promoted support campaigns that have been massively supported for greater coverage for the figure of the living donor and, therefore, also for the removal of barriers and obstacles to safe subscriptions and certain coverages. The former Government was already working through the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Employment, together with different scientific societies, to resolve this issue. You'll have to finish it without delay. The non-legislative proposal is therefore relevant and will have the favourable vote of the Forum. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u71	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed this initiative by the Socialist Group cannot provoke any kind of objection to any of the parliamentary groups on the substantive issues; we are proposing an improvement in the social protection of living donors, a demand from the National Transplant Organization, which has been raised on various occasions in this House by other parliamentary groups and which responds to a certain objective fact, namely the problems, the difficulties that some of these people have in terms of employment who make this generous and altruistic act of donating an organ. And in a model of success, such as the model of donation in the Spanish State, which is based precisely on that generosity and altruistic character of donors, if we find that there are problems in this area - long postoperative periods, previous appointments with the person who is going to receive the organ that goes in charge of the donor, in a context that at some point seemed to diminish the number of donors - it is reasonable that we raise this improvement and hence that all the political groups are expressing a consensus on the substantive issue. What does not stop causing us all a certain perplexity or irritation is that, being an initiative of the group which today bears the responsibility of the Government, it does not translate it into a proposal not of law, but rather a legislative text, a bill or an amendment in a parliamentary procedure, etc. The Socialist spokesman said at the end of her speech - and it seemed reasonable to me - that what they are doing is showing the sensitivity of the Socialist Group in this matter. Welcome. I believe that we all have sensitivity, but what we have to demand from you today is not that you show us your sensitivity, but that you are able to make those legal changes that make it possible, because for some time now that demand exists, it is approved by the Courts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will count on our support, as it cannot be otherwise, because we share your sensitivity, but we demand that you immediately proceed to the legislative changes that show that sensitivity really serves to change things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u74	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a living donor and not another is the person who, meeting the requirements set out in Royal Decree 1723/2012, surrenders part of his organs or tissues, in a safe and compatible way with his life. It will do so for reasons of kinship, altruism or cross-interest, as explained by the non-law proposal and it will do for those non-essential renewable tissues, such as the bone marrow, kidneys, blood or liver lobes, which will enable those who are recipients or recipients of this donation to survive or improve their quality of life. Apart from various problems, including ethical ones, which are the subject of this debate, the GNP faces a concrete fact, that of the socio-laboral and property consequences for these living donors; people who, in any case, are characterized, as the non-law proposal also points out, by a qualification that is that of altruism, which in turn motivates a reflection. Such generous conduct cannot be penalized and it is for the public authorities to remove practices, conduct or legal consequences which we consider undesirable and which we claim to be incompatible with the legal order. So far our part in absolute agreement with the proposal and, from here on, criticism. There are a number of measures proposed by the non-legislative proposal. The amendment of Article 169 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act to make the donation a specific disability issue, with which we certainly agree. However, it also moves us to reflect: what about those who are not active? The second, that such a situation does not entail penalties for the hiring or renewal of insurance or loans, with which we also agree, but what economic consequences does such an obligation entail for the insurance sector and what kind of compensation can they require? But not only are these, there are more measures, some have been mentioned, such as that the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute could be amended, in particular articles 52 on the causes of dismissal, or article 53, which gives rise to the nullity of dismissal; but also law 31/1995 to provide for specific measures to prevent occupational risks that allow the reintegration into their posts of those who have been donors, ensuring their safety and health at work. These and other various measures could be possible implementation and that is what in some way, as other speakers have mentioned, says the non-law proposal that could be made but that does not. In our view, it is the element to be criticized for this non-legislative proposal, especially when such a proposal comes from the party that supports the Government. That is to say, we have a situation of unprotectiveness, we have a situation of worrying decline in the number of donors, we have a situation of aggravation, to say the least, of our good consideration for donors that has not been resolved, and we therefore agree with the philosophy of the non-law proposal and with its measures, but what we will not agree with is that this practice, as has happened on other occasions, seems undesirable to us to suggest that those who are at the head of the Government legislative measures that can solve these problems come to us with well-intentioned but contentless purposes that are nothing more than reflections and generalities that do not lead to a solution. We say: we like the text, but we don't like the forms. We shall therefore vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u76	Good afternoon, President. Deputies, deputies. First of all I want to make a recognition, a recognition to people who generously and altruisticly give life to a loved one or an unknown person. To be generous is an example, and it is an example that this House would have to take many more times. Generosity in democracy is much better than resentment, and here we hear a lot of resentment. Thank you, therefore, for your appreciation. And I beg your pardon, I ask your forgiveness. I suppose many of the Members would also ask one by one. I have been in this House since 13 January 2016, and it is a shame that in these more than two years we have done nothing but GNP. I mean, how can this state that some defend so fiercely be unable with its institutions to provide solutions to a few hundred generous people each year? Good people are in prison in a terrible way, good people. What would they want? That the Parliament of Catalonia could legislate on this subject and that, by legislating on this subject, there would be no recourse to the Constitutional Court to prevent anything from being done. It's what happens in this country not to do or let do. [[Applauds]] This is Spain that does not convince many Catalans because we want to do and that it is done, that it is done in Catalonia and that it is done throughout Spain. But, Members, an example. Do it! Do it! And not only do you see the enormous difficulties! Everything is difficult, but from the Government, and with the time that the solution has been thought of, we must find the best time. I have seen in these two years three ministers of health, a minister of the People's Party, who sees that when he left he had everything prepared, and two ministers of the Socialist Party who hope that they have recovered what had been prepared. Let's get to work. What is the goal to achieve? That a doctor can, for example, provide a donation leave and that the donor has health guarantees to ensure that working life is not a problem, that is, a thing as simple as being generous is not punished. Why on a subject that is giving life is not done as in maternal discharge? For what reason? Why is it not possible that something equivalent to maternal discharge can be given to the living donor? I'm sure there are legal problems, but that's what we're for. Or not? To solve problems, not to create more. Many of us, myself twenty-four years old, voted for the 1978 Constitution. Why am I an independentist now? Because I am fed up with a kind of policy and a state structure that prevents real solutions to what citizens need. I will never tire of saying this: We have much more in common than we all live in the Spanish state, but there is something I do not have in common and it is with those politicians who have done nothing to give concrete solutions to the citizenry. They won't find me with these. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u77	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs De la Concha García-Mauriño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, on 19 May 1996 the correspondent of the newspaper Le Figaro in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina appeared hanging from a plastic rope at his home on the island of Menorca. Days earlier someone had stolen his computer and working papers. Bernard Gautier was writing a manuscript on arms smuggling, money diversion donated to the victims of the war in the Balkans and trafficking in organs of Bosnian soldiers. He was investigating the death of 400 Bosnians to extract their liver, corneas, and heart, living non-voluntary donors. Such sinister stories as this tell us about the illegal sale of organs in different countries, the black market where thousands of dollars are paid and where donations, so to speak, come from people without resources, unprotected people who get what they need to survive literally cost them a kidney. These things happen when greed, war or misery end up with the social fabric, when market laws are allowed to invade everything, when money is the only measuring rod, when societies lose and forget their sense of community and mutual support. In our country there are continuous examples of how many people are supportive and selfless, willing to help when needed. In the last riads of Mallorca we saw thousands of people from neighboring villages come to clean up embarrassing streets and houses of people they didn't even know. The issue of transplants, which we are dealing with here today, is another good example. Spain already knows that it has been a leader in all types of transplants for more than twenty years and that we have become a successful model of reference in other countries. In addition, in Spain donations are made within a fully public system, without outsourcing or any other kind of options. It is therefore a success both of the generosity of the citizenry and of our public health system. As mentioned above, nearly 5,300 transplants were carried out in 2017 and for every million inhabitants we have almost fifty donors. And it is that in Spain the donation of organs has been assumed by the population as a disinterested and solidarity act, an act that is especially generous when the donation is made by a living person, a living person who donates one of his kidneys or a piece of his liver so that another person can continue to live, another person who sometimes does not even know. Interestingly, the donation of organs in life is not only a little known situation, but it lacks a socio-occupational protection regime, although this may seem incredible. In this case, as in some others, our labour legislation does not live up to the generosity of its population. Especially bloody is the case of transplants to boys and girls. Currently in Spain 45% of paediatric liver transplants are live donations. Donor persons in these cases are often one of the parents or a very close family member. The first obstacle they are going to encounter is the lack of employment coverage. I am not going to read the rest of my speech because all the colleagues have already spoken about it. I want to say that I join the ode against useless GNP. I think it is very good to have a GNP when we want to bring a subject up, but we have dealt with it in the Committee and in the Senate repeatedly too, so I would not want to contribute to a self-congratulation such as: Oh, what a good thing! We have paid tribute to these generous people, to these living donors, and everything will remain the same. Of course, we cannot vote against such a proposal, but we demand that it be quickly transformed into a real proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u79	Thank you very much. Finally, I ask you, Mrs Raya Rodríguez, whether you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u80	We are working on a transactional, and I would like to thank all the groups for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u82	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the Government's forecasts regarding the problem of the proliferation of gambling houses and the political orientation on gambling. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u83	Good afternoon. From the motion that the confederal group brings today have all its lords knowledge and not only because they are bombarded with the ads of the online betting games by all the generalist media, also because they will have seen that the humble neighborhoods, where they have proliferated in an excessive way in recent years these betting houses, have denounced it. In my city, Xixon, there are skeletons, as in other cities of Asturias, Uviéu, Llangréu, Mieres or Avilés. They are being hung by groups of young people on the streets and on the poles. They are skeletons because they consider that the future of our young people are those who are playing Russian roulette, and that is the chronicle of a death announced for a country. These groups of young people are not the only ones. The Asociación Fejar - some of its representatives accompany us this afternoon in the guest gallery - as well as experts like Mariano Chóliz - also accompanies us - have been doing a very important work, not only of warning and advice, but of working with people and families affected by ludopathy. They have been showing the way our institutions must go to ensure the public health of citizens in terms of gambling addiction, and they are doing what governments are not doing. Last week we were talking about that way forward. We explained this in our question to the Minister of Finance, with whom we saw the tune and, given that the melody was going well, we asked him to give us the letter in detail: time limits for knowing how the Government materializes what has been part of an important agreement that the Confederal Group and the Sánchez Executive signed about two weeks ago. How and when we will see regulated advertising, to date absolutely abusive, of bookmakers and online bets. What specific protection and awareness-raising measures will be taken by the Government. How you're gonna reverse all this. We told them that it is urgent, because this problem was opened in 2011 with the promulgation of Law 13/2011, of 28 May, on Game Regulation, and with it came a dangerous paradigm shift in gambling, mainly because the field was opened to advertising, promotion, sponsorship and responsible game design. We have been a decade behind in the regulation of fundamental aspects that were left unfulfilled and articles 7 and 8 of that law are the example, because up to two times the actual decree on commercial communications has been processed and on those two occasions its processing has not been completed. Those two drafts of royal decree have been left in a drawer. Ladies and gentlemen, promoting a responsible game does not cease to be promoting the consumption of any substance-free or substance-free addiction, and this country has long established control over tobacco and alcohol in its mass communication spaces. A few months ago Facua-Consumers in Action was also addressed to the General Management of Game Ordering to denounce both television advertising and this support that they have, in addition, with the reference of public characters and the media, as well as to demand its limitation to those physical or virtual spaces in which, previously, each player has to identify with their data. We know that this is not a single front, which is why we are presenting this motion as a guide for the Government on which it must act urgently and as a priority, starting with the development of the programme for the prevention of ludopathy and following the immediate process of a new royal decree, one that is this time definitive and that counts on the work that entities and university institutions have contributed to the two previous drafts. This royal decree must be governed by some ideas without which we will not advance or assume the institutional responsibility that belongs to us. It has to recognize gambling and gambling as what they are, economic activities with special risk to health. It must be understood that the regulatory work, which falls not only to this House but also to autonomous parliaments, must be focused on the projection of public health and, in particular, on the rights of children and adolescents. It must understand a unified framework so that the whole State, in the face of the proliferation of gambling houses, can act and thus can intervene the autonomous communities and local administrations, as their neighbours and neighbours are asking them; and also a regulation of commercial communication, as has already been done with alcohol and tobacco, from which lotteries are excluded, because it is the least addictive game between gambling. Finally, responsible gambling policies are needed, and not only the operators but the administration, the administrations, must be questioned. Resources are needed for the prevention and care of those suffering from this disease. Do you know who's been doing this job all this time? Associations. They have done so especially in the face of the lack of protection of minors, and they are absolutely overwhelmed today by the shameful inaction on the part of the executives. Since the 1980s, these associations have been alone for lack of institutional responsibility, for not having understood the importance for public health and for having had no vision - or having looked elsewhere - while there were those who played the future of all to the Russian roulette. Thanks for that work, for that social and institutional responsibility, because right now - I speak again of Asturias - there are stories in which young people have debts that exceed 30 000 euros, that they are beaten for not having been able to pay them and that they steal what they can from their mothers or their parents to missell them or that end up cheating directly; and this is not film scripts or residual situations, this is the reality of many families, not only in Asturias, throughout the State, and so denounces Maxi Gutiérrez, president of Larpa and member of Fejar. [[applause]] Betting isn't a game. To govern, by the way, is not a game and it is up to us to act, to assume the responsibility that municipalities, autonomous communities and the State have for the increase of ludopathy, which cannot be separated from the proliferation of gambling houses and abusive advertising. It must be a royal decree that regulates all this so that we are not complicit in playing the future of our youth and the future of all. Ladies and gentlemen, to support this motion to guide the Government is now in the hands of all of you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u84	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion addresses a growing public health problem in our country as is ludopathy with the aggravating that this addiction increasingly affects young people. The locals and betting areas have multiplied in recent years and this, together with the speed, availability 24 hours a day and the anonymity of the online games, has facilitated the incorporation of young people and modified the profile of the traditional player, all helped by massive and invasive advertising and so-called bonuses, which stimulate the incorporation into the game. For the Forum, it is essential that instruments for the protection of public health and the prevention of addictive behaviour be strengthened, as well as the pursuit of fraudulent activities. In this sense, the measures established by the Advisory Council for Responsible Gambling are of value, although it draws much attention to the fact that since its constitution in February 2013 it has met on twelve occasions, but it is not known that it has met again for fifteen months, which contrasts with the needs arising from the increase in ludopathy in the whole of Spain. He has therefore tabled an amendment urging the Government to regularize its meetings in the face of this growing and worrying problem. It would be a question of adding a new point to the motion, but in any case I will give you my favourable vote because I believe it is important that since Congress we give a unanimous message against this ludopathy.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u86	Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u87	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that the image of ludopathy has changed; it has changed a lot, neither slot machines nor casinos are today the image we have of ludopathy. Today, unfortunately, the game is associated with online bets that are within a click and promote them famous, which seems to us to be really serious. Imagine, for example, a television host linking cigarettes at the time of relaxation, or a footballer relating alcohol with fun, or an actress or an actor associating drugs with celebrations. It would seem to us an authentic barbarity, and every day we can find images of footballers, of presenters - mostly men - who promote online bets, sports bets, who in the end arrive and are a reference for young people. Ludopathy, as has been said, Mrs Fernández Castañón, is an addiction that is sold today as an appeal, as a triumph, and that has its consequences. Young people, more and more, end this addiction. Gambling venues proliferate in our cities, but also gaming ads where we go, and we increasingly access all this content more easily. We have it within a click and we have to put an end to this problem. We will support this motion, of course, but we would also like to extend our hand - and therefore we have tabled amendments - to negotiate and expand it in the sense of protecting a little more if it is up to our minors, regulating those online games that mask the bets with hidden coins and then favor that ludopathy, but also to ban the instant messaging that we receive in a way that is too common and that also promotes online games and puts them even more within reach of all the people who can fall into this game. Today we have the opportunity to put people ahead of the big companies, of the dark businesses that promote ludopathy and to prevent this from being normalized which we see today as harmless but which tomorrow will be a drama. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u89	From Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that we must give the problem of gambling addiction the importance it has, because it is increasingly easier to enter the betting world with the proliferation of gambling houses and online gambling platforms and the greater risk of falling into gambling addiction, as well as the social perception about it is different. This brings with it that substanceless addictions are somehow normalized in society and that as a result the spending on gambling and gambling is increasing. It is clear that we have a problem as a society, which is indispensable to take action, and in our view we must focus on the most vulnerable people, those who are socially excluded or susceptible to being excluded, the younger people, minors, especially because of the impact that online gambling and sports betting have on them. Therefore, we must open the door to prevention above all and give importance to this matter. We will support the motion put forward, but we do not have any elements in the motion or in the budget agreement; that consideration be given to sports betting machines installed in bars and slots, as well as abuse by telephone, which affect especially the younger ones; that greater importance be given to prevention and awareness-raising without focusing so much on control and prohibitions, which in themselves do not address the problem in its entirety. The Basque Addictions Act addresses these issues and regulates the issue of advertising. It was already advanced with its approval two years ago and initiatives for its development are now being taken, making a serious study on the subject to incorporate new measures. We have also proposed, with a view to the development of the law - and this is the end of it - to establish control measures on slot machines and betting machines in which we understand that, rather than control via DNI, we could incorporate systems as simple as those that are being used in tobacco machines and which would also allow for control over who makes use of them. I insist, first of all, that we agree with this motion and we will support it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u90	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Simply by taking a tour or a stroll through any city in Spain, from the largest to the smallest, we can see that the proliferation of betting houses is a fact, and more in the humblest neighborhoods. There's some data. For example, in the Community of Madrid these premises have grown by 140 % in the last four years and in the capital the increase has been almost 72 %. In Andalusia we have increased from 185 to 318. In Castile-La Mancha has increased from 84 to 180 salons from 2014 to 2017. Extremadura, 75 to 95. As we say, a disproportionate and disproportionate increase that must worry us and worry us so that there will not occur in parallel an increase in ludopathy in our country. We must work to ensure that our young people, especially the most vulnerable, have healthy lifestyles and behaviours. The uncontrolled growth of the sector is causing parallel growth in the addictions associated with online gambling in sports betting. Here we have some data, such as the annual increase in the number of people who decide to self-exclude themselves, being included in the general register of bans on access to the game, which is 6%; at the beginning of 2017 there were more than 35,100 people registered voluntarily, 45% of them under thirty-five years of age. In 2005, cases of online gambling addicts serving addiction services accounted for barely 0.5% of patients, now accounting for almost 15%. The average period from the beginning of the activity and its conversion to pathology is, in this type of games, between a year and a year and a half, when in the traditional games it was between five and seven years. Although the law prohibits online gambling until the age of majority, a recent study by the University of Valencia, together with the Codere Foundation, says that 20% of children under the age of eighteen were actively involved in online sports betting; young people who leave their studies, who see their social relations broken and who are economically ruined. That is why we welcome the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Citizens have long been on the Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem dealing with this issue and taking different initiatives. We submitted non-legislative proposals in March 2017, in April 2017 and, recently, last September. We agree on many of your measures, although we disagree on a vision that you have, which focuses excessively on the punitive element and the creation of barriers to access. Citizens consider that you forget an essential element in all of this, and it is to improve the playful offer for our young people, so that they do not be caught spending the evenings in gambling houses because they do not have another form of entertainment. Your motion, we say with all due respect, does not bring anything new about the three or four debates we have had in the Commission and, therefore, we have tabled an amendment to try to improve the text by considering it to be unambitious. I repeat, what we consider is that we must offer leisure alternatives to young people and that their entertainment is not spending the afternoon in gambling houses. We also believe that two important issues must be taken into account: on the one hand, that the benefits of online sports betting companies are dedicated to sport; as they benefit from sport, that part of that benefit goes to sport; on the other hand, that the national platform is created for integrity in sport and betting, to fight against one of the scourges that our sport has, which is the damage of the parties through these bets. That is why, in conclusion, we hope that we can reach a compromise, an agreement that has a more comprehensive view of the whole of this problem that we must face and, of course, once this Congress - as it is desirable and seems to be happening - approves this motion, the Government fulfils the mandate proposed by this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u92	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Florez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u93	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea who today brought to the plenary of this House the problem of pathological gambling, on which we have been working for more than a year on the Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem with proposals initially from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to which other groups have subsequently been added, as well as with appearances such as those from Fejar, who today accompany us in the rostrum. We thank you for the enormous effort and dedication to the attention of the people who develop this disorder. Gambling is an activity that may have health risks, as although there are many factors that affect its prevalence, both the structural characteristics of the game and the conditions in which it is implemented are determining factors for the development of the disease disorder. Among the different games of chance, those of online mode are undoubtedly those that because of their peculiarities are especially addictive. And if we add to this a high degree of accessibility and availability, as happens in other substances, in addition to other environmental factors, such as excessive advertising, the risk is even greater. As with other addictive disorders, the most effective way to address the problem is through prevention through the implementation of preventive programs from different areas, family, health, school, community, in which the Government is already working through the Government Delegation for the National Drug Plan with the 2018-2020 Action Plan. And together with prevention, gambling policies are the most effective tools to combat risk behaviours, which therefore makes regulatory policies by different administrations necessary and that they are being adapted to the evolution of the gambling market. In this respect, I would like to say, on the one hand, that the competition of face-to-face gambling and part of online gambling is autonomous, the whole problem of the proliferation of gambling houses must be addressed from the autonomous point of view and, on the other hand, it is state-owned in the activity linked to the online gambling that is directed to the whole territory; hence the amendments that we have tabled to the Confederal Group on competition issues. However, as this problem affects us, concerns us and concerns us, working groups will be set up - in fact the establishment of working groups has already been approved - in coordination with the autonomous communities, with the local authorities, to evaluate, review the regulations, exchange good practices and make the necessary changes, and this is reflected in the Action Plan adopted a month ago. The purpose of Law 13/2011 was to regulate the activity of the game, as was also the protection of consumers, the defence of minors, the policies of a responsible game, and when we say responsible game we mean game without risk, but after seven years of the presentation of this law still do not develop articles 7 and 8, which are precisely those that must work on consumer protection and responsible game. This is another example that the years of popular government in public health in general and of addictions in particular have been a journey through the desert. For this socialist government committed to the health and well-being of citizens, as we have shown, it is imperative to implement policies based on the principles of responsible gambling, intensify preventive actions, as well as conclude the actual decree that develops the aspects relating to advertising and that guarantees a high level of health and consumer protection, especially of the most vulnerable, such as self-excluded and minors. This is a Government of commitments and facts; all the policies we develop focus on people, their needs and their problems. We are sensitive to the drama that is generated in many families, especially when these affected are their children and their daughters, and this Government has already put its hands into the work to tackle the problem. We therefore welcome this motion and, in order to enrich it, we have included a number of proposals on competition issues and clearly clarifying that new and immediate is unworkable and that neither the associative fabric nor society can wait any longer to solve the problem. These amendments we have tabled are not merely a declaration of intent, but are the firm commitment of the Socialist Group and the Government, to which we support, to advance the protection of health, especially for our children and young people. We hope to reach an agreement and to adopt a compromise text with input from the various parliamentary groups, which will obviously have to be nuanced and refined in the processing of the royal decree. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u94	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the People's Parliamentary Group we have also tabled an amendment, because we believe that first of all we must stress that we are in favour of people's freedom, but that is yes, always protecting the child and his rights, and we think that the game should be a legal activity - yes - it should be a regulated activity - yes - and maximum controls and guarantees should also be required, especially when it comes to minors. We fully agree on that, and in that sense our amendment is addressed. But we also eliminate some points with which we do not agree, such as that of matching public betting operators with private bets, because we would be harming public ownership operators, which I remind them that they fulfil an important social purpose and that they also collaborate with sports federations and serve to promote basic sport and women's sport. That is why we have deleted that point in our amendment. We also delete point 3(b) - to which reference has already been made - in which they call for a unified regulatory framework throughout the State, because the powers over the game, as you know, are transferred to the autonomous communities and will have to be those that establish their own legislation. Some speakers have already mentioned the need to amend this point. On the other hand, as far as advertising is concerned - it has also been mentioned here - article 7 itself of the Game Regulation Act of 2011 established the prohibition of advertising and promotion of certain types of games. What we stress in our amendment is the commitment to the comprehensive protection of the child, always leaving the citizen at liberty. We believe in free citizens, adults, responsible, who can also perfectly dedicate their leisure time to these games of chance; the one who voluntarily decides it. In short, we are in favour of waiting for the studies and reports of experts from associations and other experts, not only from the university, before beginning to ban, because in any case what we must do is to develop articles 7 and 8 as regulated by the Game Act. In summarising our position, we are in favour of more control over the advertising and access of minors - of course - which is also reflected in our amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, since the decriminalisation of the game in 1977 - let us remember that until 1977 the game was prohibited - and mainly due to the emergence of new electronic communications services and the use of the game over the Internet, this activity has changed very substantially, something I believe we will all agree on. New regulatory mechanisms are therefore needed to provide legal certainty to economic operators, who also exist in this sector, and to those who decide to participate in these games of chance, never forgetting the essential protection of minors and those who have voluntarily requested their non-participation. From the need to regulate this online game was born the current regulation of the game of 2011, which from our point of view is not a bad regulation - in fact, it reached the practice unanimity of the political groups - another thing is that there are some articles that are pending regulatory development. But, ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, we cannot demonise the whole game of chance either. Obviously the game can be dangerous, but like many other activities in life. Eating is not synonymous with obesity, drinking is not synonymous with alcoholism and, therefore, playing should not be synonymous with ludopathy, without meaning that strict controls should not be established on minors' access and advertising aimed at this vulnerable sector. Spanish society is a society in which you have played your whole life, you usually play many games. One example is the Christmas lottery, in which virtually everyone participates and nobody sees it wrong. But we must also recognize that online gambling has superior addictive potential and has faster consequences. We are therefore concerned about this issue, like all groups, but we believe that we do not start from scratch, because in the regulations - as I have already said - we already have some aspects mentioned by the proposing group itself in its motion. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a regulation that reached the maximum parliamentary consensus. We find an activity that in our opinion is legal, must be legal and must be regulated. Let us continue to work together to ensure that a leisure activity designed for adults, free and responsible does not become a danger to our young people, with an emphasis on advertising and, in particular, targeting young people. But let us not take a step in the opposite direction, because it would be turning these activities into illegal and online gambling will continue to exist in Spain, either through operators located in Spain or through operators located in other tax territories. In this spirit of prudence, in the face of a multiple-derived issue and pending regulatory development, as the PSOE spokesman has said in this regard, my group is presenting this amendment which will try to deal with the rest of the groups as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u97	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, aratsalde on. Today we are presented with a motion in which, of course, it is difficult to position ourselves for the large number of points it contains; although we would agree with its content, we are not so much for competitive reasons. It must be said that the game is multi-factorial and multi-sectoral and depends on Health, Interior and Finance, but we must also take into account that the skills are distributed. Not all of them depend on the State, since many of them are autonomous and therefore part of the points of this motion - in the case of Euskadi, of course - are reflected in the various existing regulations. On the other hand, the game sector is characterized by being a sector that is committed to the development of new technologies and distribution channels, platforms and operating systems, so it is in a constant process of technological innovation, which also hinders its control. This group shares the concern about the binomial abuse young and gambling, especially sports betting, both face-to-face and online. Of course, it is up to the different administrations to seek a balance between freedom of enterprise and the right to a responsible leisure. All this, moreover, bearing in mind that the European Union includes gambling within its Community policies on public health and also on consumer protection. We believe that we must ensure that leisure time does not become a compulsive game and therefore becomes a pathological problem, with the resulting personal, family, health and economic problems that lead to the people involved. As I said, in Euskadi, on the one hand, we have the Addictions Act, a law that addresses addictions in a multidisciplinary and comprehensive way, with special emphasis on health education in all areas and areas that have an impact on addictions. In addition to substance addictions, it includes behavioral addictions or substance-free addictions, including ludopathy. Thus, we have actions to reduce supply, to promote responsible use of gambling and new technologies, and it is rather a question of criminalizing, raising awareness and socializing about the consequences of this phenomenon in order to bring about a change of attitude. On the other hand, we also have the General Rules of the Game, the planning, authorization, registration, organization, operation and regime of control and sanction of the play activities, whether they are held in person in physical establishments or by electronic, computer, telematic or interactive means. The motion raises many and various measures, but we will highlight one in particular, which is the regulation of gambling advertising, with the protection of young children and vulnerable sectors, trying to limit the supply, increase the perception of risk and reduce the risks associated with this inappropriate use of the game. I even suppose that it is also intended to be a self-control of the sector, which I do not know if it will be achieved because as for the presence of popular characters we would have to ask you who is popular, for whom and how you can really articulate this; a complicated question when, moreover, football stars, for example, are those who, through advertising, encourage to play. We are already taking action in this regard in Euskadi. In Italy, measures have been taken such as banning gambling advertisements and we are also aware here that other public administrations are carrying out advertising campaigns for the promotion of responsible gambling policies that will enable the dissemination of good gambling practices and prevent and repair their negative effects. On the other hand, the motion also speaks to us of a unified framework so that the autonomous communities can intervene on the proliferation of betting houses, but it is that the autonomous communities - at least Euskadi - already have it. In addition, we have a technical advisory committee on the game, as Mr Martínez Oblanca mentioned, whose objective, among others, is to promote and promote responsible gambling. In short, given the innumerable measures presented, which some are already being addressed in the autonomous communities - so we have said that there is a certain competitive invasion - not knowing if we are going to reach a transactional, we will wait a bit to fix our position. Thank you. Eskerrik asko. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u98	Thank you very much. I would ask, please, a little silence to all your ladies and gentlemen, because it is quite difficult, with that murmuring background, to hear the speaker. So, please, I beg a little silence. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The presence of gambling in the collective imagination of the state comes from afar; the Christmas lottery, the quinielas, the casinos, the slot machines, all this has been part of the lives of millions of people. As an economic sector, they have generated jobs and have generated enormous benefits for both private operators and the State through taxes. Behind these enormous benefits, we can also find a flood of families destroyed by ludopathy and indebtedness. For years, as a result of the possibilities offered by information technologies and the Internet boom, new business models have emerged that deepen and make the phenomenon even more complex. Online betting houses, a business that has multiplied at a spectacular pace in recent years, are increasingly the new knot of gambling business. The tax benefits generated by a business of mastodontic proportions, such as online gambling, are at least questionable, as we are all aware of the practices of circumvention and tax engineering of these websites; on the contrary, the negative externalities and the social impact of these are increasingly evident. It does not cease to be significant that the average profile of the player in Spain is between twenty and thirty-five years. It is also worrying that young people are also a loyal clientele of gambling houses and bets that are proliferating without measure in large cities. These businesses are located not in the wealthy neighborhoods, but in those with low purchasing power and a high rate of immigrant population. We must put limits on the sector. Online gambling has, as all studies show, a potentially addictive component, much higher than so-called face-to-face games. L'Asociació Catalana d'Addiccions Socials, Acencas, has been alerting for years of some dangers in the sector; dangers such as the use of images of minors as advertising material. Some sports entities, such as well-known football clubs, have gambling advertising. It is surprising that while minors are banned from the activity, these minors are allowed to publicize the game. Neither in the field of advertising does it act against false advertising, as the phrase 'plays and wins', relating the game to a secure gain, something totally false. Money is given through the welcome bonuses. It makes no sense that this has been banned in face-to-face gambling by promoting ludopathy and, however, allowed in online gambling or that, for example, it is allowed to play with money on credit, thus reducing the feeling of loss. We must act urgently and we must regulate the online game. We cannot allow the new game modalities to be outside the regulation of gambling. We're allowing a ludopath to carry a small casino in his pocket: his own mobile phone. So far it has acted laxly and has been committed to the liberalization of a sector, thinking only of a collection effort and it has not been taken into account that behind each player there can be a problem and whole families destroyed. [[The lady]] This is a major health problem. That is why our parliamentary group is going to support the motion. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall Sastre. I ask Mrs Fernández Castañón whether she accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u101	We're working on a transactional that we'll pass to the rest of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u102	Thank you so much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the use of instrumental partnerships to pay less taxes by members of the socialist executive and the President's commitment to expel from his party to whom he does so. [[File number 173/000114]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u103	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the use of instrumental societies to pay less taxes by members of the Socialist Executive and the president's commitment to expel anyone from his party. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Martínez-Maillo Toribio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. I rise to this rostrum to defend a motion resulting from urgent questioning; it is a very simple motion, the truth, because the only thing we ask is the appearance of Mr Duque. It is probably a motion that would have been unnecessary if Mr. Duque had given sufficient explanations, if he had appeared and given more or less reasonable explanations. Therefore, it is a motion provoked by Mr Duque; perhaps we are dealing with the first case of an 'automotion' caused by this gentleman's own incomparence. By the way, does anyone know where he is? Has anyone seen him? I say this because this afternoon in the Senate I had a question and neither has he gone, the Minister of Finance has answered it. We have asked for the Commission to appear, we have also asked questions in plenary and it has not appeared, and the Minister of Finance appeared at the previous parliamentary inquiry. From the 27th of September, which was the day the scandal broke out, until today it has not appeared in Congress. Believe me, this is a scandal. It is a lack of respect for this House and a deficit of democratic culture which this group considers absolutely unacceptable. If you're afraid, you don't want, you can't or you don't know or you're not allowed to appear, honestly, maybe you can't be part of a government, even if it's this bad Spanish government that we have right now. We are not questioning his professional prestige, which we know he has; we have not even asked him to resign, nor have we come to the conclusion that he has failed, because we have not yet reached that point. We have many more ministers to criticize and control, we do not give enough of the number of ministers who are questioned daily for their worst acts, but it is that in this case he has not even appeared and the questions are the following: Is it a crime to constitute a heritage society? No, it doesn't. Is it permissible to create a heritage society to pay less taxes? Depends on the level of demand of each. We have to go back to Mr Sánchez's statements in February 2015 when he said that if he had in the Federal Executive of the Socialist Party a leader of his party that constituted a heritage society to pay less taxes he would get out of the Federal Executive of the Socialist Party. He said that was his commitment to his voters and to all the Spaniards. He referred to Mr Monedero and also to the secretary general of Podemos, who at that time, obviously, did not get along so well, they were not so friendly. That is the moral level or the level of demand that he had and, therefore, really the author of this motion is Pedro Sánchez himself, who placed that level of demand for the Duke. The answer to this question, in Mr Sánchez's words, is no. From that moment on, they had to make different excuses. Mr Ábalos's excuse is certainly fantastic, because he says that Minister Duque is not part of the PSOE Executive and therefore does not affect his words. Of course, it is supposed that the level of demand of a member of the Socialist Executive is higher than being a member of the Government of Spain, is the concept in which you have the Executive. And Mrs Celaá, as spokesman for the government, said that before she was a minister, because she was not born a minister, she was an astronaut. Of course, of course. All these explanations didn't work out, and that's why they had to come up with a new excuse yesterday. Yesterday Mr Duque presented, via Twitter, a paper, where he says: in case there was still any doubt, we already have the professional report on our family society; we do not create it to pay less taxes and we are aware of it. And it publishes a paper - because it does not have the category of report, that out of respect to the person signing it I will not qualify it as a pamphlet -, made even before the inquiry, which is signed by a friend of the Socialist Party, a partial paper where it does not say on what it is based and that it is supposed that we all have to believe, that it concludes that it is not only that it has paid the right or paid less, it is that it has paid more. It's just incredible, Mr. Duque has paid more taxes than the rest of the Spaniards! A fascinating conclusion, no doubt. The common thing about mortals as a whole is that citizens pay their taxes with a lot of effort, their taxes, but they pay no more and no less. I don't know anyone who pays more taxes, but since yesterday we already know one: Mr. Duke. Perhaps it is that he has imbued himself with the emotional intelligence of the Minister of Finance and, therefore, decides to pay more because he is an altruistic minister who decides to pay more taxes. [[applause]] But, look, it's not true; it made society pay less taxes, it's evidence. In addition, he recognized it at that appearance on the 27th, where he said two things: one, which the government of ZP - Zapatero - has promoted. Look, he's done some weird Zapatero stuff, but promoting heritage society... It says, it was the bubble. I guess he didn't mean Freixenet's, I guess he meant the real estate bubble. And secondly, he says that inheritance, in case of a perch, being a society would be cheaper for him. He is therefore acknowledging that he has set up a company to pay less corporate, property and, of course, estate taxes. Did you commit a tax offence or a tax offence? We don't know, because even though he said that there was revenue to rent, according to the Mercantile Registry data, between 2015 and 2017 the company didn't declare any income, just operating expenses. That's right, when you're asked for documentation, it says: listen, it's personal data, we're not going to make it easy. Tell us this, which we have had to strip, day and day too, precisely by providing data - every day - to the demands of the Socialist Party and the opposition. [[Applauds]] What's this about personal data, ladies and gentlemen? Look, we're not gonna stop until I give you explanations, until you answer the accounts, because whoever pays the most I guess has no problem explaining why he pays the most. Come on, I say! It would be the opposite, you hide if you pay less, but if you pay more you're fantastic and I guess you can explain. Or maybe he regularized his situation and didn't tell, I don't know. But if you have to bring him from a ronzal, as we brought Mr. Sánchez to the Senate to appear on his thesis, we will certainly do. Gentlemen of Podemos, I hope that you, after the week of your tour of Spain, will do something and support this motion, which is the only thing you are looking for... By the way, you would disassociate yourself from this government and might somehow not be used as a buffer precisely to the demands of this parliamentary group and not to cover up the shames of the Socialist Party. It wouldn't be bad if they did. I'm done. Since I do not know where Mr Duque is, I am addressing you, or in case he is watching us on television, and I ask Mr Duque to end this, that if he does not appear because he is not left behind or because he does not want to, the best thing he can do is to appear, acknowledge that he has been wrong and stop as soon as possible this lack of credit that he is losing day by day because he belongs, without a doubt, to this evil government of Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez-Maillo. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u106	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week I remind you from this rostrum that there are political prisoners, some of whom have been incarcerated for a year, on a preventive basis and with a pre-trial detention that has not been approved in the rest of Europe. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I would like to remind you that, with regard to the motion resulting from an inquiry, beyond the use that each one wants to make of the motions resulting from an inquiry, beyond the fact that we agree that it is necessary for Minister Pedro Duque to explain and give them in a much more explicit way, beyond the fact that the President of the Government is surely a prisoner of his words, beyond the fact that an attempt has been made from some areas to criminalize the property societies, which are well used are not recriminable and we would ask for some common sense in these aspects, it is also true that from our point of view you are using a somewhat peculiar or abnormal mechanism to try to ask the Minister to appear. If you read the Rules of Congress, Rule 203 sets out how exactly you have to ask for an appearance of a minister and who will decide it will be the Bureau, hearing the spokespersons. [[Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio makes gestures]] That can therefore be called for by two parliamentary groups or three-fifths of Members, and the Bureau says so. Because imagine this motion succeeds today. What legal effect does it have? None. Same as asking for the ordinary system. I repeat, in order for there to be no doubt, that our group understands that the minister must appear to give explanations. We understand that the explanations he has given are frankly improveable. We understand that it is appropriate for him, for his Government, for the parliamentary groups or for the parliamentary group that supports this Government and we understand that, once the explanations are given, we can each take a position on this, including his party and his party's secretary-general, but we also understand that the use of a motion resulting from an inquiry to request an appearance is not the mechanism to be used. We are going to vote against the motion for an inquiry. However, we demand it here, we demand it from the parliamentary majority and we advise it modestly, that it would be desirable for the minister to appear and give explanations. We presume his good faith and his good action and, therefore, if he has acted in good faith - and I am sure he has - the most clear and convincing thing for all is that he is subject to the consideration of a committee, knowing that these committees sometimes have a risk. In any case, have confidence in the majority of this House and the minister must appear, but today we are going to vote against the motion as a result of questioning for the reasons set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u108	Thank you, President. Today the People's Parliamentary Group presents us with a motion to approve the appearance of the Minister of Science, in order that he may appear in the relevant Commission and give explanations about his heritage society. Of course, for us the first thing to mention is that heritage societies are legal, they are covered by the regulations, that is, the fact of buying or acquiring property through a society is legal. And it is true that it is often used for tax savings, which does not mean that there is evasion, provided that the regulatory requirements are met. In recent times it is true that instrumental societies or interposed societies have been and are current, because they have been related to well-known taxpayers in different fields, whether sports or politics, and because the Tax Administration has sanctioned them by considering that they were companies whose sole purpose was to impute their personal income to them to pay less taxes, savings due to non-existence of retentions and a lower tax rate in societies. The Finance Inspectorate considers that in these companies there is fraud of law when they do not have personal or material means for the provision of services, they do not have employed persons, there is usually only one client, usually shareholder or administrator, things that have certainly not been given in this case; no inspection by the Finance Inspectorate has been carried out. It is difficult to think that a taxpayer will give up legal action if it involves savings, so the amendment of the regulations for this type of society will have to be valued, if it is believed to be necessary or if it is believed to be not a good example for the citizenry. The minister offered a number of explanations in which he denied the irregularities, but today we also know that he apparently commissioned a technical report on his company, in which it is concluded that it was not created to pay less taxes, but instead paid more taxes and that he has not used that company to bill his services. [[Rumors]] This group believes in the good faith of the minister. It is not possible to assume that any person who creates this type of society does so in order to commit any illegality and of course it is not for us to judge his business activity and/or his conduct, and less to clarify whether he has committed an offence or not, because that is what the Tax Administration is for, which we understand that, if they see any evidence, he would initiate the relevant file. It is true that comparisons are also odious, but the truth is that the two cases of instrumental societies that have occurred in recent months do not reflect the same reality, since in one case there was a sanction on the part of the Tax Agency and in this case there is no sanction at all. On the other hand - and we share what Mr Bel said - it is somewhat anomalous to request an appearance in this gallery, because it seems more like a marketing operation. [[Rumors]] For all that, we will now vote against this motion. We do not need explanations beyond, unless it is the minister himself who wants to give the explanations for himself. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to interrupt Mrs Sagastizabal, although it would have been hard for her to make her speech, as well as Mr Martínez-Maillo, who had to follow her, would have been hard for her to learn what the honourable Member was saying in the rostrum. We are about to finish; we can finish in fifteen minutes or we can be interrupting the plenary every twenty seconds to ask for silence. I would ask you, please, to keep a little quiet. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the example is not the best way to change the behavior of others, it is the only way. Since we are talking about the Minister of Science, I wanted to start this intervention by quoting a great scientist like Albert Einstein. Why? Because exemplaryness is important, and it is important for government ministers and it is especially important for those ministers who had a great image of professionals, such as Mr. Duque, before starting in politics at the hand of Dr. Pedro Sánchez. To be exemplary, it is obviously important, in the first place, to comply with fiscal obligations and, in the second place, as a minister, to appear and give the appropriate explanations to the relevant Commission in the Congress of Deputies, as we requested at the time. As we have asked Mr Duque to appear, following an elementary logic we are going to vote in favour of him to do so. And, inside this festival, that exemplaryness begins by trying not to fool us all to save Mr. Sánchez's nonsense. Mr Sánchez, when referring to the taxation and the strange situation of Mr Monedero, came up with the theory that anyone who used a society to pay less taxes did not meet the ethical lists of the Socialist Party and would be out of its executive in twenty-four hours. He forgot a small detail - as in all his folly - that he did without complying with the laws, an absolutely essential issue. We have been talking here for months about raising taxes indiscriminately to all, to those who already pay them, but this government of Mr Sánchez has forgotten the fight against tax fraud, perhaps because it had examples such as that of Màxim Huerta or, perhaps, that of Mr Duque. That's why he just wants to talk about raising taxes to honest taxpayers. Allow me. This starts, in the first place, because they don't take all our hairs and it's a hairstylist to say that more taxes have been paid and not to prove that taxes have been paid. And the report that Mr Duque has published is quite surprising. Firstly, because it is signed by a gentleman who, in turn, signs repeated articles with the secretary of economics of the Socialist Party, defending, for example, that large companies pay more, forgetting that there are double taxation agreements. But the current secretary of economics of the Socialist Party, Mr Escudero, is one of the tokens of Pedro Sánchez; he is currently an ambassador to the OECD replacing a finger of Mr Rajoy, Mr Wert and, as he said, he does not know that there are double taxation agreements, which are made precisely in the OECD. Mr. Rodríguez Márquez says that Mr. Duque has paid more taxes than he would have paid as a natural person and that this is due to a professional failure. From this Mr. Duque deduces, surprisingly, that he did not make society to pay less taxes. If it was a professional mistake to advise him to make the company because he has paid too much, it is that he tried to pay too much. [[Applauds]] He may have tried to pay less, there is no problem, but that has to be done within the lawfulness, something absolutely relevant, and what has drawn me the most attention of this technical note is that an income derived from the use of the house is charged, what is known as self-renting, correctly declared, but not reflected in the accounting. This says an active tax advisor. This implies that accounting does not reflect reality, does not reflect payments in corporate tax, which is an infringement of section 200 of the General Tax Act. In other words, the report published by Mr. Duque by his tax adviser states that he has violated the General Tax Act and that it is a serious tax infringement. To try to save Mr. Sánchez's face from his folly, Mr. Duke would have to come here and explain himself, appear. Mistakes have them all over the world in this life, but it is much worse that Mr Sánchez's advisors try to fix them with their geniuses, because they end up stating that this gentleman has violated the General Tax Law when, perhaps, he is not. I advise Mr Duque, this brilliant scientist and now this unknown manager because he cannot exercise as a minister, to come and appear, please, to be an example and to be accountable to the representatives of popular sovereignty who are in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. It seems to us that it is the least I could do, as it would clear up all doubts. Unfortunately, this one-page report is not that it does not clear the doubts, it is that it creates them and harms them, as it harms all Spaniards this government of Mr Sánchez. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u112	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Let us go on to say that we agree that Mr Duque should come to this House and give explanations in the respective Commission. In fact, it seems that there are already requests in this regard, which is why we really do not understand anything of what is happening right now in this plenary with this point. Frankly, we are very disoriented and disoriented because, knowing that explanations are being asked of the minister - because the report that was presented yesterday does indeed not cease to be an unofficial report and in that sense we believe that the minister has not yet explained everything that should have been explained -, given that for good, what we do not understand is why we have to be discussing this in a motion. Several of those who have preceded me here have already said this and we are with the same surprise that other speakers and'speakers' here have shown before. Why? Because as you have already explained to them - I think it was Mr Bel - he has detailed what the Rules of Procedure say to request the appearance of a minister. Among other things, it is necessary to have more than one fifth of the House and, from the accounts I do, it seems that the People's Parliamentary Group has it. You have the numbers to ask for a Commission; in fact, you have asked for it. And you're going to forgive me, Madam President, but I don't think the Bureau of Congress wants to block a request of these characteristics, do you? I certainly do not believe that the Bureau will be a problem in this matter. On the other hand, when we saw that this motion appeared on the agenda of this plenary session, Mr. Maillo, frankly I thought it was a reprobation; I thought it was a reprobation because why would they bring such a subject to Congress if not for this? And then it turns out that the thing is so... Roma, because it turns out it's to ask for something that's not even procedural or regulatory. We really are very dislocated, we cannot quite understand this move because, frankly, we cannot assume that you do not know the Rules of Procedure. For God's sake, how will you not know the Rules! So, what do we have to assume given this scenario? For basically the aim of the initiative is, let's say, to try to put on the agenda, which some communicators would say; others would perhaps say it is to get angry, which has the legitimacy it has. Last week Congressman Bravo, who defended the inquiry here, spoke of not using the 'and you more' resource. So said Mr Bravo, which by the way I applaud. What happens is that to the extent that Mr. Bravo said this, actually what he was conjuring is the 'and you plus' again and again playing your/my, the 'and you plus' with the government. Of course, it would seem that Mr. Bravo, by repeating this much of the 'and you plus' - or that I don't do the 'and you plus' - seemed as if he would exorcise the many demons that the People's Party still has in it. And the truth, Mr. Maillo, is that there is corruption in the state, that we cannot deny; there is corruption and we need to find out how deep and far that corruption has. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u113	Mr. Guijarro, one second, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u114	I was saying that it is clear that the State in Spain has a very serious problem of corruption and that therefore this House would do well even by increasing the efforts made to clarify and shed light on these episodes, but then we see the attitude of its parliamentary group - and not just of its own, but of others - and it seems that it sometimes sees issues that are of supine importance to us, allegedly acts of corruption, which however you refuse to even discuss. I'm talking about the Royal House without going any further. There have been cases in recent months, according to which the honorability of certain characters of the Casa Rea has been questioned, and here it seems that there is a thundering silence to prevent investigation and finding out what has to do with these alleged businesses. I would especially like to take advantage of these remaining seconds to try to talk about the important thing. I regret that the minister is not here today because in the science section there are a lot of fundamental issues that we believe should be dealt with and that we would like to hold the minister accountable. Firstly, when are previous interventions in IPOs going to be eliminated, something that seriously delays the funding of IPOs? When is it going to end the bureaucratic obstacles to which the actors who intervene in the world of science in Spain are subjected so that it can go with a little more fluidity? When will the procurement processes linked to the projects be simplified? When will the Royal Remuneration Approval Decree-Law be passed? Finally, there are a number of fundamental issues that affect Spanish science and which I think are far more important to discuss in this plenary than a certain report that can be aired elsewhere specifically for such issues. So, we already know the intentions. The intention is to get angry and not talk about the important thing. We do not want to lend ourselves to that move and, although the request itself is out of time, I would say that it insults us, it seems to us that it is so ridiculous that we have no choice but to vote against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot share the content of this motion. Approval by motion does not make any sense, and so have other colleagues. It does not come about or seem appropriate, either in form or in substance. This motion does not urge the Government to take any general measures, as would be logical in this type of initiative, setting a position on a subject, but rather to reiterate a request for an appearance for the Minister Pedro Duque to give immediate explanations on a subject in his personal sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure allow any group in this House to request the appearance of a member of the Government. In fact, you have already done so and, having not even two days passed, you have recorded your urgent appeal to the Government to end by asking in this motion for the appearance of the minister you have already asked for. I mean, it's absurd. What's the point of this motion? None; none more than that of the media noise. The Socialists do not consider there to be any objective cause justifying the repetition of this request. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that your question and your motion are not supported in any way, and that is why you are asking for what you are asking for. Everything seems to indicate that the Spanish right has no solid arguments to question the Government's action from a political perspective and that is why they resort to personal issues of its members of the Government. The Government was certainly doing well and it was impossible for them to improve their policies with proposals to be included in a motion. It is obvious that you have nothing more to contribute, so for you the most urgent thing is to talk about politicians and not about politics. [[Applauds]] I'm going back to the evidence. [[The lady]] The Government, as it committed itself, is recovering the rights of citizens cut off by the People's Party Government, is working to meet the commitments made with our European partners, is reaching agreements with the groups of this House to transpose directives, to draw up the general budgets of the State. It is proposing policies that address the main concerns of citizens in health, employment, equality, dependency, pensions, science or education, all of which the People's Party Government has shown to be incapable of doing. This is evidence which explains that since the beginning of this session the People's Party has devoted itself exclusively to the personal disqualification of members of the Government; one by one they are trying to discredit. It doesn't matter whether a news about them is false or not; it doesn't matter whether it is a crime or not; there is no distinction; they are immediately questioned without analyzing the truthfulness or importance of the news, turning the Courts into an ancient Roman amphitheatre by throwing the ministers at the lions of slander and infamy, with the gradual deterioration that this entails to the democratic system itself. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u118	This motion is another action within the strategy of constant defamation in which the People's Party has been installed and which undoubtedly degrades parliamentary action. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the greatest motivation for reiterating the request to appear is not in the need to clarify a truth. The Group of the People's Party does not have the slightest interest in knowing the substance of the matter, the greatest motivation is in the fact that Pedro Duque accepted to be part of the government of Pedro Sánchez. That is what the representative of the People's Party said last week in this plenary, and it also seems to be what the representative of the People's Party said today. It seems that this is the only thing that motivates his media persecution. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to cooperate with your vote on this strategy. In fact, what bothers the People's Party is that Pedro Sánchez, with his Government, managed to enchant a majority of the Spanish population. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u119	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u120	And what's clear is that all they're trying to do is undermine that illusion no matter what it takes, whoever falls, no matter what the consequences. This motion responds to that claim. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no, we cannot share it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, their inability to assume political responsibilities when they were in government in cases of proven corruption and illegality of members of their party, who are today in prison, has led them to the opposition and gives them no credibility to demand explanations and responsibilities in the way they do. Get rid of the mistakes of your past and rebuild your own alternative; it will be good for you, but it will be good for the coexistence of this country. Correct your attitude because with it you are not doing any favors to democracy. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u121	Thank you very much. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u122	We begin the voting. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, an organic reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code for the Protection of Freedom of Expression. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 178 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 180 in favour, 166 against.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u123	It's taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the organ of reform of the Organization Act 1/2004 of 28 December 2004 on measures to protect against gender-based violence. [[File number 122/00255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u124	We now vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; 134; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u125	Therefore, it is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u126	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. First, we vote for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group calling on the Government and its members to refrain from any pronouncement, statements or public action that undermines the independence and legitimacy of the judiciary. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 166 against, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u127	It's rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SOCIAL AND LABORAL PROTECTION OF MOTORS LIVED FROM AN ORGAN. [[File number 162/000391]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u128	We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the socio-laboral protection of a body's living donors. It was voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialists and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 343 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u129	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u130	We shall continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. We shall vote, first of all, on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the Government's forecasts of the problem of the proliferation of gambling houses and the political orientation on gambling. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 339 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u131	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the use of instrumental partnerships to pay less taxes by members of the socialist executive and the President's commitment to expel from his party to whom he does so. [[File number 173/000114]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u132	And we now vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the use of instrumental societies to pay less taxes by members of the Socialist Executive and the president's commitment to expel anyone who does so from his party. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 165 against, 178 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-23-CD181023.u133	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight o'clock at night.
