ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that item 33, corresponding to the debate on the whole of the draft law on universal access to the National Health System, coming from the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018 of 27 July, will be discussed as the first issue at the Thursday session. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u2	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for a law of popular legislative initiative, and in particular the proposal for a law for the effective equality and equal pay of the Spanish State Police. He has requested the use of the shift in favor of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Delgado Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we come here to talk about the police and the Civil Guard. Today we are not going to talk - at least we are not going to talk - about Commissioner Villarejo or the state sewers or Billy the Child. Today we are not going to talk about that minority that does not represent the police and the civilian guards. Let's talk about most of those cops and civilian guards, honest people, working people, professional people. Let's talk about work dignity, that's what we're talking about today. First of all, I would like to send a greeting on behalf of my parliamentary group, Unite Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to all those civil guards committed to the rule of law, to freedoms and to democracy; not only to those comrades who accompany us in the rostrum, also to those who are on the street and to those who are in their destiny serving. [[applause]] You will recall that about a year ago a non-legislative proposal was debated here, brought by the People's Party, which was actually talking more about Catalonia than about equal pay. I myself in this rostrum argued my vote against, first because we understood that after thirty years we could not come here with a non-law proposal that was also a toast to the sun and that it was not binding. Time gave me the reason, because months later, thousands of police and civilian guards went out into the street, had to go out into the street to claim labor rights and a real wage equalization. After those mobilizations it can be said that wage equality has already begun. There is an agreement that is good - and nobody says otherwise - but that we must develop and implement, even shield, so that this unjust situation of aggravation and historical discrimination that police and civilian guards have suffered will not be repeated again. This is reflected in paragraph 8 of that agreement between the Government, police unions and associations. It is therefore a question of implementing and developing this agreement so that the 13 000 families, 13 000 police and civilian guards who have been left out of this agreement can also benefit from it. This ILP that we are debating here today, indeed, is about ending that historical discrimination and also shielding it legislatively so that the police - I repeat - do not have to spend thirty years asking again, demanding labor dignity and socio-laboral improvements. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to professionally dignify police and civilian guards. I'm saying it so no one can see here any other intention. This initiative does not seek to invade powers or a campaign against autonomous police or local police, but rather the contrary. The police and the civilian guards want to have the same socio-occupational conditions as the rest of the police. There is nothing else, that no one sees anything else, because the other is neither in the debate nor is it questioned. I want to make this clear because some political groups have used this argument - that of legal issues, that of invading competences - precisely to question this initiative and, as I say, this popular legislative initiative deals with labour dignity and there is nothing else. This is about improving, guaranteeing the socio-occupational conditions of police and civilian guards as workers they are. Today a procedure begins here, but then there will be amendments that can be improved, fine-tuned, or as you might say, so that this initiative that enters here today will be respectful of the rest of the legal system. That's why we have our lawyers here, who do that important job. I say this because, moreover, it would be difficult afterwards - if anyone still wants to argue that this initiative is not worth it because it clashes with the legal system - to question it, when we have seen Members and Members of all parliamentary groups here behind the banner of police and civilian guards signing their legislative initiative; I would say that they are now being beaten so much, because I assume that whoever signed this popular legislative initiative - I signed it - read it earlier and knew what was being asked for. It will be difficult to argue against it because it is about social justice, about labour rights. There's no other question. This is a historical claim of the police that has been unattended for many years, being deceived, with lies. Here today is where we have to demonstrate patriotism, here today is where we have to get wet; now is when we have to face the police and the civilian guards. [[Applauds]] In 2008, when I was in the Unified Association of Civil Guards, I participated in a demonstration of police and civilian guards, and I was opened a file for serious misconduct. In 2008, that is, that this is not of today, this is not something that the police and the civilian guards have invented; no, this comes from many years ago. This is a historic claim. As early as 1992, there was an attempt to agree that in the end nothing was left. Today's law is supported not only by Jusapol - who has presented this popular legislative initiative - but by all the associations of the Civil Guard, by police unions; that is, there is an absolute consensus on this initiative. It is legitimate and fair, and that is why we, our parliamentary group, are going to vote yes. I want to end an issue that I think is important. The merit of getting labour rights for police and civilian guards is not from any political party of which we are here today. Neither of Podemos nor of Citizens nor of the PSOE nor of the PP, it is of the workers, who have gone out to the street to claim their rights with great dignity. [[applause]] I'm saying it so no one gets up here today to wear medals. It is the merit of all those men and women who work for the rule of law, for democracy and for our society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u4	At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u5	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that we are dealing with a popular legislative initiative and that, from the outset, deserves some consideration. Any popular legislative initiative has to be looked at with especially attentive eyes, especially friendly, as it ultimately emanates from the citizenry. This is about having. In it, in Catalonia, Justapol, it is not that it generates for a few weeks too many sympathies because they are uniting their work claim, fully legitimate, with other things with which we believe they should not be mixed. But this is about doing justice, not who you like or who you dislike. As the spokesman for Unite Podemos has said, it is a very old and fair claim. The Spanish state has some very good cops, perhaps the best in the world, and a Catalan independenceist says so. The Civil Guard is a very, very, very good police officer and here, in the Spanish State - and I am talking above all about the governments of the PP and not of the former minister of the PP, but of the former - we did what we could to make the base worse. Well, it came from before. What I'm going to say next didn't come from before, but what I'm going to say now, yes: unworthy wages, endless days, overtime at a price that is almost an insult, but still, I think the Civil Guard is still a great police force. I can't do the same praise - for the base, yes, of course, but above it, not - of the National Police Corps. I think that the PP government did get it from above - as the Polish proverb says, the fish begins to rot in the head - on the basis of politicizing the police dome, on the basis of tolerating things that are far more ugly than politicization, demeriting a police force that would not have to be demerited. That has to be said, that is, an important update of the National Police Corps is needed. In short, the law is necessary, but we also have to say that it is a delicate issue, which seems easy to approve, but it is not clear. For example, an inspector, according to which police forces, is a police manager and has at his orders twenty, forty, fifty and sometimes up to one hundred people. According to what other police force, an inspector is an investigator. Please, we cannot simplify by saying that we will pay the same to the inspectors of one body as to another. It requires a very refined analysis of all this or, if not, it will be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, that is, we will end up making new injustices for the future. Therefore, we will have to look at this law with magnifying glass. Anyway, we think the law is necessary. We do not like the one who presents it, although we have great respect for popular initiatives, so we find ourselves in a certain halt. We insist that, apart from the update that needs at least a part of the police forces, we are firm defenders that they are mostly professionals who act properly. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u6	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u7	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law for the effective equality and equal pay of the Spanish State Police, the origin of which is a popular legislative initiative proposing a series of measures for civil guard and national police officers. In particular, that the specific supplement to the salary of these bodies is not less than that of the autonomous and local police. And secondly, a number of salary issues relating to these two bodies exclusively. We see, therefore, that the title of the rule, its statement of reasons and its object do not fully correspond to the rest of its articulation, since those last two mandates to the Government have nothing to do with the salary matching between the Civil Guard and the National Police with the local or autonomous police as regards the specific complement. It is surprising that with regard to these mandates, the Government - concerning the complement of destiny and others - is being sought to interfere with the competence of the Government, in accordance with article 97 of the Constitution, to direct the civil and military administration through its executive and regulatory role, including collective bargaining. Collective bargaining, the content of which relates to the working conditions and salaries of the officials in charge. And collective bargaining that is articulated in the corresponding negotiating tables of each area between the General Administration and the representatives of the officials, as provided for in the Basic Staff Regulations. In short, we cannot give our support to an interference by this House in the right to collective bargaining of public employees and the General Administration of the State to determine the working conditions of those, especially for the economic and service consequences that they may entail, and whose scope and consequences are orphaned by the legislative initiative we are debating. In another matter, and with regard to the matching of the specific complement between the Civil Guard and the National Police with that of the local and autonomous police, I would like to point out that it will also not have the support of this parliamentary group. First of all, the term of comparison is inconcrete. With which local police refers to those existing in Spain and with which of the autonomous ones? Because the specific complement of each police is different when it relates to the collective negotiation of each local and autonomous administration, to the budgetary possibilities of each of them and to the public policies that they want to develop, discriminating according to the different political projects that confront electorally. Secondly, the general principle which is invoked: that the same salary must be paid to the same job, and for which reference is made to case law and state and European legislation, is only complied with in the field of each employer. If it were as the initiative intended in its explanatory statement and it was stated at the hearing in the Committee on the Interior, it would have to be concluded that all the European integral police would have to have the same salary; and the same could be said in this regard of all public service officials equivalent to the margins of their employer, which, as is clear, is not happening either in the public or in the private sphere. Thirdly, it is also not true that, as was stated in that appearance, all the money comes out of the general budgets of the State and of all the Spaniards and that, therefore, the additional remuneration must be equal. For the Basque Country and Navarre all budgetary revenues are own and with them are financed the own competences and those of the State not assumed, according to the additional first of the Constitution. For the rest of the autonomous communities, state funding only affects part of their income, and they are never finalists, because if it were, it would interfere with their political autonomy, and the same can be said of local authorities. In short, having received part of the revenues from the General Budgets of the State, the autonomous communities apply them, according to their political criteria, to the provision of the services of their competence, in accordance with their free political decision, with the only limitation of the basic regulations that can be applied to them. Therefore, the State does not pay the police; they are paid by each Administration. Fourthly, it is also not true, as the proponents claim, that the autonomous police have diminished powers in their territorial areas vis-à-vis those of the State Security Forces and Corpses in their areas. They are all integral police officers in their fields. And we do not agree that the quotation and reproduction of the final provisions, first, second and third, which are contained in the Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies for these autonomous police officers, has been omitted from the rationale of the initiative. Fifthly, the nature of the subject matter concerned is not that of public security, as the initiative continually maintains, but that of public service and self-organization. The State bases, in terms of civil servants' salaries, are found in EBEP, and these are the base salary, seniority, and the annual overall salary increase fixed in the budgets, while the supplementary salaries, as defined in EBEP, are outside the scope of the basics, and they are to be fixed in each budget to each Administration, once the corresponding collective bargaining has taken place, according to the budgetary availabilities of each of them. I'm finishing up, President...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u8	You have to finish, Mr. Legarda. You've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u9	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u10	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u11	Thank you, President. They tell me it's five minutes. As the turn in favor has consumed it We can, despite not exhausting it, speak five minutes in favor of this initiative in truth. [[Applauds]] There are 550 000 signatures of Spanish citizens supporting the Civil Guard, the police and their dignity; 550 000 signatures using a democratic mechanism. Today we will vote in favour with great pride and for the dignity of our civil guards and police and their families, and we will do so because this is a fair proposal, it is for justice; because it is equal - equal to the Spaniards in their working conditions - because it is democratic - it is a popular legislative initiative - because it guarantees the dignity of police, civilian guards and their families, and because it also defends a model of State and society that recognizes the effort and recognizes those who serve their country. [[Applauds]] It is just because it is defined in a single way that it is very simple and everyone will understand it: at the same job, the same salary. It doesn't matter what uniform you wear, it doesn't matter if you're a national police or an autonomous police; at the same effort, at the same job, the same reward. That's what this law stands for. There are imbalances of between 300 and 700 euros for the same job, for the mere fact of being a national body or belonging to an autonomous body. Look, when we have a criminal in front of us, when someone has to save our lives, when they have to help us at a difficult time in our lives, it doesn't matter if you're an autonomous police officer, a national police officer or a civilian guard; they're public servants who play their lives for us, for the Spaniards, so what less than paying the same to those who do the same. [[Applauds]] In addition, we have come this far because successive governments of the nation have traded on the salaries of autonomous police officers and have unbalanced the National Police and the Civil Guard in their equality. Yes, for many years the People's Party and the Socialist Party negotiated with the nationalists who, as the PNV has said here - the truth is that they have said it blatantly, they are very sincere - were only concerned about an autonomous police; they did not care about the other police. Socialist governments and popular governments for thirty years of concessions, marketing and cake with nationalists have made the Civil Guard and the Police today have between 20 and 30% less wages. With this law signed with a fist and letter of 550 000 Spaniards we will put an end to this injustice. [[Applauds]] This law equals the Spaniards, and a project of equality as Citizens for the Spaniards, how is it not going to vote in favour of the Spaniards, living where they live, working where they work, having the same working conditions and citizenship? We also do so because it is a democratic mechanism. Citizens advocate that people's legislative initiatives be dealt with and then vote in favour or against on the basis of what one thinks, but that they be dealt with quickly and that they come to the House for citizens to participate. This is also a mechanism of dignity and I want to stop here, in the dignity of the Civil Guard and the police. Look, today we are rewarding those who have fought against terrorism, those who have fought against corruption, those who have stopped those who wanted to strike a coup d'état in Catalonia and separate the Spaniards. Today we also honor here victims, victims of ETA. More than five hundred murders of ETA were civilian guards, police or members of the Armed Forces and, therefore, today we also remember so many people who have given their lives, who have dedicated themselves to working for this country by charging less, making great efforts, sacrificing their families, protecting the Spaniards and putting their lives at stake. So today is also a matter of dignity. [[Applauds]] We must return the effort to all those families and thank them. Today we are thanking you. I don't want to forget some witnesses I've known during this time. I was in Sant Andreu de la Barca with a woman of civil custody and mother of her children, of those children to whom some separatists dedicate themselves to pointing in schools in a shameful way, and she told me a phrase that will be recorded forever: We are here defending democracy. I'm proud of what my husband has done as a civilian guard. We've been in barracks where I've had to catch my kids and put them against the wall in the face of a bomb explosion and I'm not going to apologize for being a woman and for being a Civil Guard family. They must be honoured today with this vote in favour. [[Applauds]] Some parties in this House, the PNV, Esquerra, PDECAT, Podemos and the Socialist Party, are also upset that we pay tribute to the Civil Guard, but what bothers me is that they beat up the Civil Guard, their families and their women, and that they mount demonstrations to support the aggressors. That's what bothers me. [[Applauds]] And it bothers me that we can, instead of being with the victims, bring here, to Congress, the aggressors, as they brought them. Shame on me that you bring the aggressors here. [[Applauds.-Mr.Delgado Ramos: That's demagogy.]] So you defend the integrity of that salary but first defend the physical integrity of the people who charge that salary. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos: Are you going to tell me?]] Yes, yes, I'm very glad that you're voting for it today, really, because Pablo Iglesias says he's excited when you beat up the civilian guards and the police, but I don't, I'm more excited when you defend democracy. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, that's what Pablo Iglesias said in 2012 on a television show. I am glad that today is also their position, even because of the pressure of those signatures, even because of what these democrats stand for. [[Rumors]] In short, what bothers me is that people who work and leave their lives copper less; what bothers me is that being a civilian guard they call you provocative, because now it will turn out that living in a barracks charging less is provocative. For me it is the butchers of Mondragon, the aggressors, who throw stones at the Civil Guard; those are the ones who provoke. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, we play here the model of society: the prize to those who defend democracy and the punishment to those who like democracy, the prize to those who work with their efforts and sacrifice themselves throughout their lives throughout the national territory, often moving in very complicated conditions and enduring aggressions; it has been a while, by the way. I want to address the people attacked by Justapol in those demonstrations on my land, in Barcelona. Most Catalans want the Civil Guard and the National Police, it is the separatist politicians who ask you to leave Catalonia but many want the Civil Guard and the Police to be in Catalonia, to be in the Basque Country and to continue in Navarre. So thank you for everything you do. [[Applauds]] I end with a strong vote in favour because it is of justice, because it is of equality, because it is of dignity, because it rewards the effort and because I want to live in a country in which society recognizes those who leave their lives for us. We live better and we are happier because there is a civilian guard or a policeman defending our freedoms and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on their feet, to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u12	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought we were here today to talk about elements that unite, of elements that cohesive, and the Security Forces and Bodies are certainly a cohesive element; it is as cohesive as it was today as a great day for democracy, it was a great day to talk about the Security Forces and Bodies, it was a good day to talk about elements of cohesion and union and it was a good day to talk about how we all managed to bring this ILP to Congress. However, I believe that the work being done here today to use the State Security Forces and Bodies instead of as a cohesive element, such as this ILP, as an element of political confrontation is a mistake, and I believe that whoever does this never deserves to win an election. [[Applauds]] Look, I think today is the day for us in this House to address the whole of Spanish society, because it is the whole of Spanish society that has brought this ILP to the House; it is the joint work of professional associations of the Civil Guard, of police unions, of political parties, of a wide range of political parties in this House that has managed to bring with its efforts this political initiative. In one way or another, each within its own sphere, each with its own initiatives and proposals, it has been possible for civil society to legitimize the signing of a wage-equalization agreement between the representatives of the Police and the Civil Guard with the Government. In social terms, therefore, this initiative is a major success. Stay with this: this initiative is a huge success for civil society. It is not an initiative of anyone, it is an initiative of all, and it is this legitimacy that has led the Socialist Party Government to consider the wage equalization agreement as a binding state agreement and, as such, is acting to implement each and every one of its points. This is not the agreement that the Socialist Party would have signed, but this is the agreement that the Socialist Party is implementing by responsibility and by sense of state. Stay also with these two words: responsibility and sense of state. Only the intense work carried out by the current government has allowed police and civilian guards to charge their first payroll just two weeks ago with the amount fixed in the agreement, and that they can generally have guaranteed an increase in their salaries by more than 10% during 2018, which will increase to more than 20% by 2020. [[Spain Queen: But good!-Rumors]] In total, the figure amounts to EUR 807 million. On account of its responsibility, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has not set its position on the ILP until it has studied it in depth, until it has analysed each and every one of the considerations sent by the proponents to this group and until it has heard the views of all the parties involved in the wage equalisation agreement. As a result of this work, we think it appropriate to point out in today's debate - because that is where it corresponds, in today's debate - the main problems that we believe this ILP presents. First, it is a legislative initiative that runs counter to key aspects of the Spanish legal system, which is confronted with constitutional and legal precepts such as articles 2 and 137 of the Constitution; article 24 of the consolidated Basic Staff Statute; article 6 of Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March; article 3 of Organic Law 9/2015 of 28 July; and article 105 of Law 29/2014 of 28 November. Secondly, the initiative is based on a vision of the tremendously reductionist police model, because only Organic Law 2/1986 is taken into account, ignoring the autonomy statutes of the autonomous communities or Law 22/2009 of 18 December. Not understanding this federal and decentralized reality is certainly not understanding the Spanish political system. Thirdly, despite being a rule designed to promote equal pay for workers, its real effect would be the opposite, since there would be privileged workers within the General Administration of the State versus others. Fourthly, it is a wrong initiative in terms of the way to achieve equal pay. If the specific complement of police and civilian guards cannot be less than that of autonomous and local police, this implies that the State is subject to decisions on the amount and structure of such supplement by the autonomous communities and local administrations. In what form and on what basis could the State General Budgets then be drawn up if the chapter on remuneration of the Police and Civil Guard depends on the agreements that are made in some autonomous communities or in some municipalities? Despite all the legislative difficulties noted and being aware that the final text has little to do with the initiative put forward because there are many legal obstacles to be overcome, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking this legislative initiative into consideration for three fundamental reasons. First of all, because we advocate - and we have done so in this House - the direct participation of citizens in political life, and popular legislative initiative is one of its highest expressions. Secondly, because we believe and support the work that the professional associations of the Civil Guard and the police unions are doing to achieve compliance with the agreement, as well as consider their unanimous support for the processing of this ILP to be decisive. And lastly, because we believe that all initiatives that have to do with the defence of the State Security Forces and Corpses are positive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u14	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to begin by expressing the full support of the People's Group and the People's Party for the State Security Forces and Bodies, the National Police and the Civil Guard. We have magnificent professionals, a democratic police who under no circumstances deserve the aggressions they are suffering in some parts of Spain encouraged by independence parties. They don't deserve it at all. [[Applauds]] The People's Party's commitment to the State Security Forces and Bodies was enshrined in a historic wage-equalization agreement. I say this because Minister Zoido from the government - it is easy to promise from the opposition, but fulfilling from the government is more difficult - promised to start a path of equality and negotiated, agreed and concluded in the Official Gazette of the State an agreement of equality negotiated with the trade unions of the National Police representative and with the associations of the Civil Guard representative. [[Applauds]] I want to say that this agreement in no case, in the handling of the 2018 State General Budgets, was amended by any group. Therefore, I understand that no group was against that agreement, nor Citizens - Mr Rivera, much has said that that agreement was not good, but it is good; today it has not said it, but it has said it many times - neither can we nor the PSOE. I understand that when they did not amend, they were in favour of the agreement. I would also like to remind Podemos, Mr. Delgado, that his boss called powerful class thugs the State Security Forces and Corpses. That is regrettable and contradictory to your speech, Mr Delgado. I am very pleased that this agreement can be the place where we all come together, all the national police and all the civilian guards. It is a historic agreement, which is good for equality, but it has to be fulfilled in its entirety: the audit, the 300 million for the second activity, the retroactivity of 1 January 2018 and that the payment of 2019 and 2020 cannot be stopped if budgets are not approved, because it is fixed in the agreement that, if not, other legal figures will be used, that is, the actual decree. Gentlemen of the PSOE, do not threaten that if there are no budgets, there will be no equality because it has to be, because it is contained in the agreement. Read the amendment they have tabled in the Senate, where they say that if there are no budgets, there will be no pay for equal pay. This agreement, this concentration of all, also of the proponents who accompany us today from the rostrum and those who are on the street, is a meeting point, but we must demand full compliance with the agreed agreement. The People's Group has always been in favour of accepting popular legislative initiatives in order to respect the people who have signed them and supported them, and more so in this case, because there are 550 000 citizens who signed between November 2017 and February 2018 to ensure equal pay. I have to point out these dates because the equalization agreement is March 2018, that is, that in March 2018 that agreement complies with what we were asked for by 550 000 Spaniards. I also have to say that in recent weeks Jusapol has moved us that what he wants is not to break that agreement, but to strengthen it, to strengthen it, and that he also wants the development of the eighth clause, which provides for a law on the remuneration of the State Security Forces and Bodies. That is the meeting that we can hold today among all: Civil Guard associations, police unions and most of the political parties in this House. It's a great success. [[Applauds]] And I have to say that, although the People's Group sees that the text of the initiative may have important legal flaws, it is going to host a tweet from the Jusapol Association, which said that it is not afraid to change and improve the text, but wants to develop the eighth clause of the wage equalisation agreement. We are therefore going to use this popular legislative initiative as a perch to hang the development of clause 8 because we believe that Mr Sánchez's Government has failed to comply with what was required by the agreement in clause 8 which was to process a draft wage bill. It has not been brought to this House by the Government of Sánchez and has not begun any negotiations with trade unions and associations. So, do we have to trust each other? I don't think so. We have to be demanding, and the People's Party is going to be demanding using the ILP perch that have presented us with 550 000 Spaniards who want equality so that the government will comply with the agreement that the Government of the People's Party, the representative associations of the Civil Guard and the representative unions of the National Police signed and agreed in March of this year. In the People's Party we are very proud of our State Security Forces and Bodies, of the agreement we have reached for equality and also of being able to process this ILP to demand full compliance with the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u17	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the defence of social coexistence, institutional neutrality and national symbols. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Montserrat Montserrat has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Catalans need an opportunity to return to harmony, to regain the bonds of friendship and understanding, to look back in our eyes with fraternity and to have the two Catalonias again shake hands and reconcile themselves within the framework of the law. The Catalans need that opportunity to complete the separatist process, which has only managed to open misunderstandings between family members, friends and colleagues. This opportunity will only come with a democratic regeneration of the Catalan institutions. Only if they recognize the catalanity of all Catalans, only if they recognize that the constitutionalists have the same rights as the rest of Catalans will we achieve the longed-for agreement. Only if the Catalan institutions respect the feelings, dignity and freedom of all Catalans can the bridges of respect that should never have been boosted be rebuilt. Regrettably, today the partisan, propagandistic and sectarian use of institutions and the abusive occupation of public space make it impossible to agree, because there is no agreement without freedom and the abuse of institutions and public space by independence what is intended is to cohibit and curtail the freedom of those we think or feel differently. The tactics used and driven by the Generalitat de Torra make democracy lose its good name. They serve to point us out, they serve to silence us, they serve to impose the will of 47% of Catalans on that of the other 53% of Catalans. Our obligation as democrats is that that 53% of the Catalans that we are now invisible by the institutions will regain freedom and our rights, which must be the same - no more or less - as those of the other 47% of the population. While the socialist government looks elsewhere, in Catalonia separatism totalizes public spaces with symbols that offend, with symbols of exclusion, with symbols of hatred and confrontation and that outrage the symbols of all, the national, autonomous and also local symbols. While the Government of Sánchez negotiates in Lledoners the General Budgets of the State with the enemies of Spain, these same enemies use their public offices and institutions for partisan purposes, breaking the binding institutional and ideological neutrality. The Socialist Party has gone even further, because it has said yes to the handling of the proposal to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the rise of terrorism. You are undermining the institutions and, therefore, democracy, but I will tell you one thing: your partners, the independenceists, will never be satisfied. They cannot calm the tiger by letting him devour our democracy, because it is precisely to put an end to democracy and its institutions that independence seeks. Democracy is precisely the obstacle to the nationalist's desire for power. Let's strengthen democracy. This proposal for a law is a strengthening of our democracy. The problem in Catalonia is that the Generalitat has become the CDRs, the kale borroka, an apparatus of agitation and social tension. The Generalitat of the supremacist Torra, of the partner of Sánchez, subsidizes the confrontation and puts at risk the social and democratic coexistence that proclaims our Constitution. The stellates and symbols in favor of coups in the balconies of the institutions and the sectarian occupation and exclusion of the public space generate confrontation, as we have seen with regrettable incidents between Catalans last Saturday in Barcelona, and are therefore an attack on the freedom of the constitutionalists, whom we want to corner and silence. The Catalan constitutionalists see freedom threatened and a Socialist Party that has abandoned us, or worse, than to stay a few months longer in the Moncloa has put our future in the hands of separatism and the worst populism in Europe. Perhaps those who live in the bubble of TV3 or Moncloa do not realize, but these tactics of imposing and signalling totalitarianism are having their effect in Catalonia. Do not be mistaken, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because those who bear ties, in doing so, are pointing out to those who do not bear ties, they are confronting us and dividing us. [[applause]] Do not be deceived, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, in Catalonia there is no reduction of tension, there is fear and silence resulting from coercion. Those of us who know Catalonia, we know what I mean, but it is that it has also been statistically counted with surveys. Without going further, the one published by El Periodico two weeks ago confirmed that the vast majority of Catalan constitutionalists, 80.7%, feel that the process has damaged coexistence, and most of them express that they are afraid and prefer not to talk about the political situation in Catalonia. We are being constrained by freedom of expression in the heart of 21st-century Europe. And, ladies and gentlemen, in Catalonia we are the constitutionalists who suffer, the ones who see our rights and freedoms violated because of the nationalist abuses on the streets and in the institutions with the complicity of the Socialist Party. Do not confuse calmly with fear, do not confuse coexistence with silence. Institutions must be a place of encounter and confrontation of ideas, of all ideas, whatever they may be, and therefore it is essential to preserve neutrality, objectivity and impartiality. The public spaces, our squares, our beaches, the roundabouts, the public streets of Catalonia and the rest of Spain must be an area of freedom, coexistence, neutrality; a space in which we can look back into the eyes of those we think differently; a space in which we can once again hold hands to continue working for coexistence and law in Catalonia. Nationalism seeks to drive us out of our peoples, wants us out of the major festivals of our peoples, wants us out of public life; they want us to get away from Catalonia, they suffocate us, they make us the social and also economic and cultural vacuum. This is an example, this is the beach of everyone, the beach of Llafranc. [[Show a picture]] Mr. Tardà, look at these pictures. [[Show another photograph]] This is the public square of Vic's market. This is a space for everyone. Today to say no to the processing of this proposal of law is to say that they want us out of our peoples, that they want us banished from our Catalonia, that they want us to continue to stifle our freedom, our way of thinking and our ideas. I do not think socialist Members like and tolerate what they are seeing. For this reason it is a unique opportunity to pass this bill, because it is a unique opportunity for all democrats to defend social coexistence, institutional neutrality and national symbols. That is why the People's Party is presenting this bill. It is a bill for the defence of our democracy. I'm gonna say more. The aim is to ensure that the use of public space is respectful of the values and constitutional principles, that it is a place for the coexistence of all Spaniards, for concord and not for the disunity of them. The proposal for a law contains the principle of coexistence and it will be the public authorities who will promote the conditions for that principle of democratic coexistence to be real and effective and those who will remove the obstacles that hinder its fullness and those that promote the agreement of citizens. The proposed law also reflects the recent jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, which defends neutrality and rejects the partisan use of symbols in public spaces. I'll tell you more. We have been in democracy for forty years and we have progressed together, each from its own ideas. We have regulated that the party symbols, during the fifteen days of electoral campaign - we are about to start the electoral campaign in Andalusia - are placed in concrete, regulated and at a specific time, having to withdraw them when the campaign ends, precisely because the legislators have always sought freedom, but also neutrality. I would not like, and it is unthinkable - this is said by a person of the People's Party - to go to a school or hospital and have a public official serve me with a plaque of the People's Party, because it would be against freedom, neutrality and the exercise of his functions as an official. [[Applauds]] Because we, above all, are democrats and therefore do not want teachers in schools or public workers to attend with a symbol of hatred, we do not want them to adopt our children with a symbol that separates, that is sectarian, that is hate. I will change the subject, to see if I can convince any Member of the Socialist Party. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that someone went to a police station to report a crime of gender-based violence or sexual assault and found a national police officer with a pin in his lapel with a sexist symbol? It would be unthinkable. Members of the Socialist Party are not allowed to say no to the processing of this law which defends coexistence, freedom and neutrality. We proudly defend our symbols, we proudly defend the freedom of each and every Spaniard. Mr. Tardà, I defend your freedom every day. Defend mine, too. Be brave, don't be cowardly, and say yes today, so that you, from your ideas, and I, with mine, can be together in Vic Square and we can be together on Llafranc Beach defending each of our ideas, but always defending the freedom, coexistence and neutrality of public spaces, the neutrality of public institutions and the neutrality of public officials in the exercise of their functions. [[applause]] Together we defend our national symbols, but also our autonomous and local symbols. We defend together the lady and not the stellate, which is a symbol of hatred, which have put us in all the public squares of Catalonia and which neither defends nor represents all Catalans. And to you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I will tell you that this afternoon you have a great responsibility. Today they will show us whether it is this advanced and modern European Socialist Party that really defends democracies, that really defends the freedom, rights and freedoms of each and every Spaniard. Today, if you say no, you will not only betray the democracy that has cost us so much and that it has cost our parents and grandparents so much of all political ideologies, but also their own principles, the principles of socialism, so many Spaniards who throughout history have voted for them many times. Do a real democratic exercise today, be true democrats and say yes to democracy, constitutional values, freedom and, above all, coexistence. Do not let the independenceists suffocate people or force them to flee their peoples and not participate in the public life of their peoples. Prove that you are those Democrats of 1978. If they say no today, you'll be traitors. Thank you. [[Some Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz spoke first of all at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of Spaniards who appreciate it, respect it and want it for every Dani Mateo who sounds like the mucos with the flag of Spain; millions, ladies and gentlemen. We have already positioned ourselves on other occasions on the respect and consideration that national symbols deserve for us because, if the homeland is the people, the flag that identifies each country and every nation is the flag of the people and therefore deserves respect, the respect that people deserve. It is true that there are some who work for the rupture of Spain and the separation of their territories from some institutions and therefore need to radiate confrontation and hatred. The truth is that we already know it, the strategy is triple and always the same: first, to invisible the national symbols where they can - in Navarra, for example, the Government of Navarra vetoes the Princess of Viana to deliver the Prize of the Culture of Navarra that bears her name -; secondly, to replace the national symbols with others that are not their own and are imposed where they have illegal power, for example, the Basque ikurriña in Navarra; and thirdly, to encourage those who despise, attack, ridicule or offend them. We already know the strategy. We therefore welcome the initiative. We will support the consideration and hopefully we can reverse this concerted strategy of attacking national symbols. In any case, it is true that we can confront those who openly stand against the symbols of all by means of more laws, it is true, but the most effective are the Marc Márquez and company, Sandra Sánchez, Lydia Valentín, Carolina Marín, the girls of football, the girls of the jockey, the Spanish Golf Navy, led by Carlota Ciganda or Jon Rahm, but also thousands of scientists, artists, entrepreneurs, workers, politicians, military, police, civilian guards and thousands and thousands of Spaniards, millions, who each day rise up to work proud also of those symbols and serve the people that this flag represents. Those who offend, do not ask others to celebrate their offenses and, if possible, when justice weathers and condemns their offenses, do not move their frustrations, their melancholy or their responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u22	Pick it up on. With the Constitution that supports the 1978 regime, which did not have the backing of Basque citizenship and which denies us our own identity as a people, they want to impose on us from the People's Party what we should think and even feel, and what symbols we should recognize. Nothing new. For decades they have tried to change our feelings and thoughts by criminalizing the Basque country, limiting its officiality to certain areas in Nafarroa, even if it is its own, something that in the ignorance of our history leads you to say the opposite to Mr. Married, or by banning the Ikurriña in Nafarroa with the help of UPN and PSN, but all this has been in vain: neither has our feeling of belonging to a nation, Euskal Herria, nor has our desire to be what our citizenship freely decides, but it has led you to be residual in our territory. You seek to eradicate by sanctions that symbolology which, even representing a majority, is uncomfortable to you, although the public space should respond to the plurality of society, a true instrument of coexistence, and not to the imposition of a certain symbolology, in exclusivity, above all, even of local autonomy. You were annoyed in the past at Euskal Herria by the request for the repatriation of the Basques and now in Catalonia by the yellow ties, but not by the advocacy of Francoism that you have never pursued. I ask them: If it were intended to denounce the macho violence by means of a poster placed in the institutions, would it also be persecuted or would it be accepted? You want to impose a single way of seeing things, knowing that in Euskal Herria and Catalonia a majority wants to change them. And since they have never been able to persuade and convince - they only know how to impose - they bring us this law in order to try to silence the voice of the citizenry that bothers them, and that, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is pure fascism; the same totalitarianism that leads them to Altsasu, a diverse people, solidarity, resistance, which with dignity and serenity faces his story, which responds to attempts at criminalization, shows the weakness of the State that makes water and does not convince. Altsasu, Euskal Herria and Catalonia will be nothing more than what their citizenship decides, by many laws limiting rights that you present to us.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Montserrat, clear and clear!: You have no legitimacy to speak of either the Constitution or the flag or common symbols. You're a rotten party to the bone marrow. You are a party that houses deputies who claim that the extreme right does not want to end the democratic regime, or the number two of your party that praises Franco Spain. You have put as a member of the General Council of the Judiciary a senator of the People's Party who denied that the bombings on Castellón were the work of the Nazis. You - and very clear - with your corruption, with your cuts and with your sympathy for the extreme right have passed the Constitution and the flag through the arch of triumph. Lessons in patriotism and democracy, not one, not one. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u25	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u26	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Montserrat, before I go into the subject, in the notes I have here, I want to say that I am very saddened that the former Equality Minister dares to compare the people who have yellow ties with the people who defend male violence; among other things, because it is a lack of respect, first of all, for the victims of gender violence; it is a lack of respect for their work and it is a lack of respect for us. You should have learned something about that in your passage through the ministry. You needed a miracle to make square in this very discourse democratic regeneration and this proposition of law that you present today. Minister, today the PSOE will also have to prove to you if you are the Democrats of 1978, but you have shown us that you are the coup player of 1936, because this bill has the sole objective of preventing me from taking this yellow tie wherever I go, this bill has the sole objective of restricting the freedom of those who make politics and win elections, unlike you. If you want to defend your ideas in Catalonia do one thing: win the elections. They have 4 deputies from 135 in the Parliament of Catalonia. My question is: Do you want to impose your ideas on my political actions? Well, you win the election. If the citizens of Girona burn pictures of the king it is because they do not feel the institution of the monarchy as their own. That's what should worry you, not stop people from burning pictures of the king, because then what happens to you, that the European Court of Human Rights takes away your colors and tells you that burning pictures of the king is part of freedom of expression. That's the way it is, and it should be the way it is. What you should do is not forbid people to burn pictures of the king, because people can burn pictures of the king; what you should ask yourself is why people burn pictures of the king. Perhaps Botswana has something to do with it, just like Urdangarin has something to do with it, just like the speech of October 3rd has something to do with the contempt of Catalonian citizens for the Spanish monarchy. That's what they should be worried about. You say: the public authorities will encourage attitudes of respect for the unity of Spain. Well, look, Your Honor, I'm an independentist, I'm a public authority and I'm not going to defend the authority of Spain or the unity of Spain because you tell me this in a bill that is undoubtedly the most frank gesture I've seen in this House since I've been a Member. I would tell you something else: how little should you want Catalonia, Mrs Montserrat, that for your party to cast a handful of votes in Andalusia you throw us into the square in this cruel and beastly way! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, we are going to vote no to this initiative for everything it represents.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u28	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of a proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group that establishes the regulation on the symbols that can be used in buildings where public services, offices or units are housed, and in roads and public places where citizen life is involved. To this end, it is determined which persons are obliged, their duties, infringements and sanctions by amending for the latter purposes Law 19/2013, as regards good governance and the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, of the basic status of the public employee. On the other hand, the proposal establishes by reference what are the official symbols of the different territorial-based entities, determining that anyone else who uses public authorities and employees will be illegal either in public units, or on roads and public places. It also calls upon both senior officials and public employees of any Administration to prevent individuals, citizens from using symbols, slogans or teachings of a partisan nature on public roads and places. The proposal states in its explanatory statement that it sets out a catalogue of infringements and sanctions for authorities and employees with regard to violations of the principle of institutional neutrality in the use of symbols in what may be demerit or offending, and that they do not reach the criminal charge contained in Chapter 6 on abuses against Spain. It could be said that the proposal comes to establish a sort of law on citizen security, a law on gags for senior officials and public officials with regard to their conduct concerning official symbols and which do not reach criminal reproach, and also for citizens by preventing them from using party symbolism on public roads. It draws attention to the fact that at this time, in which this House has taken into consideration a proposal by the Confederal Group We can on the revision of several chapters of the Penal Code for confronting freedom of expression - in particular, one of them is that relating to the outrages against Spain and its symbols - the People's Parliamentary Group proposes not only indirectly to maintain the criminal charge, but to extend it to an administrative sanctioning charge for those conducts that do not fall within the criminal charges. In addition, it draws double attention not only to the reform of the Criminal Code to which I referred, but also to the fact that at the present time we are reviewing in paper the same Law on Citizen Security and its violations regarding, among others, conduct that already has a criminal charge, and the PP comes to propose new administrative sanctions; a sort, as I said, of Citizen Security Act bis for public offices and officials for those conducts that have no criminal content. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will not support this proposal and will not support it by defining the space on which the obligations of senior officials and officials are projected. This space does not refer only to public or real estate units in which public services or offices are housed or even their behaviour towards them during the performance of the tasks of their job. What we do not share at all is that the generality of the officials becomes guardians of the observance of this administrative law of official symbols in the streets and public places as a task of their work, they find themselves where they are and outside the day and hour; and no longer just to respect the official symbols, but also so that neither they nor the citizens in general can use those others that according to their ideology are adequate and that can confront what the officials represent as the unity of Spain or the same diversity of the nations and regions that make up it. The same thing we say for public employees, we say it for senior officials. To claim otherwise outside of his office and from official offices in terms of the use of unofficial symbolism seriously violates freedom of expression and political pluralism. Nor can we agree that the institutional neutrality that must govern the way public authorities act should be extended to a purported institutional neutrality of public roads and places, that it only becomes an obligation to preserve them for the authorities, and that no one can use them with symbols or slogans or teachings that, without being criminally wrongful, imply demerit or insult or contempt of officials or those of a partisan nature who contradict what the officials symbolize. Ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal, what is left of the freedom of ideological expression if citizens are deprived of the most important space for expression, such as roads and public spaces? Unless, logically, that expression spreads a hate speech or an efficient incitement to violence. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, it is more important to protect freedom of expression than the need to protect the dignity of symbols and what they represent. [[EAJ-PNV]] We are not in a debate about the symbols and dignity they represent, but about democracy, and democracy must prevail in the event of conflict over dignity and institutions, even if the manifestations against the symbols are offensive or unjust and much more if they are only an expression of political ideologies over the unity of the State or the prosecution of independenceist leaders. It cannot be ignored that this proposal is a legal response to certain situations that are said to be occurring in some parts of Spain. - You mean Catalonia. The lack of awareness on the part of the People's Parliamentary Group of freedom of expression, that freedom of expression also extends to ideas that may offend, shock or disturb, should not lead to restricting them especially when it comes to criticism or political ideology. As the Ombudsman pointed out in his institutional statement of 3 September last, institutional neutrality must preside over the action of the public authorities in their offices through the non-exhibition of unofficial symbols, while in the street and public spaces it must preside over political pluralism, avoiding, yes, any form of monopoly or exclusion because it is not unlimited. But from there to forbid the use of party symbolism as the initiative claims, there is a long stretch that we will not support in its journey. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a fraternal hug to comrade Oscar Reina, spokesman for the Andalusian Workers' Union, to whom the police have gone to their house today to look for him. [[Applauds]] He's been looking for him at his house accused of insulting the Crown. In other words, we are in a society where the police are going to look for a free citizen for having freely thought: Oscar Reina, spokesman for the Andalusian Workers' Union. We're with you, Oscar. Cheers! Mrs Montserrat, I remember you once told me that you had some independent family member. I guess they kicked him out of the family. [[Rumors]] I think if I had an independent family member who was like you say we are, they would have kicked him out of the family. [[Montserrat Montserrat: You haven't heard me]] In my family, my close family, there are people, and not a few, who are not independenceists, and we are a true family and we want the same now as before. Ask yourself where the ideology ends and where it begins and where the human quality of people begins. Point. [[Applauds]] It is curious that the first symbol of the Spanish nation to which this bill refers is the monarchy, an illegitimate monarchy, a monarchy sponsored by one of the most murderers of the twentieth century, Mr. Francisco Franco. And you know that it was not the people who in 1978 had the opportunity to decide whether what was appropriate for the Spanish State was the monarchy sponsored by the dictator or to regain republican legality and legitimacy. I think you should start here, start by saying that there is nothing legitimate if it does not pass through the ballot box, and the monarchy that you defend has never passed through the ballot box, has an original sin that is to have been an accomplice to the dictatorship and not to have been revalidated by the citizenship of the Spanish State. But let's not be fooled, we know perfectly well that this proposal of law is another twist in repressive legislation to solve in the traditional way of the Spanish right the Catalan problem: garrotzo, repression and death, through judges, Police, Civil Guard and, if it is required - history has shown this - also through the Army and, of course, burying dialogue and negotiation; master formulas - these are the master formulas - of a true democracy. It is curious that those who refuse even to disappear the plaques on the streets dedicated to fascists and criminals, those who refuse even to change the nominclator of the streets say that the public space is not occupied by party symbols. We Republicans, ladies and gentlemen, do believe in the freedom of expression of all citizens, including civil servants. In advanced societies we take criticism of the symbols of the State as the exercise of a fundamental right, precisely what you intend to end with this proposal of law. Of course, we do not agree with neutrality. Why don't we agree on neutrality? Because it means not questioning the status quo and because it means defending the existing hegemony, that is, criminalizing criticism of institutions. Preventing by law the question of the monarchy, for example, is not neutral; it is to be monarchical. We will continue to argue that official symbols can be displayed in public spaces precisely because they are not neutral. The LGTBI flag is not neutral; the red link on AIDS Day is not neutral; the lilac link against macho violence is not neutral; the banners of `We want to host refugees' are not neutral, and, of course, the yellow link that denounces the existence of political prisoners and exiles in the Spanish state is not neutral. [[Applauds]] Public buildings are not neutral, nor do they have to be. You confuse not sharing the symbol with a partisan symbol, and they are two very, very different things, forgetting that a democratic society is based on contrast of views and ideological diversity. You should know, as a good constitutionalist and person defending the Spanish Constitution, that Article 20.1 says that above all there is freedom of expression. In short, this proposition of law is a symbol, but it is the symbol of its defeat, of the defeat that it implies always having to be imposed by force, to impose by force a flag, for example, in Catalan territory, and to impose by force on a king, a monarch, which is the example of what has been said: for them, for them, they are only Catalans. They try to win, but they have never tried to convince and, of course, freedoms, democracy, can never be subordinated to the sacred unity of Spain alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u32	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you bring us today a proposal for a law that we believe is unnecessary and surprising, sincerely. Perhaps those parliamentary forces that we have little quota would like to take advantage of these things for matters that really are to do politics and not partyism, as is often the case. I believe that the Spanish Constitution captures and reinforces all the values of our symbols at the moment; in addition, there is a Flag Act dating back to 1981. Finally, we believe that it is not a necessary law and that this public space of the Congress of Deputies is precisely to debate bills that really interest all citizens and not only, Mrs Montserrat - forgive me for telling you - to do electoralism at some point. How can you now tell us this when you have been negotiating with the members of the Socialist Party for two or three weeks, with all the independenceists and with the populists the General Council of the Judiciary? How can you tell us this when you are partners in perverting a power of the state as is the judicial power? [[Applauds]] You don't have any objection, none, to handing over the institutions as if it were some kind of supermarket choosing judges and, yes, you do come now and bring us a bill that you should have kept in a drawer to try to appropriate a few more votes. We honestly do not understand it, and we do not understand it, because the stubbornness of these last few weeks only reflects the mediocrity in which they are becoming, lords of the People's Party. Forgive me for telling you, really, because I'm so sorry. Look at you, Europe has had to pull our ears a lot of times through the Greek report - I think you know it perfectly - until at the beginning of this year, when you have done it again because you tell us that the judiciary is not independent. Well, because you don't listen and you cling to sanchism to compromise your last collections of putting back those people you care about instead of letting the judges, the professionals, be the ones who choose the true Judicial Power. It seems to me tremendous that it was Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias who agreed to this election under the watchful gaze of Mr Pablo Iglesias. How can you say who will be the president of the Supreme Court before it is elected by the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary, who are the ones who have to choose it? How can we see this this morning on the news? And then you come here and you talk to us and the Socialist Party about defending public spaces? But what is the defense of the public spaces you want? What defense of public spaces do you mean? Where was the People's Party government when the national anthem was being played? What did he say? Do you want me to tell you what your government, the government of your party, was saying when they were doing those beats to the king of Spain and the national anthem in football matches at the end of the King's Cup? [[Applauds]] Well, look, what Mr Zoido, at the time Minister of the Interior, said was that it was sentimental violence. Mrs Levy, your party partner, also Catalan, what she said was that that was nothing but a lack of respect. That was disrespectful, and this is something else? Why don't you, when you're ruling, really defend the Spanish nation and only when you've lost power? Why do they only do that and align themselves with sanchism when they have lost power and when they are ruling they are unable to do anything? [[Applauds]] We would really like you, who are a party, I understand, constitutionalist, to defend the unity of Spain always, but when you are in government, when you are in opposition or when, as in the Catalan case, you are nothing, because we do win the elections in Catalonia. I'm telling you as a party that won the elections in Catalonia. Of course we must preserve the public spaces, of course we must preserve those spaces for all, of course we must do so, but do you know what Mr. Married tells us when we are going to withdraw those ties? Do you know what Mr. Married says? Mr. Married says, "Man, that generates chryspation. That generates chryspation; does it no longer generate chryspation? Now is when it seems to you that it does not generate chryspation. Look, the truth is that what can't be done is to hesitate when it comes to really defending what is the common space of all Spaniards, what is the common home of all Spaniards, Mrs Montserrat. You can't hesitate the way you do it. You can't hesitate when the other day in Alsasua Mr. Borja Semper, who I understand is also a person of his party, tells us that we don't have to go spread the rift. Is that spreading the rift? So, according to this law of yours, is Alsasua's act to extend the rift or is it really to defend the public space of all Spaniards? Or is it only when you're interested? [[Applauds]] We do not understand this proposal very well, and I also say this to the Socialist Party. It seems to me that your spokesman, Mr Ander Gil, the other day was exactly the same as Mr Borja Semper. How can your spokesman in the Senate tell us the constitutionalists that we went to Alsasua to defend Spanish space, to defend the civilian guards, to defend the flag of all the Spaniards, that what we were doing there was perverting democracy, that what we were doing there was crisparing? Is that chrispar? Do we have to ask and ask Mr Marlaska to tell us what the list of cities we can go to and which cities we cannot go to? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] I will end with a quote that says: Our flag is not a symbol of a political party because it is to be a symbol of everyone; it is not a symbol of the right or of the left because it is to wave across the entire institutional ideological spectrum; it is not a symbol of the military even if they keep and honor it, but of all citizens. This was said by Mr José Bono, a real socialist, not a sanchoist; a person who defends what the Socialist Party has been, not a person who defends the sanchoism that pacts with populists and independenceists how to destroy this country. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u33	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u34	Hello. Very nice late. Sometimes fiction illuminates reality, so today I want to start by telling you a story about the Argentine author Luisa Valenzuela. This story is located in a place and at an unknown time, and tells the story of John. John wants to send his beloved, Mariana, a letter, but he fears that it will be intercepted by the censorship of the State. To avoid it, he goes to work in the censorship offices themselves with the aim of being himself who gives way to the letter. Gradually it goes through all the departments of the office and learning well the censorship. When he finally reaches his goal, the department that processes the letters, is so intoxicated by the task of censoring, prohibiting and suppressing that, when he finds his own letter, he does not hesitate to censor it and denounce its author: himself. Juan is shot at dawn. As I have just told you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I have no doubt that in the beginning your intentions may have been honest, but you have entered into such a spiral of prohibition, repression and censorship with your actions, with your policies, with the proposed law that you bring here today, which harms, and a great deal, that Spain to which you intend to defend. Because the Spain that you propose is a grey and sad Spain, a Spain that denies diversity and plurality, a Spain in which there is neither dissent nor the right to think differently, a Spain where the institutions and the streets are occupied by a single ideology, its own, and where a right as fundamental as that of freedom of expression is forever barred. But, look, they've got a whole town in front of them. In fact, they have many peoples in front of them who, united by fraternity, are not going to allow you to take us to times past and dark; they are not going to allow us to renounce one of our greatest treasures, plurinationality, plurinational wealth, and today you are going to show that what we were saying about 'no-pass' was serious, because today this House is going to give a no-braining to this new attack, unprecedented on its part, to freedom of expression in our democracy. I wanted here to remind the prisoners and political prisoners of all kinds who are now in our country's prisons and again regret the prosecution's accusation. For this, and as my admired companion at the City Hall of Barcelona explained very well, Gerardo Pisarello, Jordi Cuixart ran into rebellion for shouting: 'They will not pass'. This is a democratic cry that has been used and we will continue to use to say no to repression and yes to democracy, so we will repeat it as many times as it takes and much more when today someone like you wants to take away our right to the word, to the manifestation and to the public space. [[Applauds]] Necessary mention here to comrade Óscar Reina and is also obliged to repeat in his case that 'they will not pass'. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, have long been lost in this legislature. They have lost the north in a legislature that has opened up a path of hope and illusion in society. Neither you nor your citizens' partners know very well where to go and you see that you have chosen the most harmful path for Spanish society. Look, from feminism we often say that constant competition for manhood in men often hides fragile masculinities and many complexes. Gathering this parallelism, I have to tell you and the ladies and gentlemen of Citizens that when someone comes here week after week, press conference after press conference, with the only argument to see who has the biggest flag or to see who makes the most unbridled proposal, is that perhaps you have a deep complex in your country project, an increasingly fragile country project that increasingly excludes more people. Today they have come here again, and certainly not, to talk about the process and thus justify the path of repression. It's as if they've done well by that way! Remember that this was the strategy that took them away from the government. This was the strategy that brought Spain and its Government to the world for repressing and beating peaceful citizens with ballot papers and ballot boxes. You represent a threat to the coexistence not only of the peoples, but also of women, migrant people, workers and pensioners. And we don't say it alone, the data from the last CIS say: more than 90% of citizens believe that the rift has increased and almost the same figure wants dialogue bridges to be built. Do you know, gentlemen of the PP, which party appears as the main culprit? Yours. And do you know which political leader people blame? Mr. Married. It's a shame you're not here today because I wanted to send you some messages, but I hope you'll take note of them and send them to you. Much has had to be done by you, Mr. Married, so that in such a short time the citizenry may already see you as the main threat to the coexistence of this country. Not in vain is Mr. Married the author of those famous statements in which he said - and I quote -: The pit of I don't know who and the grandfather's war are carcasses. It is told by the granddaughter of a Republican fighter who ended up in a concentration camp on a beach in France: we are not going to allow him to continue vilifying the memory of our grandparents and grandmothers. And we will not allow them to continue to defame the history of this country's struggle for democracy. [[Applauds]] Here the biggest carcass there is, deep and in shape, is you; that's right, with Albert Rivera following him very closely, behind the scenes. [[Applauds]] And as a woman, as a feminist, they will allow me to send you another message, another warning: our right to abortion is not touched, not a step back. If you go that way, we'll show you the exit door, as we already did with your predecessor, Mr. Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, with initiatives like this they show that for you to do politics means to impose by force, that you are not trying to convince anyone. They can shout and demand as many times as they want the king to symbolize the indivisible unity of the Spanish nation, but when so many people do not feel as their own the figure of the monarch is that perhaps the problem is not of the people, but of a lord who embodies an idea of Spain that simply no longer corresponds to reality. The Spain of the Crown is so narrow that there is only one man at the top; in democratic Spain, by which we and we push, we all fit, there are men and women of all ages, origin and condition, who speak different languages and feel different flags, some even - see what sacrilege - do not even feel any. Finally, I turn very briefly to the Catalan groups, to Esquerra and to the PDECAT. We may differ in many things, but I am convinced that we share that neither Catalonia nor any other people in the State nor in the world deserve to go through the lost decade of darkness and persecution of everything that Spain does not represent of its symbols and ideology. Let us make possible the majority of progress that prevents them from coming back and avoid becoming the blocking minority that will put two back in the Moncloa, and who knows if three, parties that will take us back to the past and to the darkness. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u35	Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u36	Thank you, President. Mrs Montserrat - you are certainly watching this debate with your phone in hand - today you, the People's Party, are presenting us with an initiative that does not intend to defend national coexistence, seeks to pin it down and damage it. [[Mr. Llorens Torres: What a barbarity!]] With this initiative you do not want to increase affective adherence to national symbols; on the contrary, you intend to turn them into a bold weapon. You do not pursue social peace or peaceful coexistence, you just seek to fuel the fire of conflict, you just want to spread and multiply tensions. They are convinced - regrettably - that the worse for Spain and the Spanish, the better for the People's Party. The People's Party still does not learn any lessons from the many that our recent history offers us. For forty years, Spain was not recognized in symbols of which the dictatorship had been appropriated and which for many represented subjection and oppression. The 1978 Constitution opened a democratic regime that reconciled all Spaniards with a new idea of Spain: Spain of freedoms, Spain of social progress, and modern and European Spain. And with that idea of Spain, we all made our own and embraced symbols that are of all and that you have no right to appropriate them and, less so, to use them for partisan benefit by provoking political conflict and generating social confrontation. [[applause]] This is the first lesson you have not learned. Nor do they seem to have learned anything from the last forty years of constitutional democracy that they seem to defend so vehemently. Ladies and gentlemen, our most precious heritage is the rights and freedoms we enjoy. If anything, we should be proud of having placed Spain at the forefront of the defence of individual and collective fundamental rights and freedoms and in all orders: civil, social, economic and political. This is what Europe has recognised. This is how we have gained prestige before Europe and the world. This is a precious good that we must preserve and not trivialize. But every time the European Court of Human Rights condemns Spain, there is evidence of a weakness that we should not ignore or despise, but quite the contrary, recognize and remedy, because it also represents an erosion of that prestige that has cost so much to conquer. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Mrs Montserrat, are committed to continuing to introduce restrictions on rights and more repressive measures. The European Court of Human Rights has already told you that the European Convention requires a broad and generous understanding of freedom of expression, a generosity that Spanish democracy can afford because the greatness and strength of democracy have no rival. The Strasbourg Court told them a few months ago that freedom of expression includes information and ideas that are favourable, harmless or indifferent, but also those that hurt, offend or inopportune. I repeat: freedom of expression includes information and ideas that hurt, offend or inopportunize. And nothing happens, because that is what Strasbourg calls pluralism, tolerance and the spirit of openness. In addition, he concluded that without it there would be no democratic society. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are committed to a democracy in which the prestige of the institutions and their symbols is built on dialogue, agreement and peaceful coexistence, but not only on that. Nothing prestiges and prides a country and its symbols more than the fact that it pays more taxes who has the most, that its workers have decent wages, that its pensioners have up-to-date pensions and that its young people do not have to seek life outside our borders. Nothing prestiges and prides our country and its symbols more than the fact that its scientists and researchers do not have to flee to other countries, that dependent people receive the care they need, that health is universal, free and of quality and that there is a system worthy of scholarships that guarantees equal opportunities. Socialists recognize us in this Spain and in its symbols. This is our homeland, the constitutional homeland, the homeland of rights, the homeland of dignity, the homeland of decency. But unfortunately the People's Party has another understanding of the homeland and of the defense of those symbols. Finally, I cannot help remembering an episode that many of you will certainly remember. On October 2, 2002, a defense minister, Federico Trillo, set out in the Plaza de Colón de Madrid the largest flag ever known: 294 square meters, a 50 metre high mast, 19 tons of weight. Interestingly, also in October 2002 the papers of Bárcenas collect a delivery of 27 760 euros to Federico; a payment to Federico Trillo to compensate for the reduction of his salary, that of president of Congress, to a few small revenues of minister - money from illegal commissions, money from corruption -. This is the double morality of the People's Party when it is wrapped up and embedded in the largest of the flags. [[Applauds]] This is the double morality of the People's Party when defending symbols. Nothing more and thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u38	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the sufficient financing of the Concerted Plan of Basic Services of Social Services via General Budgets of the State for an adequate exercise of the right. Mrs Marcelo Santos has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u39	Thank you, President. Today we are bringing to debate a key issue for our parliamentary group, such as the financing of the public social services system, which is conceptualized as the fourth pillar of the welfare state alongside education, health and social protection. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u40	Silence, please; I beg you silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u41	Thank you, President. This system is the youngest, the least developed, the most unknown in both its structure and its functionality and, in our view, the social services should be the instruments that the State is endowed with to materialize its social rights by being destined to contribute to social welfare through the prevention, elimination or treatment of the causes that prevent or hinder the full development of people. We have come from years in which we have had to see how the scissors of the cuts of the People's Party were sharpened on those black Fridays of decrees and fed on the system of social services, and at the same time it was observed how workers and professionals of social intervention were overwhelmed by the increase in demands in a situation of social emergency. In addition, there was already a re-familiarization in the satisfaction of needs, even in the most caring needs: grandmothers paying mortgages for children, retirees filling the refrigerators of grandchildren, finalization of aid without overcoming the situation of inequality, and women once again sustaining care, being the ones most plagued by the cuts of the People's Party. This reality made social services increasingly of a welfare nature, moving them away from the aims of universality, prevention and integration, and it became impossible at that time to develop social work of a community nature and of community intervention as precise and still is. Moreover, this welfare character of social services has not only demonstrated inefficiency in identifying and detecting poverty needs, but has also blamed and stigmatized all beneficiaries by increasing controllers and conditions of access to resources and programmes. And while this reality of the public network was imposed, at the same time, the path of outsourcing and privatization has been travelled. We are now facing a mixed current system, where most of the private sector has been 'occupied' - in quotes - with the most profitable sectors, where large companies manage our rights by looking at them as mere commodities to profit from, we just need to see how the Dependency Act is dealt with and how it is managed. However, the public sector, on the other hand, has been left to the socially excluded sectors and, whether we want to assume it or not, the reality is that the public network of social services for many years, thanks to the People's Party, has been dismantled; taking advantage of the situation of the evil so-called crisis or, rather, we are faced with a delicate situation which is nothing other than the questioning of the social services system as a system in itself. It is now necessary to give wings to a great challenge that consists in charting a horizon in order to find current answers to the social, cultural, economic and labor reality in which we find ourselves, because we run the risk of continuing to articulate the welfare state in commercial terms, and that in itself is already the total loss of the public and of the person as subject of law. Let us therefore strengthen the Concerted Plan of Basic Benefits, which is the fundamental state instrument for the development of social services. Its objective is to maintain and develop the public network of social services closest to the citizen, managed by local administrations and corporations. It has been more than thirty years since the creation of this plan. It was an advance and recognition of the right and concept of care from social services, an achievement addressed and launched by a socialist government that has made it possible for this network to be established in more than 5610 municipalities, which more than 5 million people, in one way or another, receive a benefit or service from this network, even reaching 7 million people in times of crisis, and that more than 29,000 professionals work in this public social service network. And how is this network financed? In the 1990s, when this plan was created, this public network of social services was financed through State General Budgets by up to 90%. However, this is the scheme we are facing right now: the state would provide a low 2.9, not even 3%; the local governments, 63 %, and the autonomous communities, 34 %. [[shows a graph]] This financial allocation is inconceivable. There is therefore an urgent need for a substantial increase in the share to be managed or contributed by the central Government in this area so that municipalities and local corporations will no longer be suffocated. For this reason, we also bring here today the immediate and absolute repeal of Law 27/2013, on rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, law that cut the competence of the municipalities in the field of social services. From the PP we know that it has carried out incalculable pain practices: it has cut more than 75% in social services; it has privatized; it has dismantled the public social services system when it was more socially demanded and more necessary; and they have left alone local administrations and corporations, which are the ones who are being pressured by citizens who are in need, taking on the costs of resources and programmes. Thirty years have passed since the creation of this plan and design of the social services system and, once the People's Party of the Government has been removed, the model needs to be redesigned. There is a need for a paradigm shift, not just to increase funding, which is also needed, but to go further. A public system of social services must be made possible in line with the social, labour, economic, cultural and intercultural realities that we live in and we must banish the philosophy that poverty is eradicated from social services. Poverty is eradicated by structural changes in economic, fiscal and labour models. Let us be brave and bet on a defense of social services and not on a system of charity and charity, which is what the People's Party had. We are addressing the reform of the Constitution, where social rights and access to social services must be guaranteed as a fundamental right. Let us bet on a system of universal and proximity social services. We have already raised all this in the Committee on Social Services and Welfare and we always had the opposition of the People's Party and often, of course, the abstention of citizens. When we were in the opposition and couldn't, we wanted; now that they can, prove they want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u42	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Marcello Santos, on this issue, which we believe to be relevant, sufficient funding for the Concerted Plan for Basic Social Services Services through General State Budgets for an adequate exercise of the right, you say it is a key issue. In that case, why do you bring us this non-law proposal and when you agree a 'budget' in quotes with the Socialist Party you do not include it as a priority and you think of other things, such as raising your contributions to the self-employed or raising your diesel? [[Applauds]] We have tabled an amendment on a number of issues. Firstly, on a structural issue. If more basic benefits are to be provided and these basic benefits are to be managed by the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities, it is logical that they have the recognized funding and that they are not every year begging or seeking funding from the General Budgets of the State. What should therefore be done is to substantially modify the financing system. We already know that its members of the Socialist Party do not want to change autonomous financing, even if they understand that there are clearly underfunded communities, such as Valencia or Murcia; although the same people who were at the head of the Andalusian Board said that billions were needed, among other issues for social welfare, yet now that you are in the government you do not want to complicate their lives, and they say that they are financed by budgets and that they do not change autonomous financing. We clearly do not want you to advocate a reform of autonomous financing. Another thing that really misses us is that all they think about is repealing any control rules to spend more without control. What you say is that the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration must be repealed, without replacing it with anything else. Next week we are going to talk about this more seriously, because we have amendments in full on a proposal for a law from you and another from the Socialist Party that want to burden budgetary stability. Budgetary stability is essential to be able to cope with health, education and social welfare every year. Another issue that we consider relevant. From Citizens we are in favour of increasing the funds of this plan. So much so that we have increased this game in 2017 and 2018 by 79 million euros. You take the 2016 data not to recognize that thanks to us in the next two years, 2017 and 2018, we have more money. [[The lady]] In particular, under heading 2616,231.F.453 there are 194 million euros, of which 100 million euros, at the request of citizens, were for the protection of the family and for the care of child poverty and the basic benefits of social services. This is the current budget, which will also be extended because of its inability and the inability of the Socialist Party to bring accounts here. What we have done is better, but the useful policy is achieved by approving budgets, and not going to jail to visit alleged criminals to see if they support these budgets. [[Applauds]] That is why we are essentially defending these issues. We are also interested in saying that the budgetary rules establishing a minimum of control must not be repealed. What needs to be established is a common framework for the exercise of the powers conferred on the guardianship bodies of local corporations, i.e. the autonomous communities, in terms of budgetary stability and financial sustainability, because they need to be serious. As I was telling you in the beginning what are not accounts are tales, and what is not reasonable is that you, having the opportunity to increase this funding in some accounts, have decided to bring forward non-law propositions that above, in our opinion, are clearly wrong as to their object. We need the autonomous communities and local entities to have more financial capacity, and that is achieved with a funding model and not with annual budget funding. In any case, we need an account and not a story, which is what they come to present every time one of their spokespersons goes up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u45	Thank you. To the extent that Euskal Herria Bildu already proposed last year to urge the Government to urgently take the necessary measures to repeal the Rationalization Act, we will support this proposal. We ask this to understand that this law constitutes an attack on local entities, their competences and functioning, because it establishes the principle of sustainability above subsidiarity, cutting down on competences, intervening on municipalities, betting on privatization, worsening working conditions and destroying employment, ultimately conditioning the provision of public services. The municipalities of Euskal Herria do not give up defending their autonomy. This is defined by the law that was passed in the Basque Parliament in 2016, because it is understood that the municipalities must have competences, which must be accompanied by sufficient funding in order to be able to undertake public policies aimed at addressing local social needs. On many occasions it is also the municipalities that, with complementary actions, cover social deficiencies; important actions that the law rejects with the suppression of the so-called non-own competences. Ultimately, it seeks to reduce municipal autonomy to a minimum. In addition, the Law on Rationalization ignores the uniqueness of the administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa, since the clause aimed at safeguarding it does not meet the local expectations of the institutions of Euskal Herria. In general terms, this law runs counter to the European trend, which is betting on strengthening local autonomy inspired by the principles and philosophy of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and that is precisely why the Local Entities Act that we passed in the Basque Parliament bet on what we believe is necessary, the empowerment of local entities, because they have broad powers, and because they can also be put into practice through sound means of financing. As I said, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u46	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u47	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Social services are unfortunately the policies that have suffered the most from the cuts of the People's Party, and today we are still effectively the autonomies and municipalities that are enduring the devastating years of the People's Party's government, and assuming the cost of social care. In 2015, in the face of the cuts of the People's Party, the governments of change were lucky to win and we started making social policies. In the Valencià Country without going further from the Conselleria de Politiques Inclusive we assume social services in 2015 in a totally precarious situation, and we have done things as radical and as crazy as assuming more than 80% of the cost in dependency; how to assume the cost of care to the dependent displaced; how to eliminate copayos; how to make a Valencian income of inclusion; how - now we are doing it - to shield social care through the Law of Inclusive Social Services. But, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we did this in spite of the People's Party, which suffocated the municipalities and the autonomies, but this has nothing to do with autonomous financing. Because the Concerted Plan of Social Services is a state competence and not an autonomous one, and we find it very rare that you, who so much want to refocus policies, do not make it clear that this is precisely a state policy that has to be effectively financed through State General Budgets. Fantastic, more autonomous funding; great, it will give us to make other social policies and we will make them delighted, but that does not mean that the agreed plan is sufficiently funded by increasing autonomous funding. I tell you this because precisely one of the first methods of suffocation of the People's Party was, in 2012, to halve the money earmarked for the Concerted Plan of Social Services, and in 2013 another tijeretazo in half; therefore of 86 million euros that there was in 2011 it was increased to 28 million euros in 2013. Then came the second suffocation mechanism, the Local Regime Rationalization Act, which was a real rope, both for social services and for municipalities. So yes, it is time for us to do justice and recover social policies with funding also in the State General Budgets. It is time for us to put people back at the centre of politics also in this House, and not just in the autonomous chambers. It is time for us to regain local autonomy, for us to recover social services, and for us to have the courage from here that the governments of change have had and to represent them as they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already put my group's vote in favour of this initiative, basically for one reason, and it is that the two points proposed by this non-legislative proposal have been defending them in my group for a long time. The first has to do with the repeal of Law 27/2013, known as LRSAL, because it was an exercise in refocusing competencies and usurping competencies to unprecedented local administrations, which we have been denouncing so far, not letting go of this opportunity to support this initiative. Secondly, because today that it is precisely fifteen years of one of the last great lies or promises of a central government to the Catalans, with that 'I will support the Statute of Catalonia approved by the Parliament of Catalonia' - said by the incomparable President Zapatero - we are also talking about a repeated and systematic non-compliance by different governments of the State with the autonomous communities. It was true that it had fluctuated according to who was ruling; if the People's Party was governing, non-compliance was becoming more pronounced, and if the Socialist Party was governing, it was being corrected a little in favour of the autonomous communities, but never, never, has that third-party pact that had been reached with the Government of Catalonia and with the autonomous institutions, where the State, where the central Government had to bear one third of the total cost of social policies, which it had never done, which had forced the autonomous communities, and the Government of the Government of the Government in this case, to reorganize its budget and to seek sources of funding from other budget lines in order not to leave the careless families. That is why, considering that this is a non-legislative proposal that can have little impact on government policies, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u51	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a PNL to promote the Concerted Plan for Basic Social Services Benefits, a plan that was launched in its day by the Socialist Party, and which was signed with sixteen autonomous communities, except Navarra and Euskadi, since we have competence in this area, and therefore we have economic sufficiency to address basic benefits or other improvements in the social field. It is a plan as it said to develop a basic network of social services at the local level to ensure basic social services to the entire population, regardless of their place of residence. It is also funding to three parts: municipalities, autonomous communities and state. It is true that the Law on Rationalization and Financial Stability modified the system of attribution of powers to municipalities, disappearing the possibility that the municipalities would carry out activities complementary to those of other administrations. As a result, the organization of the public social services system underwent a profound change, not so in Euskadi because of the foral reserve recognized in the said law, so that social services reside mainly in the municipalities, the entity closest to the citizenry, which also do not hesitate to expand their resources for this purpose. The exclusion of municipalities from the primary care of social services in our view is a mistake, because, as I have said, it is the institution closest to the citizenry, so we believe that this competence should reside in them, and we should not have reversed to the state a protagonist that perhaps does not belong to it, although we understand that the assumption of these competences again by the local administration carries the problem of their funding at this time. To ask for an extension of the agreed plan may be good, but we understand that it is not enough, and that this does not resolve the issue of competition or the issue of financing these powers. [[The Lord]] It doesn't stop being a patch. On the other hand, it is not understood that the Podemos Group, which has been negotiating the General Budgets of the State 2019, has omitted this issue when it believes it is vital, and has not achieved a position of the Government in this regard. On the other hand, we are also told about the repeal of Law 27/2013, on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration. A law with which we were very critical, yes - but as I said in our case we safeguard the external competences - but that as it is raised in this GNP does not answer or solve the problem of financing these policies. It could solve the competition issue, but if sufficient funding is not available to deal with the same for nothing or little, it will always be subject to this type of state plans in the Budget Act, and may not be sufficient for all municipalities. For this reason, and before addressing legislative deletions or requesting an increase in the amounts of this plan through GNP, we would have to address this issue or other important issues that go beyond what this non-legislative proposal raises. Our group is therefore going to abstain in principle. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u53	Good afternoon. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea presents us with a theme of reflection: thirty years. Thirty years is nothing; twenty is even less, but thirty is nothing either. Things have happened in 30 years. Thirty years ago there was a better will in this Congress than there is today, because otherwise the state pact that was the agreed plan would not have occurred. There was also a certain naivety. They say the word ingenuity means free in Greek. More naivety, and it was believed that strong social services would be able to reduce poverty. A genuine State plan that provided for economic and technical cooperation for the development of a broad local network and an exchange of information. Much has been accomplished. But the financial commitment, as always when we talk about money in this country, the initial will, that of - look, because it has a certain common sense - three parts: municipalities, autonomy, state, all together in union, is not fulfilled and always who is closest to the citizen is the one who ends up assuming a reality, even beyond their competences. This is what has happened to us with the agreed plan: already in the 1990s this protection of the State began to be substantially reduced, and now - as has been said here by the proposer - it is ridiculous. It's hard for me to understand that these people who put the state or centralization in their mouths are then so petty in distributing the money. It is a certain political schizophrenia that will lead to those who believe that in a forthcoming election they will win by not doing so. Sometimes when they make contributions here they say: it is that if the budgets are not approved the right will gain, hear, a little more confidence in the Spanish people, I have it in the people of Catalonia. I believe that if there are elections, the progressives will win, because people are tired of the monotheme, they are tired of any issue being: against the independentists, the resurrected communists, the separatists. This is getting tired. People want to be able to solve their problems. [[Applauds]] And this, for the absence of the right - you are not Merkel, how far you are from Merkel -, it is up to you. A little more brio, gentlemen of the PSOE! More confidence! [[Applauds]] They may not approve budgets, but you can do a lot of things until the next election... and win them! Because we have to go out and win and negotiate and make this country not a space of gladiators to see who says it fattest, today we started with Rivera's speech, please! Did it have anything to do with the police? No, no, no, no, It had to do with the monotheme. And then others have followed the same path. Well, look, let's learn from the plan, but let's do something else. At the moment, society has changed a lot. In these thirty years there are 13 million people, Spanish citizens; yes, 13 million - more than the votes that all this bench has together - who are in principle of social exclusion, which mostly do not conform to the initial model of thirty years ago. Before, poverty was equal to social exclusion. Today there are poor, many poor who work and are socially excluded. That's what we need to worry about. Dignity, the flag, are rags if we are not able to make people live better and not see their neighbor as an enemy. We can see ourselves as adversaries; I am an independentist, I am an adversary of some of you, but never an enemy. Let's see if they understand it and we're done screwing around. [[Applauds]] The Spanish people and the Catalan people deserve respect, and from this rostrum much more respect. Therefore, according to this proposal, we will try to clean up wounds, not put alcohol, but clean up wounds so that in this country the poor are less poor and the rich are more generous, man! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u55	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As the proposer group says - and it is recalled in its initiative - it is thirty years since the launch by the socialist government of Felipe González of the Concerted Plan of Basic Benefits of Social Services, which was born in order to maintain and provide people with adequate social services to meet their needs, co-financing projects for the development of basic benefits of information and guidance, home help and support to the unit of coexistence, alternative accommodation and prevention and social integration. One thing: currently in Spain there are 5.8 million people receiving care from this social network, in which 62,000 professionals work. For us, therefore, the consolidation of a public and quality system of social services has always been and continues to be a priority; a system capable of giving effect to the right of access of citizens to a set of basic social services that guarantee social protection to all people living in Spain, and obviously the agreed plan was and is a basic instrument to achieve it. In 1988, the then Ministry of Labour and Social Security signed a plan with the Autonomous Communities to develop a basic network of social services at the local level that would guarantee benefits to all citizens, regardless of their place of residence. It was a real state pact that during its early years had a strong momentum, which allowed it to be consolidated, as well as to expand all complementary equipment, which in turn facilitated the implementation of important services that benefited many citizens in vulnerable situations. Initially there was a commitment of financing to third parties of the cost of this network between the General Administration of the State, local corporations and autonomous communities, which in the 1990s resulted in a contribution by the General Administration of the State of more than 25% of its cost. Now, after the cuts of the People's Party, it's barely a small 2.9%. We have been repeatedly denouncing during the seven years of the People's Party's government that the dismantling of public services and, specifically, social services has been carried out intentionally, as evidenced by what we are dealing with here today, as the allocation of the agreed plan increased from 87 million euros in 2011 to 47 million euros in 2012, the first budget of the People's Party. From there, it went to just over EUR 27 million in 2013, and so on again in the following budget years, to a cut of more than 66% at a time when it was estimated that the increase in demand for social emergency aid was increased by 200 %. The People's Party, to justify the unjustifiable, has always used the inheritance received, and even the decline of 8 million euros in 2011 compared to 2010, obviating that the Socialist Parliamentary Group amended the general state budgets of that year to replace 3 million euros; which you have not done in the seven budgets you have managed. And they're not talking about the cut that Zaplana made in her day of 6%. Do you remember the time of 'Spain goes well'? You'll remember that, which I'm sure you don't remember anymore, is Zaplana, and you don't want to remember Cospedal anymore. But who I do remember today is the one who really learned from the cuts to the agreed plan, who is no other than Juan Manuel Moreno Bonilla, who from his post as Secretary of State for Social Services was the real enforcer arm of these cuts, who ruled out as an aspiring leader of the Andalusian PP to the elections: I don't want to be a candidate and I'm not going to be a candidate, he said in 2013. But the People's Party, not content with this lack of funding, added the evil so-called Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act, which involved a frontal attack on the social services network, a law which it passed in 2013 alone, with its absolute majority, and which it did against everything and against all, which led to the submission of unconstitutionality appeals by Members of this Parliament, by many autonomous communities and by more than 3000 municipalities, which the Constitutional Court partially estimated. This law, made at the stroke of ideology, demonstrated what we already knew: that for the People's Party, municipalism is nothing but a mere management unit. We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and this government know that it is from the proximity of the municipalities that social problems are best solved and from where equality and social cohesion are best fought. That is why Minister Batet has expressed the need to address reforms in this regard, in order for local authorities to regain their competence and management in line with the Constitutional Court's ruling. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. We are convinced that politics and the economy must be at the service of people, primarily the most vulnerable, and we are working to recover the setback during the governments of the People's Party. For this reason and in order to reactivate the pact with the citizenry we understand the adoption of the General Budgets of the State for 2019 as fundamental, on account of responsibility, gentlemen of the PP, which you were filled with when you were governing, which would allow, among other issues, local entities to reflect in their budgets the financially sustainable investments they decide to make. For all the above and for our firm commitment to quality social services, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon once again we can play your best role: take your sweetest face to this rostrum and play the Robin Hood from social services, but I place you on the street to stage your populism to see who you cheat on, of course more Spaniards don't; you have fallen for it, every time you announce a social policy you fall for it. There are so many examples I don't know where to start. For example, social housing policy: cassoplon in Galapagar; welfare and nutrition policy in Venezuela: it is eaten three times a day - says Íñigo Errejón -; or, for example, in exchange for your support for the investiture, you did not ask by decree for an injection to alleviate poverty and social exclusion in Spain, no, you asked Spanish Radiotelevision and the control of the media. [[Applauds]] But yes, this afternoon you go up to the Podemos rostrum and the Socialist Group - which are you who look like the couple of Pimpinela, you are delighted to have met - and you boast of that increase that you are going to make, via the General Budgets of the State, for the financing of the agreed plan. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we missing? Is there going to be General State Budgets? Has President Sánchez's economic vice president reached an agreement with the independenceists? Have you taken fruit from your journey through Catalan prisons? No, ladies and gentlemen, we know it and you know it too: there will be no General State Budgets, but you have used this initiative this afternoon to have some social wink. But look, the agreed plan, as other honourable Members have said here this afternoon in the rostrum, was the result of consensus, of agreement, of which there was in 1988 in this House, of which it laid the foundations for establishing basic social services, the fourth leg of the welfare state, to homogenize access to universal social services on an equal basis throughout the territory. And yes, today they serve more than seven million Spaniards, and they extend through a network that lends the municipalities in more than 6,000 municipalities in Spain, and above all that facilitates the employees of the concerted plan, the social workers. These are the professionals to whom this afternoon the People's Parliamentary Group is going to pay tribute, because they are the first face, the first face, the first hand that they give to the citizens who need it most when they go precisely to the nearest administration that they have, at their window, to the window of a city hall. [[applause]] You have continued to make a staging this afternoon here by taking advantage to give wax to the People's Party. Cuts, privatizations, dismantling are his fetish words, they already have them included and say them on the road. But who said the plan was obsolete? A Secretary of State of the Socialist Party, yes. And who assured them of the agreed plan? The People's Party, with 100 million euros in the last General State Budgets for the Family Support Plan and the fight against child poverty, basic social benefits. And that's because until yesterday - only until yesterday - Spain grew economically and Spain created jobs, which is what happens when it rules the People's Party. That is why we have been able to lead the two most social budgets of the entire history of democracy, allocating 7 out of 10 euros to social spending in 2017 and 2018. And you know why? Because people are the center of our policies, of the policies of the People's Party. And you can't say the same, your recipes we already know: more unemployment and more poverty. And you know why? Because they are already starting to cook it: rising of the diesel tax, rising of the tax to the self-employed, rising of the technological tax, rising of the tax to the bank. The People's Parliamentary Group cannot vote this afternoon against the measures that halted the country's crisis and ensured the sustainability of social services. [[The lady]] I will remind you that a catalogue of basic social benefits was approved in 2013 with the agreement of all the autonomous communities, whatever their political sign, which also launched the Payment Plan to Providers, which the municipalities were able to take advantage of for their sustainability, and that 3000 million were allocated to the entities of the third sector, which are key to providing social services. In addition, there was a law on rationalization and sustainability of local entities, which has allowed the distribution of the competence framework to be redistributed; and that the social competences are of the autonomous communities, but nothing prevents them from being provided by the municipalities. In fact, we fully agree on this, because it is the closest administration, but that is, with the financial transfer sufficient for the municipalities to do so. [[Applauds]] So if you want to work in social services, get to work, as your lordship of Citizens has said very well, in autonomous financing, in the reform of autonomous financing, and claim that this is a finalist for social services, because the autonomous communities make like a great song of a great Spanish author: flying I go, flying I come and along the way I am entertaining myself, and what happens in Andalusia is happening, right?, that a lot of money is lost. In what? In puticlubs and other meats. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Navarro Lacoba. Mrs Marcello Santos, for the sole purpose of approving the amendment tabled or not, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u59	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u60	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CRIMINAL INJURY LAW. [[File number 162/000822]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u61	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Criminal Procedure Act. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Muñoz González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u62	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to defend the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group concerning the repeal of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. This non-law proposal, apart from having this content, first and foremost, of course, has a sense of criticism of the situation in which we are in this Parliament because since May 2017, in which a bill by a parliamentary group in this House has been taken into consideration, aimed at repealing section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, this initiative, by successive extensions, is still paralysed. It is therefore also that function of denouncing this situation that has made our group present and defend this parliamentary initiative in the rostrum today. The reform that the People's Party Government carried out with an absolute majority in 2015 resulted in an amendment to the text of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act to the point of setting a time limit for the investigation of crimes. Intending to involve that in a sort of search for the formula of saying that justice if it is not fast there is no justice, what was ultimately seeking that parliamentary initiative that unfortunately saw the light, was approved, was published and is applied - and although it was applied by the People's Party Government - which led to no more or less impunity for many causes, which are necessarily complex in their study because they are fundamentally related to crimes associated with political corruption. These crimes carry an instruction in which rogatory commissions must be made, the evidence must be sought and an investigation must be carried out which necessarily takes time and therefore the fastest way to end, the fastest way to create a situation of impunity that occurred to the People's Party was precisely, as I say, to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act so that, by putting a deadline to the investigation, it would reach nothing more or less than the non-accusability and, therefore, the exemption from liability of political leaders who had committed corruption-related crimes. This was criticized in the study phase by the various consultative bodies. The Council of State strongly criticized this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. It was also much more strongly criticized, even by the Prosecutor's Council, when it was also saying that the capacity to request an extension within the time limits provided for in this article could not be placed in the hands of the prosecutor's office because, being one of the prosecution parties, it did not make any sense to be the one left with the only capacity to extend the investigation. It was also criticized by all associations regardless of their ideological bias, judicial associations and prosecutors'associations, which, when it came to enter into force, also referred to this initiative, calling for this situation of impunity not to be carried out. All this was rejected by the governments of the People's Party. And necessarily when he goes up here to the rostrum the representative of the People's Party will tell us again that in 2011, at the end of the parliamentary term in which the Socialist Party ruled, a preliminary draft of a new procedural code in criminal matters was launched, but he will be forgotten to say, and that is why I say it, that it was a different model from what we have, that it was a model in which the instruction was given to the prosecutor's office and the guarantee of the time limits of the investigation remained in the hands of a neutral figure in the investigation as was determined as the judge of guarantees. Therefore, nothing to do with the barbarity that was carried out by the People's Party when it amended in 2015 this parliamentary decision which today causes us to ask once again that Congress urge the appropriate party, which in this case is a body of this House, the Bureau of the House, to stop extending the deadlines for amendments. Fifty-three amendment deadlines have been the ones that have been weighing since May 2017 that are preventing further parliamentary processing of something that Congress has taken into consideration in the debate under consideration. And it was not only an initiative, for example, in this case of the Podemos Group, but in other initiatives that were also taken into consideration there were some of the groups that make up the majority in the Bureau and that block this type of initiative as evidenced by the need to reform Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of this House in an initiative that had to be presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on amending the Rules of Procedure, which was discussed and taken into consideration last week. We had to say and put on the table that this type of action, to violate the regulation in this way and this type of use in abuse of law of a formula that is using the Bureau of the House without legal coverage because what the regulation says is not what is applied, but a parliamentary use and therefore it makes no sense that we continue with this situation and we have to go to the reason for this initiative. This initiative is only going to try to stop them from prescribing investigations that have a fundamental content, which is the content that some parliamentary groups have said in this House that they defend, but that with their actions, such as, for example, the Citizens' Group, blocking these kinds of initiatives in the Bureau, what they do is what is the opposite of what they preach they do. In this respect, we propose that this initiative be adopted today, but that the consequence of this decision taken by the plenary of the House in this political act which constitutes the adoption of a non-legislative proposal is that from next week the Bureau of Congress should stop blocking initiatives of this kind so that, taken into consideration, they are debated and that they do not have to spend months. That is why we are not surprised - although knowing the Citizens' Group relatively - that you have tabled an amendment to our non-law proposal, which is basically two amendments - because it is a mistake that you have made - because the text you are proposing is the same as ours, although there is another second text that you are proposing; it is a two by one. In any case, it does not make much sense for you not to approve this initiative, as it is in your hand, to do so together with the rest of the groups, and what is not in the hands of the rest of the groups is for you to stop in the blockade. Stop being the carcinogens of the initiatives that most of this House takes into consideration, because that is certainly subvert. This afternoon we attended a debate in which some members of the parliamentary groups of the People's Party and Citizens have come to talk about the recovery of democratic forms. One way to recover democratic forms is that, when a majority in this Congress has a political bias, this also translates into the actions that the Bureau carries out and does not block, not do politics from the Bureau, but do a purely technical job of rating the writings and pushing them forward, because that is the fundamental thing in parliamentary law until the realization of the purpose, which is the parliamentary procedure. Because what is at stake here is that every time you, the People's Party and Citizens, block this initiative you are prescribing in the Spanish courts complex, complicated instructions that relate to very important cases related to political corruption. We will therefore reject your amendment and call on all groups to support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Muñoz González. In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal is curious. The guidance function, which is covered by non-legislative proposals, is a guidance function to the Government or to urge any public entity or organization, if any, that has executive functions to deploy or develop a particular policy. The curious thing about this non-legislative proposal is that Congress urges itself to carry out a certain legislative task in the sense that the Socialist Group wants. And it is a rather eccentric question - let us call it this - which does not exactly correspond to the objective of the orientation function. With regard to form, it is clear that, when the non-law proposal calls for speeding up the processing of the proposal for a law repealing the maximum period of time taken into account, they will be urging the parliamentary groups, which are in their hands, where appropriate, to process the various legislative initiatives. So, again, there is a somewhat empty orientation function. Beyond that and with regard to the substance of the matter, we agree. And so we agree with this initiative that this is an initiative that is taken into consideration on 9 May 2017 and two months earlier, exactly on 21 February 2017, a similar, broader initiative - then I will explain why - but in any case, which envisaged the repeal of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, had been taken into consideration in this House, and had been taken into consideration at the request and initiative of my parliamentary group, Citizens. We therefore agree with the substance of the matter. We share the need to repeal this ceiling to the instruction. We considered it that way on two points. Firstly - and it can now be seen objectively - because it was not going to be a useful tool for speeding up the processing of criminal proceedings. We now know that this has been the case, because the latest statistics published by the General Council of the Judiciary itself are at your disposal and it is possible to see how the average times for the processing of criminal proceedings, precisely those affected by article 324, both prior and summary proceedings, have not only been shortened, but also that the average times for processing have been increased. It has therefore not been a useful tool. Secondly, it seemed to us that the fundamental right to a proceeding without undue delay is part of the right to effective judicial protection of article 24 and requires that judicial proceedings, especially criminal proceedings, be conducted as soon as possible. But the truth is that in the reality of our courts and tribunals, no legislative reform of criminal procedure has been addressed - as we all want and have been demanding for a long time - nor has a reform of the structure of our judicial plant been addressed and even the digitization and modernization of justice and the provision of sufficient material and human resources and means. In view of this lack of means, it is not possible to start building the house on the roof by imposing time limits on processing, which in many cases have led to some criminal proceedings bordering impunity. Of course, in the fight against corruption, in the fight against that scourge that forms the foundation of our democracy, we are not prepared to put more obstacles to our courts and tribunals and our prosecutors, who are fighting - as I say - against the scourge of corruption in the front line. [[Applauds]] That is precisely why I say to the Socialist Group's spokesman that we believe that the simple repeal of Article 324 is a pure patch; what we need are many more effective measures. That is why this measure to abolish article 324 is envisaged in the proposal for a comprehensive anti-corruption law, which I repeat was taken into consideration here on 21 February 2017 and which is currently being dealt with in this House. It provides for the repeal of article 324 at the request of citizens, but also for a battery of measures that are absolutely essential to combat corruption: to adopt a statute for the complainant of corruption to protect complainants; to create an independent authority of public integrity; to regulate the activities of lobbyists; to reform the Transparency Act; to regulate, for example, the prohibition of running into electoral lists for politicians who have been opened an oral trial and for those accused of crimes of corruption; or to incorporate the crime of illicit enrichment of authorities and officials, which is another request of prosecutors and even of the State Attorney General in their memoirs repeatedly. That plurality of measures is what we need to implement in order to combat corruption effectively, and it is all those measures that remain blocked, Mr Muñoz. They remain blocked in the arduous parliamentary procedure which, given the plurality of the composition of this House, becomes complicated and difficult for all procedures and for all proposals, Mr Muñoz; for yours, but also for ours and for the rest of the groups. [[Applauds]] Precisely you and the People's Party have been blocking the processing of this proposal for a comprehensive anti-corruption law in which I say again that we go far beyond what you envisage with this repeal of Article 324. They've been blocking this whole retangle of measures and some more that doesn't give me time to degenerate. I therefore urge you to approve the Citizens' Amendment, in which we go beyond the repeal of Article 324. Let us go to unlocking, at the heart of the measures that are necessary to tackle corruption effectively, decisively and comprehensively. Therefore, if you are willing to support the least, I am sure that you will also be willing to support the most, and I am therefore sure that you will be willing to support the amendment that Citizens have tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. Mr Bataller i Ruiz, first of all, has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Spanish right has to choose between realism and order and command, you know, always choose ordiancism, always choose that confusion of means and purposes, that arbitrariness, and you think that simply with some provisions that set deadlines, as in this case, problems of as much complexity as those affecting prosecution, the investigation of criminal proceedings can be solved. We, in Compromís, will always support the repeal of that section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and now we will also do so, because, although we do have normative texts that are still awaiting due process, it is no more than in a non-law proposal of these characteristics that the propaganda effect of the fact that there is a majority of the House that repeats something that should have been resolved long ago is also coming about. This Article 324 is a text that seems to us to come from a remote past, beyond the year 2015, brought by the nothing crying former minister, Mr Gallardón, who left us that plus other niceties such as court fees and other issues that no one wants to remember now, but that we have not just solved once and for all. We understand that this is a good time and we will support this non-law proposal. Moreover, this is something that both the citizenry and all legal operators are asking, and in that there has been a consensus of judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice to move forward in this line. Obviously, we need to work on other issues, we need to get to zero, we need to untie the courts, but let us take this first step and remember what the will of the House is in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Muñoz, I hope that you will not even think, as you have said, of accepting the amendment put to you by Citizens. Today, the Socialist Group has shown us that in this House we systematically block those initiatives that they do not like or do not want to deal with for whatever reason and, instead, they are the same that come here to claim that certain yellow ties cause them stupor, blush or even bother them, those people who have the defachability to burn the streets in order to be able to provoke because this is where they find their breeding stock, those political formations that only deal with those that they want. I would like to remind you that it was Citizens who specifically boosted the pact for justice or blew up a Commission of democratic quality in which we had to deal with what was the complainant of corruption by presenting his own initiative outside the rest of the political forces when what the citizens expected was that there would be a consensus in order to be able to resolve this very important issue. We will support this non-legislative proposal. Let us hope that the repeal of Article 324 can be dealt with. It is an article that, as has been said, hinders effective judicial protection and also prohibits the investigating judge, who is currently responsible for investigating judicial cases, who can request extensions if he considers it appropriate because of the complexity of the case; as drafted, he can only request extensions by the prosecutor if he deals with a certain complexity of the case. It is therefore an article put in place to enable them to overcome time limits for the investigation of complex cases and to give protection to situations that are not desirable and that should be under all the concepts judged and that, curiously, they have seen the brake in this House at the request of the People's Party and citizens. We agree with the Socialist Group. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal and hope to be able to develop a proposal repealing Article 324 and favouring effective judicial protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro i Buldo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u70	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is debating the controversial article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which was amended by Act 41/2015 to limit the length of the investigation phase of criminal proceedings. This change occurred only with the support of the absolute majority of the People's Party and with the majority opposition of the justice professionals, who maintained and maintain that deadlines cannot be shortened without increasing the means, both human and material. This lack of means, already since the adoption of the reform, is implying false provisional dismissals, abundant declarations of complex causes, unfounded accusations, since the archive is not available except for general reasons of the Law of Prosecution, nor to conduct out-of-date proceedings, as they would be invalid. To this situation, that of reforming without taking into account the real situation of justice, is added the fact that the prosecutor's office is left with the extension of investigative proceedings, which is an incongruity and a disempowerment of the courts or investigating judges. It is an incongruity since, according to the Law of Prosecution, the investigation is directed by the investigating judge and, moreover, because it is a disabling of the latter in favor of the prosecution, to which it is also perceived, historically, under the control of the Government. What has so far led this Basque Parliamentary Group, on the occasions when we discussed this issue, to support the reforms of Article 324 and which we will now do again on the occasion of the initiative we are discussing. However, we have also pointed out on those same occasions that the duration of the investigation cannot be unlimited. The instruction must have a limited duration. A bench sentence cannot last for years, without limitation, unless we speak of an inquisitorial or police state, which we consider unacceptable in our state of cultural evolution. We cannot ignore the damage to the investigated or accused of a sine die bench sentence. That is why the State must have limited time to investigate citizens, and that is why the general causes against citizenship are not included in our democratic culture. Ultimately, an investigation without time would violate the principle of legal certainty, the fundamental right to a trial without undue delay and the procedural and fundamental rights guarantees of the parties. But in the same way that an investigation cannot have unlimited duration, the fundamental right to a trial without undue delay, as stated in article 24.2 of the Constitution, cannot be based on deadlines that cannot be complied with and that are derogated from one time after another, but must be based, as we said, and there is consensus on this, on more human and material means and better judicial organization. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we will support the initiative discussed, in line with the same support given to similar initiatives previously dealt with in this House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u72	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Within six months of the entry into force of the new article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the associations of judges and magistrates, associations of prosecutors and lawyers' unions of the Administration of Justice have already highlighted the inoperability of this reform, which sought to speed up the administration of justice and which, however, has achieved the opposite, legal uncertainty and not guarantee the right to effective judicial protection. This shortening of investigation times and criminal proceedings has not served the function to which it was intended; we are equal or worse. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this derogation, but bearing in mind that this is a non-legislative proposal, which, insofar as there are people who listen to us and do not understand it, serves nothing, since its binding character is null and void, only urges the Government. If we really want to repeal, let us stop blocking the proposals for legislation, bring them to the plenary, vote and serve to repeal it effectively. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u74	Mila esker, andrea president. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Firstly, we thank the Socialist Group for its support for our proposal for a law repealing Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, since it has been this group that has promoted this repeal or elimination of the reform which, as has been said here, has been imposed by an absolute majority of the People's Party and has brought a number of technical and procedural drawbacks that are difficult to accept in the current legislation. We all agree that we have an absolutely old-fashioned criminal prosecution law, with a series of procedures that marry little one another. We are talking about abbreviated procedures, summary and urgent proceedings, the Jury Court, each and every one of them with its specificities. From the ideological point of view, because in criminal procedural law there is also ideology, speeding up, which is what is intended, always has to do with another side of the balance, which is the procedural guarantees, the guarantees that are given to the person prosecuted in order to subject him to an inquisitive process by the State that can end up in a criminal sanction. Here's a double measuring rod. It is clear that reforms have been made in popular illegalities, especially in 2013, also with an absolute majority of the People's Party, in which we have talked about urgent steps and privileged conformity. That is, that people who commit most of the illegalities in this country - let's talk little - are subjected to a rapid process where guarantees are diminished and where they are often forced to accept an implicit coercion - any lawyer on duty in a court of law knows it - in which either there is a conformity or the sentence can be increased, that is, by giving up the possibility of defending themselves many times. However, in other types of illegalities - let us remember that the debate on article 324 took place in a context in which we were talking about large cases of corruption - weapons, in this case the prosecutor's office and the courts, are taken away in one way or another to prosecute such crimes. We can talk a lot about the substance of the matter, and there is the attenuating normally simple or very qualified of undue delays to correct excesses in instruction, as well as the exercise of the right of grace and pardon; we can talk a lot about the substance, and here I would discuss with Mr Legarda a lot that we find very interesting. But in substance and in form we are debating here the need to repeal a proposal that has not solved anything and rather has put an undeserved stress on the penal system, with a series of consequences that derive from the fact that it is the prosecutor's office that has to determine what are the simple and complex causes to the detriment of other accusations, and it is not well known what are the consequences of not doing the test at that time, it is not well known what are the consequences of bringing a subject to trial without sufficient evidence. Therefore, without empowering the courts or tribunals, this can result, as has been said and reiterated here, in widespread impunity for many of the issues relating to instructions that are complex because they affect more technological illegalities and therefore people who know more and better how to commit crime or are better advised. Clearly, we have to support him. And in this support for me, I am surprised by some of the speeches we have heard here, particularly that of Citizens, who say that, in fact, corruption must be pursued and this matter must be thrown forward. Now, as the best is the enemy of the good, there is always an excuse, which is that since we have another much better, more beautiful, more omnibus law and in which we have mixed everything, we are going to process it, and this, which is simple, which consists only of repealing an article, which stays in the drawer, because we will already do what we have proposed we have to do, which is obviously the solution to all our problems. I could also say: let's make a new criminal prosecution law. It is clear that it is also the solution to our problems, but you go and explain it to the courts or tribunals, which today are enduring all these kinds of conflicts. On the other hand, I would like to address the People's Party, because it is true that the former Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, and the president of your party, as you like to call him, President Married, met with all the judicial associations and publicly committed themselves to this repeal of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. I do not know what kind of speech you are going to make here today or whether or not you will honor the word publicly given by your married president, but we are eager to listen to you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos Itoiz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 the People's Parliamentary Group introduced the reform of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act in order to strengthen the procedural guarantees of the persons investigated, avoiding the so-called bench penalty for years and years. All this in order to fulfil a constitutional mandate contained in article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that all Spaniards have the right to a public trial without undue delay, and also in order to comply with articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which state that the processing of criminal proceedings must be carried out within a reasonable period of time. As a result of this reform, more than three hundred thousand outstanding cases, sleeping the dream of the righteous in the closets of the courts, have been dealt with. But I am going to expose a real case, the Astapa case, in Estepona where the former mayor, of the Socialist Party - I repeat, of the Socialist Party - is arrested along with other people for a crime of urban corruption in order to cover election campaign expenses. [[Show a document]] Well, ten years after the start of the investigation, out of the ninety-five originally accused, the judge has issued a dismissal order for thirty-nine of them, following the investigation on fifty-one of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this cannot be allowed. Who compensates for the honor of those thirty-nine people who have been suffering from the bench penalty for a decade? Citizens, moreover, who during that time may have seen their work expectations undermined. Here, the reform of article 334 was intended, as a general rule, to set a maximum period of instruction of six months for those cases that were simple, but the article itself allowed that when the cases were complex, cases occurred, the period of instruction could be extended to eighteen months. In addition, the second paragraph of Article 334 allowed a second extension of 18 months or less for the same period, if determined by the judge. We are talking about thirty-six months, about three years that makes it possible for the article to carry out a criminal investigation. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, they do not lie to this House or to the rest of the citizens by saying that maximum periods of instruction create an unacceptable risk of impunity. Tell me, in the two or three years that this article has been in force, how many causes of impunity have there been, tell me one, please. As my colleague Carlos Rojas, who was in the consideration of the proposal for a law presented by the Confederal Group of United Podemos, has already said, there is no risk that the period of investigation will lead to impunity because what is limited is the investigation rather than the investigation; there may be a police investigation phase, a phase led by the prosecutor's office, which is prior to the investigation. Please also read paragraph 8 of the article, which reads: In no case shall the mere course of the maximum time limits laid down in this article lead to the filing of proceedings. In addition, and to a greater extent, address the Diario de Sesiones, when Mr. Mazas, the State Attorney General, who rests in peace, at the parliamentary seat, said that limiting the maximum time for an investigation could involve some kind of dysfunction but never impunity. The reform of article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act was made in the belief that we were adapting our criminal procedural reform, dating from 1882, to the new legislation of our environment. I believe that the positive thing is not to repeal, but to face once and for all a full reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, which the People's Party Government had so planned. [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, not without making it clear that the reform carried out by my parliamentary group with regard to the maximum periods of education has been aimed at strengthening the procedural guarantees of the defendants, as reflected in Article 24 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Moreover, at no time has this limitation meant any kind of impunity; moreover, I believe that more than abrogating what we have to do is to work on a new code of criminal prosecution proper to the twenty-first century and not abrogating an article of the 999 that make up our legal text. If it is to modify or improve, there will always have us the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u77	Thank you very much, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener. Mr Muñoz González, although I thought I understood from your speech that you did not accept the amendment of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to confirm whether or not you did.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u78	Yes, Madam President. We do not accept it and will request the vote on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u80	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the implementation of energy measures adopted in the Congress of Deputies. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of it, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u81	Good afternoon, Madam President. With your permission. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The motion we are defending here today refers to a fact as logical as it is to defend the legitimate fulfillment of everything that has been worked out and approved in these Courts, and even more so in an area of such importance as energy. Therefore, it is a demand for coherence and recognition, and a little too the demand for the work of a second-rate deputy - you already know who I am talking about: of myself, without going any further - that it strives daily to manufacture, defend, trade and negotiate PNL that then seem to die in small breakwaters of history and that do not pass from there. In this spirit, I would also like to appeal, specifically in the field of energy transition, a long way and which, we must not forget, has been plagued with stones that made it difficult to travel; many of them are still there. The road to energy transition is long and we must not overlook it. The consequences of slow progress on this path are clear: an obsolete, expensive, polluting model that ends up having a negative impact on businesses, especially self-employed and SMEs, and on consumers. In fact, yesterday we read in the press once again another news about the rise in the price of light and how it continues to tarnish the activity of the self-employed. For this reason, various parliamentary initiatives have been presented, debated and approved at the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, with the aim of achieving a more democratic, sustainable and environment-friendly energy market. Today we have asked that we be summoned to these five NLPs for which I was speaking last week to the Minister of Ecological Transition from this very rostrum. The change of government has led to a possible break-in of the road, as it seems that it intends to take steps in this direction: a real decree that will soon be discussed by the House and the preliminary draft of a law on climate change and energy transition that were beginning to circulate today seem to indicate this. But as long as these global changes do not materialise in the necessary energy transition, we see a need to implement many of these measures which should not be left in a declaration of intent and thus promote the competitiveness of those sectors that make intensive use of energy, in particular agriculture and industry. Thus, we urge that in the maximum period of a quarter the ministry or the House or groups that may add majorities, promote the relevant legislative actions to comply with the following non-legislative proposals agreed - I repeat - by these Courts. One. No bill on the creation of the seasonal power contract. With it we want to make the changes in an archaic regulation that does not contemplate something as basic as the temporary production and consumption needs of many companies. All this is very clear with one example. What does an agricultural cooperative need to do for two or three months to maintain a refrigerated chamber to preserve its harvest: it must increase its contracted power capacity and, therefore, the rate applied to it. But the problem is that it will not only pay this cost increase during that period in which it is necessary to increase power, but will have to assume it for the rest of the year; this automatically translates into an unfair, often disproportionate, cost. Therefore, the creation of a seasonal power contract, being able to change only twice a year the term of power of the contract, will mean an improvement in the competitiveness and therefore the survival of many SMEs, especially those who base their work on seasonal activities, such as farmers. Two. A non-legislative proposal concerning the updating of nuclear emergency plans in the province of Tarragona - and in all provinces where nuclear power plants exist - and the provision of means for effective implementation. No more or less, the last simulation in Tarragona was that of 1987; do accounts, about thirty years. And for example, from 1985 until today technologies such as mobile telephony have appeared and in many populations in the regions of Terres de l'Ebre there are severe coverage difficulties. Three. No bill on the implementation of closed energy networks. This is a very important initiative for the Tarragona demarcation industry, where there is the most important petrochemical polygon in southern Europe, an industry that generates 30% of the territory's GDP - one out of every three jobs in the municipalities where it is installed comes from this industry; hence its impact - but also for many territories that have the presence of industrial polygons. The implementation of closed energy networks allows the different companies of the same integrated polygon to have a single connection to the electricity network. Will you anticipate these consequences? Will they reduce costs, provide energy efficiency and open up to the opportunity to adopt new investments that translate into more jobs? I only have three quarters of a minute left to tell you about the non-law proposal on smart meters. We understand that it is a key element in the democratization and emancipation of the consumer to possess the data that is generated. The non-legislative proposal on photovoltaic self-consumption in the agricultural sector, linked to the first one we have proposed, seeks to promote photovoltaic self-consumption for the agricultural sector. The agricultural sector is the only one where photovoltaic self-consumption has gained some prominence. Specifically, according to agents in the sector, 25% of the photovoltaic self-consumption facilities in Spain are concentrated in these sectors through this initiative and the implementation of a regulatory framework favourable to photovoltaic self-consumption without any charge, developing the possibility that the installation of the self-consumption can be managed by third parties or that the energy surpluses injected into the network, among others, are valued. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u83	President, members of the Bureau, colleagues, although it seems that it is a debate on energy, what we are discussing here is something much more general, and it is the exemplification of the lack of usefulness of the work that each of us does in the various committees in this Congress. Every initiative that is debated in the Commission we put our effort to; as Mr Capdevila said, we try to make a deal, we try to reach agreements, we try to get the initiatives approved and then they remain in the nothingness, in the absolute nothingness. We would like to know whether the Government has been able to use any, and also whether the former People's Party government has urged or taken into consideration some of the GNPs that have been discussed here. Because, beyond presenting and enlarging the list of parliamentary work that we all do, I would like to know whether what is being recorded and debated here in the committees serves only one holder, whether the Government takes them into consideration or whether we are actually working for work, because of this theory that the longer we are, the more efficient we are, and in the end, everyone's effort is not transformed into real policies. [[Applauds]] We are discussing a focus; a focus on the current Government, the previous Government and the previous Governments, but among the initiatives that are called for here to be taken into consideration that have already been adopted and debated - some for more than a year - we are talking about nuclear emergency plans. Nuclear safety is a priority issue for our party and for all the citizens of our country. Mr. Capdevila was talking about the latest nuclear safety drill that was made; right at that time I was born, so imagine how our plans are being updated. Nor does the politicization of the regulator help the credibility of the nuclear sector. The disbelief and repeated lack of trust in it mean that when we are given data, even if we really want to trust, the margin of doubt is always present. We have also amended the proposed law 161/001958, which was adopted on 21 June 2007, which deals with the reform of the Nuclear Security Council. Why? Because the runrun is already out there, after what has happened with the General Council of the Judiciary, that an agreement has also been reached to indicate who will be the new occupants of the seats of the Nuclear Security Council. We hope that you will, in this case, Mr Capdevila, accept that this initiative, which was approved by the Commission to ensure the independence of the regulator, will be included. [[Applauds]] We're talking about closed networks. The value of the industrial sector in our economy must be highlighted: stable jobs, large business volumes, which give stability to our citizens. Industry must play a growing role in the Spanish economy. That is why it is necessary to promote and enhance this innovative role. The high cost of electricity - which we have already discussed and on which we have had bad headlines in the last few weeks - has led to the situation that there are many industries that arise and question whether they continue to operate or, which is the same, if they fire all their workers and increase the unemployment lists. We therefore believe that all measures that are implemented and put on the table that guarantee or encourage the reduction of these prices at a competitive level for the industry will be good news and will also have a direct impact on the competitiveness of the industry because, according to Eurostat data, Spain is the third country with the energy price rate for the largest industrial sector in Europe. We believe that these closed networks within polygons and with prior agreement can contribute to the reduction of these prices. Smart accountants too. We are talking about an initiative on agricultural self-consumption and we reiterate our commitment that the consumer has a leading role in the generation. That is why we have promoted several times the audit of the costs of the bill of light and of our entire system, in order to know what is being paid and how is being paid, and in the agricultural sector or in the industrial sector distributed generation and self-generation are also key to the energy future, but, of course, we all have to ask what energy future we want to go to. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that although we have talked about energy, or I have talked about energy in much of my speech, here we are paying attention to the present Government and the previous governments. I would like to know the percentage of GNP that has been taken into account by the various governments, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, in recent years, because today's substantive debate, unfortunately, is not energy, but the neglect of the various governments that ignore what is being done in the committees of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Capdevila has presented to us a text that has the courage to constitute a brush motion that serves to gather all the work that we have been doing since plenary and in the committees in these two long years that we have been in the legislature and, in fact, I agree with Mrs Rodríguez that what would be interesting in the light of this presentation would be to abound a little more and to know what the previous Government of the People's Party has taken into consideration of our work and what the current Government also intends to take into consideration. In any case, we have been witnessing a situation in which, in matters as important as this and of such concern to the citizenry, in the end the voice of the Legislature, of whom we represent national sovereignty, it seems that either has been little heard or has been heard in a rather dispersed and ineffective way. This, of course, would be a question that should be renewed, and that is why the value, meaning and interest of the motion put to us by the Republican Left. We, in Compromís, support the Royal Decree that the Government recently, already validated, brought on urgent measures for the energy transition, because we agree that they are important; they justify the urgency and necessity of the Royal Decree issues such as the electric social bond, the thermal bond, the elimination of the sun tax or the prohibition of the cut of supply to the consumer at risk of exclusion. These and many other issues that are touched upon in this royal decree, now dealt with as a bill, obviously count with our support, but we would be concerned that a superficial treatment of the matter, which would only seek the impact of a holder and exhaust itself in that simple firecracker, and would forget much, much more important things, for example, the need to end the poor regulation of the electrical mix. It is an inadequate mix that responds to a market without competition, which is the real cause of energy poverty. We are also concerned that fiscal and procurement measures will cease to be short-term and will enter into truly structural aspects. We also want to warn one last issue that is very important to Compromís. We miss that no longer a wink, but actually a link between the demands of consumers and users and the demand aggregators, so that they can actively participate in the electricity market through self-consumption and recharge infrastructures. Sincerely, Compromís would hate for the self-consumption and recharge of electric vehicles - for example - to be captured by a renewed oligopoly of electric and oil vehicles. This is something we already know and it is hard for us to get out of the crossroads where we always lose citizenship. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - we cannot forget that the energy transition and the fight against climate change have only one direction, which is to open the electricity market to a participation in which criteria that abound in energy democratisation and in rewarding ecological criteria against mere economic gain are incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Of course, we will vote in favour of your initiative. The formal debate that you have put before us once again highlights the lack of credibility that today's non-legislative proposals enjoy in this House. We must therefore remember that there is some initiative to reform the Rules of Procedure which seeks to remedy this reality and it is good to recall that in the Catalonian Parliament there is an obligation of the Government that, once a non-law proposal has been adopted, the Government is obliged to inform the House of its mandate to carry out what it is required to do. I hope that in this Congress we also have a mechanism similar to that of Parliament, which would basically avoid a motion as strange as that which you defend, which means reaffirming ourselves in what we have already adopted. In any case, welcome be your initiative. I am also convinced, having read your debate with the Minister of Ecological Transition a week ago, that in the coming months, weeks I would say, we will have some important debates regarding the handling of the Royal Decree-Law on urgent energy measures. There you and I agree on the need to put an end to the cost overruns that are punishing the Catalan industry, which makes intensive use of energy. In this inquiry, the Minister reiterated her commitment in the parliamentary debate, which is to return the competences in this area to the National Market and Competition Commission. There is a threat of sanction from the European Commission. We hope that this will be done, because it was a commitment of the minister. The minister in her interpellation told her that she hoped to bring this legislative change to Congress soon. If that does not happen immediately, both the Republican Left and the Democratic Party - the Democratic Party sure - we will be forced to amend the royal decree in that direction. At the same time, in this battle against climate change, which is little or much what articulates parliamentary consensus in this area, for an industrial country like ours, Catalonia, we must not forget in this ecological transition, in this energy transition the aspects linked to the competitiveness of our business fabric and its ability to maintain and generate quality employment. From this point of view, the Royal Decree is a very good opportunity to introduce measures to reduce the energy costs of industrial enterprises. There, support and momentum for cogeneration will be fundamental in our amendments. I'm sure we'll be able to match Mr. Capdevila there, too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u89	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today Esquerra brings us a motion on energy. We're back to this again, but it looks like something's going to change now. While we previously had the feeling that it was going to be the legislature of the demand for energy patches, because no group agreed with electricity regulation, it seems that the new government is seeing a change. It is a change of philosophy, not a structural change, as Esquerra says in his motion, but it must also be recognized that the Government has been able to establish, as the motion says, these structural changes for a few months. Esquerra proposes in his motion a series of initiatives that were discussed in the Energy Commission itself, today of Ecological Transition. Our group agreed with some and others had some doubts, so we understand that we should deal with them through other laws to make certain adjustments. On the one hand, it obliges electrical distributors to comply with requests for tariff changes, voluntary variations in case of a seasonal power contract, and to adapt the plans for nuclear emergency, regulation of closed energy networks and self-consumption in the agricultural sector. Although energy is one of the factors influencing the competitiveness of companies and the energy model has not responded to this problem, the truth is that we reiterate once again that it is not a question of taking initiatives to address the problems that have been arising over time, but it is time to address a real energy reform and to boost an energy mix to address the increase in energy demand, price volatility and supply disruptions, and therefore try to respond efficiently to the challenges of environmental sustainability, security of supply and, as some rapporteurs have also said, cost competitiveness. Given further that there is a commitment by the Government to regulate the new climate change and energy transition law, on which we already know the elements on which it will be based to address the planning of such a transition - measures in the electricity sector additional to those of the newly adopted Royal Decree of Urgent Measures for the Energy Transition, in which we will also be able to introduce those changes that we consider relevant - we do not believe that it is time to take partial action, but rather to look at a package and take into account the overall scenario outlined in this law to address the key issues for this reform. All groups see the need for reforms in the electricity sector that take account of climate change, decarbonisation of the sector, modification of the wholesale electricity market, smart grids, energy efficiency, renewable energy, distributed generation, self-consumption, electric mobility and energy storage, but - as I said - we must tackle them all and give a regulatory exit in a new energy framework discussed and agreed. That is why we are going to abstain from this motion, not because we do not believe that these reforms are necessary, but because we understand that the changes are going to go beyond them and because we believe that this transition needs to be addressed in a global way. As in some things we have doubts, we would like to be able to make the relevant changes at the time. We do not see that they must be adapted in their literality and hence the abstention. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor for the Confederal Group of the European Parliament, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u91	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I cannot fail to acknowledge that Mr Capdevila is a practical Member with this motion calling on the Government to implement five GNPs approved within a quarter. As he said, it also raises another issue, which is the usefulness of GNP, which would have to be something more than parliamentary fencing in Congress. Indeed, as Mr Campuzano pointed out earlier, there are other parliaments, such as the Parliament of Catalonia, in which, at least, the Government has an obligation to submit a report on compliance with these GNPs. It would be a right not only for Members of Parliament but also for citizens as a whole to know what they have served and how far they have come in the mandates of the Congress of Deputies. I'm on it now. We agree with Esquerra's colleagues that the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018 has not meant a structural change; yes the part of self-consumption, which we celebrate and which we feel as our own, but not the rest of the contents of this Royal Decree. We also share that energy transition challenges require a broad vision, dialogue and negotiation and not a succession of patches through real decree-laws. We already have a long and disastrous experience of what happens when measures are taken without considering the importance of energy planning. We have already indicated in the validation of that royal decree-law that there must be global and non-partial solutions. We can put as an example the modification of tariffs, which has caused territorial damage and which, in fact, is a matter to be resolved in the course of amendments. We have voted in favour of all the GNPs contained in this motion and we have tabled amendments in due course to improve them. For the list that announces the motion to be sympathized with its exhibition part, there is a lack of proposals that advance precisely in a more democratic system in which society is a part of the energy transition. There are many measures that promote competitiveness and entrepreneurship, but we have missed measures to eradicate energy poverty, which is a serious problem for society and the energy system. Among the non-legislative proposals approved - in some cases by the late Energy Committee - are positive measures that I would like to point out, such as the easing of the demand for power changes and the creation of seasonal power contracts according to needs, a positive proposal for seasonal supplies and activities, such as the tourism or agricultural sector, or the proposal for the establishment of closed energy networks. It is precisely a few months ago that our parliamentary group tabled a proposal for a law on the same subject. In the case of the updating of the nuclear emergency plans in the province of Tarragona, with which we of course agree, we want to draw attention to the paralysis of the Nuclear Security Council in this and other matters - perhaps due to the forthcoming renewal of the Council itself - which must be dealt with urgently, since the management of the regulator, as the minister herself has said in several interventions, is key to the country's energy future. Of course, as long as nuclear power plants operate in our country - let us hope for a short time - they must have the best security conditions. The proposal to ensure neutral access to consumer data, the incorporation of counter replacement plans, real costs and the separation of distributors from traders are also important issues. Recently, our group presented - and approved - a proposal for a law for the vertical disintegration of electricity companies. Perhaps this measure is equal to or more urgent than those proposed here - as Mr Capdevila said in his question - given the need to move forward and overcome oligopoly, which makes no sense at a time of huge penetration of renewables and of change of energy model that must have greater participation of the citizenry. Finally, I would like to point out the non-legislative proposal on photovoltaic self-consumption for the agricultural sector without any kind of burden or toll on self-consumption energy. All the measures proposed would mean weakening the market power of large companies that maintain privileged situations. We will therefore vote in favour of the motion, bearing in mind that we need global solutions, structural solutions not only to solve the problem of the price of electricity, but also to protect vulnerable people and advance the ecological transition, and also to ensure that the Government pays attention not only to the Republican Left Group, but to all groups, in compliance with what is approved in this Congress of Deputies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u93	Thank you, President. I see that the motion tabled today by the Republican Left Group is having an interesting reception by all groups, because, indeed, it gives us the opportunity to highlight the consensus and agreement reached in this House. Far from what could be imagined by most Spaniards and Spaniards, there are many initiatives that we adopt every day in this house, in the plenary and in the commissions; and now I look at the people who are in the stands and those who are seeing us through some means of communication. It is true that there are many initiatives that each of us has adopted and, therefore, wanted to take advantage of to demand dialogue and to highlight the general intention of all the members of this Parliament to improve people's lives. The other virtue of this initiative is to show that before the motion of censure that has changed the course of the country there was already a large majority who wanted things to be done differently in energy policy. That majority already existed before the People's Party Government. In fact, of the initiatives that the proposer group is demanding today, three were approved by all groups except the People's Parliamentary Group, for their peculiar passion to go against all. In one of them the People's Parliamentary Group joined the right of Citizens and UPN and another of the initiatives was unanimously approved. Therefore, we do have the capacity to reach agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has not tabled any amendments to this initiative. Already the minister, when she was questioned last week, showed her willingness to incorporate in different legislative initiatives each and every one of the proposals approved by the House; all those that the ministry can address within its competence. I say this because, as you all know, the Ministry of Ecological Transition wants to end the blow that involved Mr. Nadal's decision to remove the competences relating to the structure of tolls and prices to the CNMC. The European Commission urged the Government of Spain to comply with the reasoned opinion on the transposition of the Internal Electricity Market Directive, but the previous Government failed to do so and Commissioner Cañete had kept the sanctioning file in a box for more than a year. That's what Minister Ribera found when she came to the government. However, within the responsibility that we do have and that we assume as members of the European Union and, of course, as followers of its legal acquis, the Government will respond to that request and appeal and that decision of the previous Government will be revoked; that is, the NCMC will again have the powers it had and, therefore, the creation of the seasonal power contract will be its responsibility. The Ministry of Ecological Transition is also working with the Ministry of the Interior to update nuclear emergency plans throughout Spain. The rapporteur for this initiative and many of the speakers who have spoken here today are part of the nuclear safety presentation, and every year we have asked through this presentation that these plans which have already become obsolete be updated and renewed in the coming months. The Government is also committed to that commitment. With regard to the implementation of closed energy networks, I would like to say that this is a measure covered by Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and seeks to achieve greater competitiveness through the most effective distribution networks for very specific areas, such as polygons, commercial areas, ports, airports, etc. They were being implemented in other countries for years, but in Spain the previous Government had refused to do so. However, the climate change and energy transition law, which all speakers in this House know, already includes closed energy networks to promote competitiveness. Therefore, it is a commitment in fulfillment as well. The proposer group also wants to put order with regard to smart accountants, a goal that we share and vote in favour of at the time. Today we are coming out to defend something that we have already defended and approved at the time, but we reiterate the need for consumers to have adequate knowledge of and access to information, an issue that must be resolved immediately. As the minister said last week, we must make intelligent use of smart meters, so that they are not just a tool for controlling the market and consumption patterns of all users, but serve the individual user. Finally, with regard to the request for self-consumption, it has been enshrined in the Royal Decree-Law which was already adopted in this House three weeks ago. Mr Capdevila, I must tell you that our group will not only vote in favour, but I reiterate today the assurance that all the demands set out in this motion and within the time limits requested will be met. The need to make big changes in our energy system is a cry we share, all the speakers have said it here today, but today we are lucky that President Pedro Sánchez has finally put these priorities on the front page of the political agenda. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio Carrasco. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Juncal Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Capdevila, you take advantage of Royal Decree 15/2018 to highlight these initiatives. Go ahead with the vote against the People's Parliamentary Group, but I would like to publicly acknowledge the effort you make as a Member to get all these issues forward. What happens is that, as some other spokesman has also pointed out, I think it is convenient to wait to have the whole Christmas tree - the electrical system in general - well defined and with time, as the minister herself requested on the occasion of the approval of the Royal Decree 15/2018. So, your GNP would be some ornaments that would look more or less good on that tree, but let's wait to see that whole tree, because we can find ourselves with a leafy and beautiful tree or a chamusado tree, because with the experiences of the Socialist Party on these issues, frankly, I fear the worst. So, as you said, referring to Romanes, let us wait for the regulations, let us wait for the laws and let us see what drawing the new government makes us. You referred, by the way, to a number of capacity payments made and accused them of being one of the problems of the system. I would like to clarify that in last year's liquidation the capacity payments were 393 million, not the amount you said in the explanatory statement. We must be clear that the electrical system, making a simile, is a three-legged bank, and those three-legged ones are price, security of supply and environmental sustainability. As for security of supply, I will give you an example. To this day many of you will know that application of Spanish Electric Network, which is the Smart Group. If you enter today you will see that the god Eolo and the god Ra, gods of the wind and the sun, have not been very favorable, because wind and solar production today - I have seen it at four o'clock in the afternoon, I say it in case someone connects now and there is some difference - reached 11%, with which we return to the usual unknowns. We have to handle those three legs of the bank so that none fail and that it does not cause chaos in the system. As for those figures I've handled, you're asking for a drill for your province, Tarragona. What would happen if one day like today we did a simulation and dispensed with nuclear energy and coal, which is what we seem to aim at? Of course, putting forward such a simulation would cause millions of problems, losses and, probably, even human lives, so you have to be very careful. Let's think about the system's liquidation, the price. Last year the liquidation of 2017 has enlivened 41 billion euros. We have a bloc of 14 billion, which is the cost of payment to power generators; 67 billion, which is the payment of transport and distribution, and here they fit some of their proposals: seasonal power, electricity networks, self-consumption... For this is the system, and that we have to pay; that is not the reward of the electrics, that is the net. If you need to consume nothing more than two months, it seems very good to me, but it is that the network has to reach it 365 days of the year and 24 hours of the day; you cannot walk dismantling substations, stations, etc., with which, it is a cost of the system. Let's go to other items, at indirect costs. We have 7 billion payment of renewable premiums and 2800 of the tariff deficit generated in previous years. That is, if we took the proportion of that amount off the receipt, it would fall by 30 %. Therefore, that 30% more expensive electricity is the fault - I am finishing, Madam President - of the policies that have been taken in previous years. They talk about energy poverty, and with this I end, although I would have many more things to talk about. In 2005, and did not govern Mariano Rajoy, the price was 109. Until 2018, it has increased by 117%. Do you know how much is the percentage that goes up from 2012 to 2018? Seventy-seven percent. 99.63 % is the fault of these Socialist Party Members and their energy policy. [[Applauds]] That is generating energy poverty and that is why, gentlemen of the PSOE, you have to apologize for the energy poverty that you have generated. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Juncal Rodriguez. Mr Capdevila, for the purposes of whether or not you accept the amendment tabled, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u97	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TERRITORIAL DIFFERENCES IN THE SPANISH EDUCATION SYSTEM. [[File number 173/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u99	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the territorial differences within the Spanish educational system. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u100	President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I asked the Minister of Education about territorial differences in education, which are evidence, not my opinions, and she denied them to me; she did not admit the objective data and was shielded from historical and socio-cultural differences to explain them. [[The lady]] Then I told him that the PSOE could count on Citizens if it was intended to make a quality educational reform, but that it would not count on us to make any kind of rinses. Celaá was very surprised and told me that she had not understood that of the rinses. For in these two weeks, the Government has taken out the lines of the preliminary draft amendment of the Lomce and has put all the cards on the table. When I was talking about these rinsings, which I knew but were not yet public, I was talking about the negotiation that the prison pact has made, the sanchism, with populism, on the one hand, which has taken the head of the covenant and of religion, and with the nationalists, on the other hand, who have taken the head of the defense of the Castilian as a vehicle language throughout the territory. Those are the rinses, and I keep holding that Citizens aren't gonna be there. [[Applauds]] Lords of Sanchism, you have shown this week, without any complexes, your conception of education. You, in the first place, conceive of education as a currency of change; that is why you have given it to the nationalists when you have been able to rule with them and that is why you are going to give it up now. You are interested in education as a means for other purposes. In this case, the end is to keep Mr. Sánchez in La Moncloa. But beyond this Machiavelism, the second point is that you believe that education is yours. I told you a long time ago: education is not yours. With a kind of illustrated despotism, we have been believing for decades that in educational matters they are in possession of the truth and that it is either their model or nothingness. Well look, sanchismo and educational consensus is today an oxymoron, it's like talking about paid mortgage. Consensus and sanchism in education cannot go hand in hand. [[Applauds]] And they can't go hand in hand because months ago they got up from the educational pact with a pilgrim excuse that they haven't mentioned again. But in addition last week they drew the basic lines for the remodeling of the Lomce without even having the decency to wait for the period of amendments to pass and to listen to the educational community. A lot of consensus a lot of consensus I don't think you want to have. The third point is that you are anchored in a model of planning, guardianship of parents, teachers and minors, which is absolutely contrary to freedom, and you are also increasingly doing so with a more unusual fundamentalism. His model is antithetical to ours. Where you believe in a model of mediocrity and indoctrination, which concerns the system, we believe in a model of equity, freedom and quality, which concerns people, children, parents and teachers, and not the system. [[Applauds]] The serious thing about your proposals this week is that, as it is yours, as you think it is yours, they don't mind killing education. Before they share it, rather than agree to it, than rectify it, or improve it, they prefer to kill it. They kill her because they think she's yours. Do you not realize that the model you are putting on the table is placing our children with children in Singapore, Poland or Portugal in an inferior position, who have indeed made good educational reforms? Some examples of the educational wreckage that you want to do: To eliminate early school leaving - model Celaá -, the government is able to hold its subjects depending on them. He's not going anymore. Instead of dealing with problems, they put the CIS model, the Tezanos model, manipulate statistics and thus eliminate the problem. To enhance multilingual models, you give free, wide-sleeved channels to communities to establish models of linguistic immersion, but they forbid the hiring of native teachers to strengthen English classes. Yes, sir, that's reinforcing the multilingual model! Or, for example, the subject of the defense of the teacher, of the one who fills your mouth. Instead of developing the educational status that guarantees the teaching system on an equal footing, what they propose is to leave to the free will of the autonomous communities that establish teaching hours. Gentlemen of the PSOE, the problems of the future that will bring bad education are not solved by looking to the past. Educational problems are solved by looking to the future and looking to the environment, looking very carefully at the environment that is doing things right, and they are solved by making a revolution. Do you know where that revolution starts? Do you know what the most revolutionary thing you can do in education? To simply and fully comply with the Constitution, article 27 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to education of all Spanish children and freedom of education; to comply with the Constitution and comply with the division of powers, which states that the State cannot continue to perform a wilful discharge of functions and that it has to develop some instruments to establish educational State policies. [[applause]] That is what we proposed to you in the motion we have tabled, to which we have added some points by trading. We have proposed such revolutionary things as developing an agency that guarantees equity and educational equality in all territories regardless of where they are. We have proposed such revolutionary things as reforming the autonomous financing system so that there is a level playing field for investment in education in all territories. We have raised such revolutionary things as restructuring curricula so that children give the subjects in the same courses and there is no chaos every time they have to move from an autonomous community. We have done things as revolutionary as proposing that there be standards of content, evaluation or learning that can be homologable throughout the territory. We have raised such revolutionary things as removing language barriers so that teachers can have mobility. We have proposed such revolutionary things as homologably ordering, throughout the territory, the lists of interims - in which there is brutal chaos - so that in all places the lists that the autonomous communities make have transparent and homogeneous criteria, that each community does not do so as it pleases. In short, we have proposed looking to the future rather than the past. You, gentlemen of the PSOE, are in your loop: Logse-LOE, Logse-LOE, Logse-LOE. You're on Tell Me and you're more reactionary every day. Let's see if you can get out of the day of the marmot and vote on this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ma'am Martin - I don't know where you are; well it doesn't matter; there you are and you are well accompanied -, you have given everything, you have left nothing this time. From now on, I do not know what they are going to propose any more, because in any case what they have presented is a general misconception. Why do you present a twelve-point motion which could have one of a single point which would say: We urge the Government to self-grant education competence, by removing it from the autonomous communities, with a uniform educational programme, in a single language - the Spanish language - a unique teacher for the whole Spanish nation and with a single inspection? That should be the tenor of the text that you should have submitted. [[Applauds]] I'm sure they like that writing better. [[The lady]] I have several versions, some even include phrases such as: unity of destiny in the universal or even the name of the ministry, which could be called the Formation of the National Spirit. I don't know if it's better for you, because everything else you've proposed is left. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] I'm talking, Mr. Singing. And everything else said, what's left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u103	Mr. Cantó, please don't interrupt the speaker. It is not in the use of the floor. Please let the speaker speak. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u104	He told him that everything else was left, as in Francoism; everything else was left. We can analyze and refute point by point what was presented in the motion, but in any case I see that little or nothing has to do with education or educational quality the text they have presented, but with the most caspastic propaganda, to be the champions of centralism, the gladiators who fight against the educational aberrations of Basque and Catalan nationalism. - Not in front of Spanish, because it doesn't exist, as we all know. I told you once that your school ideation mixes the same thing with the Falange spirit as the French Republican national school, a republic with Heads of State Bourbons - of course, that is not questionable, as you already know -. You who say that it is the defenders of the law, to carry out this motion what you propose is to change very basic laws, such as the statutes of autonomy, for example. They're wearing such a plaster and such a right that they're going to stick to the wall, to the PP and to Vox, all at the same time, as in the Marx brothers' cabin, because there's no more room on the right. The worst is that this drift is already serious and what they propose in this amendment can be achieved if these people rule. Therefore, it is also in your hands to allow this educational model to work and go forward or not. They're obsessed with the subject of high inspection, because look they've brought it several times, eh?, look they've brought it several times. In Euskadi we are competent in the field of education. We have tabled an amendment which clearly sets out the arguments that we use precisely in raising that famous state pact for education. We are competent in the field of education and the autonomous communities have assumed the competences in the field of education, although in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi a system of education has been built based precisely on the development of these competences granted by the Statute of Self-Government of Gernika, so that the education and training of people is materialized through these exclusive competences. You will say that it is a matter shared with the State, already, but that is a trap and it is a trap; because it is exceptionally marked when the State is competent, what happens is that the State decides when it is in the sense that it decides when something is basic. It therefore broadens the scope of its free will by leaving less room for the capacities of the autonomous communities through the elaboration of normative provisions which are considered to be of a basic nature and, in turn, if it is not the Government, it is the Constitutional Court which is responsible for the materialization of the substantive competence of the State, and also through the judicialization of such decisions. In other words, the Basque Government or Andalusian or Galician or Catalan can make their decisions, but they are judicialized and they are automatically resolved in the way we all know. I have to finish. I would have many questions to comment on, Mrs Martín, but why do you believe that the inspection of the State you are raising is going to be more equitable, more diligent and more objective than that which currently exists in the autonomous communities? Aren't you aware that you're saying those people are incapacitated for that function? Are you not thinking that the people who carry out the inspection in the Autonomous Communities also carry out that function? What happens is that they don't like what they solve, there's the problem. They confuse and pervert equality with uniformity and that's where we don't pass. I can read you the lexicon that you use in the text you have presented and all are standard criteria of order, approval of basic curricula, single test, conditions of equality, independence of the territory, barriers to access, elimination of linguistic requirements, basic regulations common to the whole territory, standardized national test, centres approved by the Ministry of Education. That is the educational model that you are proposing. Mrs Martín, what you are proposing is such a setback to the education system, that we are obviously not going to pass by. They confuse uniformity with equality; moreover, I believe that what you understand by equality is not what others, or many at least, understand. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are debating a motion on territorial differences in the Spanish educational system, but, if you will allow me, before addressing the issue, I would like to remind three people that they had the misfortune of dying in the explosion that occurred yesterday afternoon in the pyrotechnics of Maria Angustias of Guadix, my city, and therefore all my solidarity and encouragement for the families of Eduardo, Miguel and José. [[Applauds]] It is true that in Spain, with regard to the education system, there are very worrying territorial differences, especially when there is a broad consensus among scholars and researchers about the role of education as one of the fundamental elements of national cohesion. Today there is a very deep territorial educational gap that needs to be addressed through a real policy of compensation for territorial inequalities that helps to narrow the educational gap between the autonomous communities. The current Ministry of Education is very complicated to address the imbalances in the education system; it is enough to read the project they intend to impose without dialogue with the educational community to realize that they care very little about the quality of education, equity and the mission of education as an effective tool for social advancement. You care very little about values based on work and effort; you want a return to the nineties of the last century, where the most important thing was to equalize the system from below forgetting that the important thing is not equality of results, but equality of opportunity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Educational Arcadia, Huxley's happy world, is back to LOGSE. That is why, and it must also be said, the great educational laboratory of the Government, which is the Andalusian Government, leads all the negative rankings in educational matters, and not the People's Parliamentary Group, say, for example, studies like last Sunday in the ABC newspaper, where it is said that in 16 of the 17 parameters of the BBVA report, Andalusia only meets one; it only fulfils one, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the educational example that you want to put us into practice once again. To address the problem rigorously, we need to assess resources and policies aimed at improving attention to diversity, educational compensation, attention to students with special educational needs, scholarship and study support policy, measures to combat school failure or early school drop-out. Some data have to serve as an example to see how these premises are not met in all autonomous communities. For example, the gross school failure rate is 22.4% in Spain; communities such as Galicia, Castile and León or Madrid are clearly below, yet among the worst data cast are Baleares, Valencia, Castile-La Mancha, Aragon and Andalusia, all with socialist governments and many of them accompanied by Podemos. If we talk about access to the university, the last EBAU shows us how the Basque Country or La Rioja obtained a percentage of approved 97.5%; Andalusia is the last with 90.19: more than 7 points of difference. If we go to early dropout rates, the Spanish average is 18.3%; Cantabria, Madrid, Galicia Castilla y León or La Rioja are below the average, while Baleares, Andalusia or Castilla are well above the national average. Ladies and gentlemen, 23% of young Andalusians drop out of school and this not only leads to school failure, but it is a little more worrying, adding them to social failure. And with regard to the educational development index, which values performance, equity and quality, we also see how the parameters in Andalusia, Extremadura or Balearic Islands are below the national average. As with senior graduates, 30% of senior graduates in Andalusia have serious difficulties finding work, very different from what happens in Aragon, Balearic Islands or Madrid. And what about the remuneration of teachers; Andalusian primary and secondary teachers are the worst paid in Spain and there are differences with a teacher in the Basque Country or in Navarre, which exceed 6000 euros. The same applies to educational infrastructure, early education support and pupils with special educational needs. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that it is important to stop these large and serious differences and, therefore, we have tabled our amendment, where it is very important for us to comply with Article 27 of the Constitution and the obligation of all administrations to comply faithfully with it. We also understand that in order to achieve a balance in our education system we must address the problems of equity that limit the performance of students with unfavourable environments. And of course, in order to balance differences, we need, in the end, to provide it with a cohesion and quality fund for education based on the principle of equity and to guarantee a system of scholarships and study aid in which the socio-economic requirements and the amount of aid are equal for all Spanish students living where they live. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In any educational system whose claim is to be quality, we must not scorn the teacher. There is an urgent need to promote a law of general management of the teaching profession and a basic career design, including a system of educational access similar to the health MIR. All these measures which we incorporate in our amendments substantially improve the text and directly affect the balance of the worrying differences offered by the Spanish education system and, of course, the current Spanish Government has neither the desire nor the possibility of improving it. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez López. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u108	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is good, whenever we discuss education, to recall article 27 of our Constitution, which contains the right of parents to freely choose the education they want for their children. I also believe that it is appropriate to repeat that neither the State nor the autonomous communities have children to educate. That is why the administrations should respect more the freedom of choice and do well to abstract themselves from obsessions, identity indoctrinations and anti-religious secularisms. It is also appropriate in this debate to emphasize the need to reach a pact - I think that is the fundamental thing - a pact that would have at least these six objectives. First, achieving equity, improving quality and ensuring true equality of opportunity. Second, raise the professional and remunerative level of teachers. Third, ensure greater curriculum requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now talking about a baccalaureate with an outstanding or suspended subject. Why not two or three? I think we're going backwards. Fourthly, to adopt the teachings of the working reality of a world in constant and rapid transformation and, therefore, to give much more importance to English. Fifth, to agree to respect the values and beliefs of parents; I would like to take this opportunity to denounce the social engineering experiment being attempted by the Government of Navarre in my community called Eskolae. And sixth, ensure a continuous system-wide evaluation and a real and comprehensive inspection. Your proposal, Your Honor, has twelve points. There are many points; with some we agree, with others we do not. Of course, we share the need for loyalty, the need for truth and the guarantee of an inspection - it is true - that controls the excesses of those who use education to indoctrinate. That is why giving more power to those who are known to use it to subvert the regime of freedoms or to demolish the pillars of our coexistence does not cease to be an irresponsibility. Adopting your motion as a whole would mean virtually a complete amendment to the entire Navarro education system, public, concerted or private, which today surpasses with note any of the most demanding assessments. That is why, as we have just been through a transaction, we will consult you before taking a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Martin, how much I hate it. [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno points her with her finger]] How much I hate and how much bile every time you come up here to talk about education. It is very surprising that you come here and bring in a motion that speaks of reducing territorial differences and do not speak of things as important as, for example, investing in public education or sharing good practices among autonomous communities, as is the case with the decree of multilingualism, which Europe says is a good practice and which you hate. [[Mrs Martín Llaguno utters words that are not perceived]] [[The Lord]] Because there is nothing more mediocre in this world that a monolingual person comes to tell the rest that we also have to be monolingual. We want to be bilingual. [[Applauds]] I will ask you: what is the point for a Valencian woman to know the rivers of Galicia if she does not know the Valencian rivers? For it seems perfect to know that, it seems perfect to us; we want to know the Galicians and we also want to know the Valencians, and that is precisely building bridges. Respecting and dignified teachers for their functions and not wanting to control them as if they were preschool children is also building bridges, and speaking Spanish and Valencian, as is our case, is also building bridges, no matter how much it hurts them. Citizens' proposals seek to eliminate their own languages, to promote ignorance of the environment, to persecute the faculty, in short, to destroy, and that is precisely the worst education that can be given, that of destruction. Faced with this speech of hatred that always brings here Citizens our motto, with which we want people to study Valencian: I will build a thousand bridges a thousand times. Look at the difference, the difference, Mrs. Martin. The Spanish State and the Valencià Country are diverse lands, no matter how much it hurts them, and you deliberately ignore it and we will not tolerate it. While you attack, we will build bridges between languages; while you continue to attack, we will build bridges between families and teachers; while you attack, we will build bridges towards a tolerant and inclusive education, no matter how much it hurts you, because we respect our teacher, love our language and educate in tolerance. So in the face of his hatred, in the face of his contempt and in the face of his constant attack we will continue to build a thousand bridges a thousand times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u112	Thank you, President. Mrs Martín, it is said of North Korea that it is the most homogeneous country in the world where people are equal to each other, there are no differences; it is a characteristic of that country that you, fortunately, do not have to defend in the Congress of Deputies of North Korea, which would be a pity for you and for us that we would miss your weekly dose of Spanish nationalism. I would like to remind you of what I say to you every time you bring such an initiative to this House, which is: firstly, the problem of the Spanish education system is not the pupils, the co-official languages or the teachers; it is this House, which has been unable to agree in forty years to conclude a great state pact for education culminating in what should culminate in a great state pact for education, which is in a state pact for education. [[Rumors]] Focus on that, which is the great problem, the great failure of this House. It is not Catalan or Basque or Spanish; the great problem of the Spanish education system is this House and until that is accepted, until we start working to change this, the Spanish education system will continue as it is. You, Mrs Martín, were born in a plural country and you present an initiative where you talk about differences,... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u113	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u114	... where he talks about territorial differences, about language barriers, and I tell him, isn't it linguistic wealth and not language barriers that this country has? At the end of the day, he has set us a new example - and he is grateful that they are updating the argumentary - which is that of the native teacher. How is it possible that a native teacher can't be in Catalonia teaching English because he doesn't know Catalan? And I'm telling you, how is it possible that a native teacher can't be in Madrid teaching English without speaking Spanish? It is very simple, Mrs Martín, because the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia allow those citizens who live in Spain and Catalonia to receive education in their mother tongue, in Catalan in the case of Catalonia and in Spanish in the case of Spain. And I say to you: isn't it that you, with this initiative, are dynamitating the Statut d'Autonomia de Catalunya, where it is said very clearly that all citizens of Catalonia have the right to receive education in Catalan? Or are you not dynamizing the Spanish Constitution, where you say that all citizens of Spain must know Spanish? This is the weekly dose of Spanish nationalism, linked again to the education system, and above all to the problems generated by the Catalan education system, which we all know what they are: a lack of knowledge on the part of all Catalans of the Spanish language and a total repulse of the people of Catalonia against Spanish, we bleed our ears to Catalans when we hear speaking in Spanish. Well, no, no. Put in value the wealth of your country, put in value, if I only ask you that, to put in value once and for all. That Catalan is not a problem, that Basque is not a problem, that they are wealth that you should appreciate, value and above all protect, which is what you have not done any day in your history. Because you don't know the history of your party, either, but I saw him born in Catalonia, I know what they're defending, I know how they think, and I know why they were born. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u115	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u116	MPs, MPs, it's my turn to intervene in the witch hour. The witch hour is the last item on the agenda and the corridors of Members, who have a lot of work in the afternoon, are now accompanying us. Thank you. There are inequalities in education. Right. Can any of them be territorial? Also, but are these last ones decisive, Mrs Martín, those that underpin a diagnosis and justify a heterogeneous battery of urgent actions such as those that you Citizens propose to us? Not quite. This motion has a political objective rather than an educational one, and this is a temptation to make a political speech as well, but Joseba Agirretxea has made an excellent political speech in defense of education, I do not want to repeat and as I love and love education, I will try to talk about education. I know it's countercurrent, I understand, but I'll try to talk about education. What factors explain the differences, contrasted by scientific evidence that has sufficient basis? Look, very quickly, four categories; not one, four. First, those related to the economic, social and cultural environment of the student. Second, those that have to do with the historical process of shaping education in a territory: the demand for schooling in the 19th and 20th centuries, the social consideration of education and the performance of families and respect for education, the cultural capital accumulated in a territory. Thirdly, those which reflect the influence of the economic and productive structure: the sectoral distribution of employment or industry in the services sector, the qualified employment rate. And fourth, those who are responsible for school institutions and certain educational patterns; research based on scientific evidence. I hope that we will have in this Parliament a scientific office that before a debate like this talks about education, about the scientific bases that exist, and perhaps we will not have certain debates that are more of political ignorance than anything else. Look, the first fundamental element that the OECD recommends to us is based on the following: changing the Spanish peculiarity so as not to understand that the non-licence of the ESO is school failure. It's called titles. It is not the right path and we are still getting inside this reality. The second, do not fall into obsolete criteria and take into account that the actual student is different; we still believe in that type student who makes exams, who makes revalid and who gets ordered at the end of the course. Thirdly, and particularly related to the educational policies to be implemented, public expenditure on education. We should early detect the risk of school failure and put in place mechanisms to correct the school delay. All this has to be promoted. And that's why Lomce is a problem, because it was in the wrong direction, that's why we want to repeal it and that's why with Minister Celaá we want to talk about a number of issues that can improve education in Spain quickly, in Catalonia, in Euskadi. Improvement of children's education, reforms in second- chance programmes at the end of the ESO, the commitment to the quality of the centres, etc. The difference between you and us, beyond your obsession with the Basque and Catalan - for that happy Arcadia in which the Castilian is the only language; you have wronged the country because Spain is not so - is that you believe in a kind of educational miracle: centralization. Centralization cures everything. They look at the past. Centralization is what we have had in the past and it has been a failure. Which way is it? Decentralisation, cooperation, autonomy, solidarity. That's what we have to go to. And today you have let me down, Mrs Martín, because we agreed on many of these points in the subcommittee, but today it has again been a hammer of heretics. As the sitting began today with its president, followed by other speeches; here it was necessary to crush and not to reach agreements. We will continue along this path because education, which fights ignorance, is the basis of coexistence, of freedom and is not a battlefield for bad politics. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u118	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs. Martin, I'm bringing you an invitation today. [[Show a photocopy]] This invitation is for a theatre session held at the Espai Agora de Sabadell of the Xerrem group. They are a group of people between fifty and seventy years old who learn Catalan doing theatre. They all have two things in common: they have lived in Catalonia for more than forty years and they want to learn a language, Catalan, that the education system of Francoism did not allow them to learn, and you begin to go that same way. [[Applauds]] I invite you, Mrs Martín, to come with me one day to Espai Agora, open your mind and understand that knowledge of the languages, of all the official languages of the State, must be guaranteed by the educational system. You base this motion on the so-called inequalities between autonomous communities in education and what all the studies tell us is that inequalities are given by the socio-economic level and the socio-cultural level of families. Even the OECD stresses this. The distance between students from rich families and students from poor families in Spain is 35 points and that is not because the children of the rich are smarter, it is because the children of the poor have fewer opportunities, and you are unable to fight that. [[Applauds]] I recognize that there are territorial inequalities in Spain, but they are not between autonomous communities, Mrs Martín, but between rich cities and neighborhoods and poor cities and neighborhoods. The inequalities occur between Los Pajaritos and the centre of Seville, between Pozuelo and San Cristóbal, between Ciutat Meridiana and Pedralbes, between El Limonar and Palmilla in Malaga. And you know why? Because, unfortunately, the school is reproducing the inequalities of the social environment and that is what needs to be combated and what you are unable to devote a single proposal to. We have two tools: the state budgets that you are blocking and the education law, because you don't want rinses because probably with the Lomce is already comfortable the Citizen Party. But tell us the truth, Mrs. Martín, this motion is not about education. The motion that you are presenting today is not about education, the motion speaks of the model of state and the model of country that you want for Spain. You are constantly dreaming of a uniform, monolingual Spain, eliminating our linguistic wealth, our cultural wealth, re-centralizing the State and destroying plurinational Spain, because the important debate is the debate of social inequalities and that you are not interested in because you are already comfortable in the context of the confrontation between peoples. We've seen Mr. Rivera pick up yellow ties as if he were a hooligan. Indoctrination is invented in Catalan schools and, when denied justice, you also refuse to ask for forgiveness. They ask, as we have seen this weekend Mrs. Arrimadas, to recover Article 155 for Catalonia. You're going to Alsasua to provoke because probably with the fire in Catalonia you don't have enough. Rivera doesn't rule out pacting with Vox and avoid calling them ultra-right. You, Lords of Citizens, are the fuel that needs any fire. And I, Mrs. Martin, lately have a doubt. I don't know if you are aware that you are lying, even if that harms the educational system, or that you are beginning to believe your own lies. Therefore, I recommend that you leave your cave, and I do not mean the media cave, which you like so much, I mean the cave of Plato, to which he explained in The Republic, although I know that this word to you generates allergy because you are more of shielding the monarchy of the friends. Get out of that black and white Spain, out of that brawling Spain, and you will see that this country and its people, Mrs. Martín, have a lot of light and our public school has collaborated to make this happen. I'm done. Mrs. Martin, what you are pretending is that fictional narrative in which you feel comfortable, but which no longer stands up to you. You are like a stone cardboard scenario, behind you there is nothing; you have no educational project, and you show it in every intervention, and you have no country project, as your President Rivera has shown this afternoon with a speech for which I would have to apologize not only to this House, but to all of Spain. You have no educational project or country project, and that is why you bring motions like this, which do not seek to solve anything, but to warm the environment so that your tale quays. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martín, how proud we socialists are to be diametrically different from you, Citizens, in the educational model. [[Applauds]] Because we defend equality of opportunity and, unfortunately, its model increasingly reminds us of that of Tell Me, very close to the Franco era and those national schools. Fortunately, that model ended many years ago. And that you come to give us lessons of consensus when nothing else is announced an educational law already says that they reject it and that they will vote against it! With this in mind of the new Citizens' policy to talk about education and bring to the education system, little lessons. I thought they came to talk about territorial differences in the education system, but they have already made it very clear that what they came to talk about was their electoral project, reduced to twelve proposals, their rejection of the Lomce and a series of educational barbarities that should have begun to change by now. He tells us that we have the Constitution on some issues, but, Mrs Martín, your whole motion is based on a permanent attack on constitutional principles and you are a constitutionalist party. I think you should start looking at it by now. [[Rumors]] What an obsession they have with us all being the same! What an obsession they have with us all being twins and putting us all in the same sack of wanting to be twins! I believe that they have already succeeded with the People's Party, that of being twins, but do not try to prevent the rest of the parties from having our own political and educational position, which we have and very different. By the way, we like the heterogeneous, we like diversity, we like plurality, because we understand that they enrich the whole educational system. [[Rumors]] And when you talk about these territorial differences in education, you must remember that you have supported the People's Party in government and have been responsible for many of those differences which have been increased precisely by the policy of educational cuts that have taken place in recent years and which we have already begun to reverse. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u121	Wait a minute, Mrs. Martinez. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u122	We find it tremendous and unreal that they say that there is a discharge of functions on the part of the State as a guarantor of quality and educational equity. The indicators you use belong to the non-compulsory system. It deals with education from zero to three years, the drop-out rate and also uses the PISA report. I must remind you that the PISA report is an assessment of competences, not content, and that it only evaluates 2% of Spanish pupils; therefore, a very small percentage. In addition, the PISA report indicates that there are more differences between educational institutions than between the autonomous communities. The only EBAU - since it has taken it up in the exhibition of reasons - also comes into the field of autonomous competences and university autonomy. It should be remembered that in Castile and León the competent one is the Education Council and that it was precisely the Education Council that chose to put more topics in the university entrance test than in other autonomous communities, thus punishing the students of that community, when it could have tried to homologate the tests with other autonomous communities and thus facilitate that process of approval that you defend. And about the drop-out rate, since it has entered the comparison with Castile and León, I must say that in Castile and León for many years there has been a drop-out rate above the national average and that in recent years, since there have been competences in the field of education, it is a coincidence that Andalusia has reduced the drop-out rate by 15 points compared to the 7 points that have reduced Castile and León. [[Applauds]] I say that this is due to the autonomous policies of proximity to the territory. But compared, Mrs Martín, and since we are talking about that comparison between Castile and León and Andalusia that her twin, Mrs Tejerina, has already introduced into the national political debate, I must say that in Andalusia, precisely because of the policies of investment in education of that community, it has been achieved that the rate of schooling from zero to three years is more than 40% compared to 20% of Castile and León. That means the indicators you've been using don't work, Your Honor. They bring again the creation of the external agency of the high inspection. We are not going to enter that debate again because it has already been rejected and I think we have made our arguments very clear in previous debates. They also bring back the classic of the co-official languages and also know what our position is. And they also bring back the situation of the faculty. As you will understand, we will reject this because it is an initiative that you are urging the Government to carry out when you already know that a process of reflection and communication has begun to achieve a model within the teaching function. But what is really surprising to us is that they are urging the government to carry out an intensive scholarship programme, when precisely this government in the announced budget proposal allocates an additional 536 million to scholarships and study aid. So I did urge you to work together precisely to support those most vulnerable families who need these scholarships to move forward and who need the citizens' vote in favour of these budgets to bring social justice back to this country. [[Applauds]] In short, Your Honor, your twelve proposals are an inextricable mixture that is summed up in recentralisation. They want to change the foundations of the whole functioning of the education system, which is based, first, on the Constitution and, secondly, on the autonomous statutes themselves, which have enjoyed and enjoy a great consensus which you now seek to carry. The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes deeply in the wealth of the autonomous state and not in a model that restricts the possibilities and diversity it offers. What you're trying to do is make us all the same, homogenize and end wealth...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u123	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u124	I'm done. ...and the plurality that the system of autonomy has brought to the educational system over the years, thanks to which many of the differences you speak of have been reduced throughout all these years. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Martín Llaguno whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u126	Yes, we have written a transactional with the People's Party; it's registered.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u127	All right, thank you very much. In three minutes we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, we are going to make an institutional declaration of commitment to the maintenance of activity and employment in Alcoa, as well as to transfer support to workers from the plants in A Coruña and Avilés-Gozón. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u129	Thank you, Madam President. The Congress of Deputies wants to reaffirm its commitment to the maintenance of activity and employment in Alcoa, as well as to transfer its support to the workers of the plants of A Coruña and Avilés-Gozón. We regret and reject the company's unilateral decision to close both the A Coruña and Avilés-Gozón installations and demand that it seek alternatives for the two factories, which are a key part of the productive fabric in Galicia and Asturias. The Congress of Deputies undertakes to urge all administrations, from the unit of action, to urge the Alcoa company to withdraw the employment termination file that weighs on all workers and to open a negotiating table with all parties involved in order to find an urgent solution that guarantees the maintenance of business and employment, as well as to provide security and enable all electrointensive companies to compete on equal terms with the rest of the factories at international level. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to making a common front to continue defending the rights of the Alcoa workers and the future of this industry in Galicia and Asturias. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u131	Let's start the voting. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law for the effective equality and equal pay of the Spanish State Police. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 3 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 316 plus 2 telematics votes, 318; against, 22 plus 1 telematics vote, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u132	It's taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u133	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on the defense of social coexistence, institutional neutrality and national symbols. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 3 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 161; against, 177 plus 3 telematics votes, 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u134	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u135	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. First, no law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the sufficient financing of the Concerted Plan of Basic Services of Social Services via General Budgets of the State for an adequate exercise of the right. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 173 against, 161 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u136	It's approved. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE CRIMINAL INJURY LAW. [[File number 162/000822]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u137	No bill of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Criminal Procedure Act. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 206 against, 129 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u138	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u139	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Firstly, we are going to vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the implementation of energy measures adopted in the Congress of Deputies. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 203 against, 128 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u140	It's approved. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TERRITORIAL DIFFERENCES IN THE SPANISH EDUCATION SYSTEM. [[File number 173/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u141	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the territorial differences within the Spanish educational system. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 157 against, 179 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-13-CD181113.u142	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
