ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-16-CD180716.u1	The meeting was called to order. We started with the second vote for the election of four members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation since the first vote held last Tuesday's session did not obtain the two-thirds majority required in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the unique article of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its President. The election shall be made by the system set out in rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and those candidates who, having been nominated by at least half of the parliamentary groups of the Senate, four parliamentary groups, obtain an absolute majority of the members of the House, i.e. 176 votes, shall be elected in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree-Law. The candidates proposed by at least half of the parliamentary groups of the Senate are: Doña Ana Isabel Cerrada Escurín, don Fernando López Agudín, don Josep-Lluís Micó Sanz and don Juan Tortosa Marín. The vote will take place on the ballot system. Each Member will write up to a maximum of four names on the ballot. I would remind you that only ballot papers containing the names of the proposed candidates up to a maximum of four, as well as blank ballot papers, will be considered valid. In this vote, five telematic votes have been cast, from dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulian, from dona María Isabel Salud Areste, from dona Irene María Montero Gil, from don Pablo Iglesias Turrión and from don Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, who I am introducing in the ballot box. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. I ask the Madam Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretaries of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-16-CD180716.u2	The voting was as follows: votes cast, 305; votes in favour, Isabel Cerrada Escurín, 175; votes in favour, Fernando López Agudín, 175; votes in favour, Josep-Lluís Micó Sanz, 175; votes in favour, Juan Tortosa Marín, 175; blank votes, 2; null votes, 128. Therefore, having not obtained the favourable vote of the absolute majority of the House, the aforementioned candidates have not been elected as members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. I would also like to inform you that, having not been elected, the corresponding members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation, item II of the agenda, concerning the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors... Silence! [[Rumors]] Repeat. I should also like to inform you that since the members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation have not been elected, item II of the agenda, concerning the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, falls from the agenda. The meeting rose. It was five and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
