ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, the Community of Madrid has been governed by the People's Party for more than 20 years and it is clear - everyone sees it - that it is undergoing enormous institutional deterioration. You, as President of the Government and as President of that party that is ruling in the Madrid Community, what are you going to do to curb this institutional deterioration?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Robles, as you know, Parliament is to control the Executive and you must be very pleased with the action of the Executive that I chair when I am not asking about your actions but about other institutions. In any case, I'm willing to answer your question. What has happened in Madrid is that the President of the Community resigned on matters which have nothing to do with its management. The institutions are now functioning, procedures have been initiated to hold a new investiture session and to elect a new president. I just hope it's done soon. Secondly, I will also tell you that Madrid is the autonomous community of Spain where the economy, employment and well-being have grown the most in recent years, a very significant fact, no doubt. Perhaps the most significant is that in April of this year Madrid has achieved the record number of members of Social Security. It is therefore true that there have been some events that nobody likes to have occurred, but it is also clear that, in parallel, the Community of Madrid continued to grow, creating employment and generating well-being like no other community in the rest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u5	Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u6	I see that as President of the Government you are not interested in anything that happens in the Madrid Community. I don't know if the Lezo case, the Púnica case, the Gürtel case, private and public files that go here and there, videos that are saved seven years to get them out at the right time, cross-denunciations, because it is Mrs Cifuentes who denounces the case of the Canal and that of the City of Justice. Where is the City of Justice, I ask you. It also turns out that Mrs Cifuentes questions the Masters of the Public University of Madrid, but that doesn't matter to you. You said that Mrs Cifuentes had given reasons for this and also said it in front of a colleague of yours, the Danish President, and said that, as she had explained, the government pact had to continue. Ah, that's right, the day a video appeared with some creams, just the day you came here for the whole budget amendment debate, you understood that those creams could not disturb your whole debate. By the way, they were all amendments that you agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party and that allowed you to take out what you did not give the pensioners a month before. We already see what you pensioners care about, as your Secretary of State for Communication has already said. You used pensioners as a commodity to continue longer in the government, because that's what you want, to continue longer in the government. You don't care about the Public University of Madrid, you don't care about creams; you have to continue in government. [[Rumors]] Citizens are a little tired of your finger, the finger you make and undo, but worse than you are Mr. Rivera's party, who has the dare to come here... [[laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u7	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u8	...to give lessons to the Socialist Party and what it will do with its support is to use whitening creams of corruption in Madrid. That's what he cares about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u10	Your Honor, as we are talking here about the government, I am not going to make any reference to autonomous communities where you have been ruling for forty years and have two presidents, who have been of them, sitting on the bench. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I am not going to make any reference to this matter simply in order not to rise to its level. I would, however, like to comment on the situation of pensions. Pensions this year are going to rise, thanks to the government-led budget proposal, far more than the Socialist Party had proposed in this House. If you don't like it, I'm very sorry, but I'm very satisfied with the agreement we've reached. Perhaps if you had signed up to the agreement, you could explain to the citizens what you are doing, that is, what is the usefulness of your party, because I believe that in the budget debate the only benefit of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party will be to say no to a budget with a growth of 2.7; with a forecast of job creation of 475 000 jobs; with a salary increase of officials, after an agreement with the unions, for three years; with a salary increase of the State Security Forces and Bodies, already equipping them in a first step with the autonomous police; with an increase of more than EUR 4 billion for the autonomous communities and, therefore, for health and education. You're going to stay in absolutely nothing, in absolutely irrelevant, and I, even if I don't believe it, I'm sorry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM MAY IN COMMUNITY, WHICH FORMS THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE CASES OF CORRUPTION AFFECTING HIS PARTY MUST BE CONSIDERED AS ISLANDED CASES? [[File number 180/00621]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u12	Question of the deputy Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the President of the Government think that cases of corruption affecting his party can continue to be considered isolated cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u14	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. As in any facet of life, Mr. Iglesias, there is also a certain weighting in this matter. I do not minimize or magnify any irregular actions, I reject them all - of course also those of your party - and those that affect my attempt to deal with them with realism and try to make fair decisions, and above all work to prevent such situations from being repeated in the future, which I believe is the most important thing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u16	Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u17	Mr Rajoy, I am grateful to you for addressing with weight and realism the cases of corruption that affect your party. I really wish I didn't have to ask you so many times about this, but every week your party brings us new news about corruption. I have to remind you that our parliamentary spokesman from that rostrum was two minutes listing cases of corruption of your party for shame of you and of the citizenry. During the last few weeks Madrid has become the topic of conversation because of your party, and this affects you. Let me recap: as Esperanza Aguirre was stained with corruption, you put Ignacio González; as Ignacio González was stained with corruption, you put Cristina Cifuentes; as Cristina Cifuentes was stained with corruption, you put Mr. Garrido, who was an advisor to Cifuentes and Aguirre. What can go wrong, Mr. Mariano Rajoy? [[Applauds]] Look, you have been able to use the Ministry of Justice - yes, Mr Catalá - to protect corrupt people; you have been able to make tax amnesties - yes, Mr Montoro - to protect defrauders who have been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and in recent weeks you have humiliated the dignity of Spanish public universities. In this country there are many people who have to strive for their children to go to college; in this country there are many students who know what it is to do a master's degree and know what it is to do a doctorate and yet they have had to emigrate from Spain. You are the greatest threat against the public, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, because corruption is the greatest threat against the public. And now you bring us the solution and tell us that the solution is to present clean candidates with clean curriculum. I ask you a very simple question and I hope you will answer it: Can you guarantee that the candidates you are going to present are at least as clean as you are? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, Mr. Churches, you always ask me the same thing, you repeat yourself without any rest. And, one of two, either you've lost imagination and freshness or the government that I chair does it very well and then you have to ask me what the others are doing. I am left with this hypothesis, so you do not lose imagination and freshness and yet you do recognize that the government I chair is doing very well and therefore you have to ask me about other things. [[Laughter and applause]] It may also happen that you claim with your questions that I speak of the fellow you collected without appearing for the university, to which you have then imposed as a candidate for the Presidency of the Community of Madrid - I have not imposed on anyone; you are the one who imposes them - or of the defendants of your party here, or of the boss who has there who did not pay for Social Security, or of the deputy of my people - my people is Galicia - and of your party, which as you know is Podemos, who devoted his deserved moments of boldness to breaking rear-view mirrors of the cars of people who had the dare to park on the street where she was travelling. [[applause]] Of everything we have seen in the Lord's vineyard, and that has only been two years, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] But, Your Honor, that's not what I'm going to talk about. And I am not going to tell you about the honourable Member who sits two seats higher than hers and who has dared to break the traditional harmony that exists in her party. I'm not going to talk to him about that either. [[Laughter]] And you know why I'm not gonna talk to you about that? Because I believe that all of this harms you and, even if you don't believe it, I don't want to harm you. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Laughter and applause]] - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, of the CIO parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: Why hasn't he even appealed to the Constitutional Court for a vote in the Parliament of Deputy Courts of Justice? [[File number 180/00624]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u20	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u21	Thank you, President. Mr. Rajoy, I'm not going to ask you about creams or mirrors, I'm going to ask you about something that seems more serious and more serious. They've given us a coup d'état in Catalonia, we've got some runaway gentlemen... [[Several Members: Hala!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u22	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u23	Yes, you have given us a coup d'état in Catalonia. Despite you, we have defended democracy together. We support you in applying 155 of the Constitution, Mr Rajoy, we support you in your investiture when no one else in this House supported you, and you know it. We have supported the budgets at difficult times and therefore with all authority and legitimacy I ask you: why, Mr Rajoy, have you decided not to appeal to the Constitutional Court the delegated vote of two fugitives from justice, Mr Comin and Mr Puigdemont? It makes no sense, in my opinion and that of our group, that two gentlemen who are fleeing justice, who are giving a coup d'état, have a privilege that does not have a Member of this House, because we recently voted on the budgets here. Imagine - that came from a vote - that some Member cannot vote. I couldn't delegate the vote. And can a fugitive from justice do so? Mr Rajoy, act and appeal to the Constitutional Court. If not, explain to us why you do not intend to do so. If he does, he has our support. If you do not, you will not be able to count on our support to implement the Constitution in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u24	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Mr Rivera, I am the President of the Government, as you know, I try to fulfil my obligations, I have implemented Article 155 of the Constitution, I have tried to do so with prudence and measure and at the same time with firmness. That had never happened in Spain because, as you very well know, it is a decision that is not exactly easy. But in addition to taking that decision, I have filed with the Constitutional Court twenty-five appeals, Your Honor, twenty-five appeals for proceedings relating to the so-called proceedings. Today, I have convened an extraordinary Council of Ministers for eleven in the morning with the aim of re-applying a decision of the Parliament of Catalonia which claimed that there should be an investiture of a person fleeing justice who does not live in Spain and that the Government of the Generalitat could also hold meetings outside Spain, which is obviously absurd. The only reason I have not raised that appeal to which you have referred is because the State legal services consider that this appeal cannot be brought by the Government of Spain for lack of legitimacy and because there are precedents in the Constitutional Court that advise us not to do so. So, I can't act capriciously or because I think about it, but I have to attend to what my services tell me. I insist, I believe, that the fact that I have applied 155 and filed twenty-five appeals, frankly, makes me suspect nothing, at least in this matter, Mr Rivera. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u26	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u27	Mr Rajoy, since you have done nothing in this matter... [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Man!-Protests]] In Mr Comin's and Mr Puigdemont's delegated vote, although you do not like it, you have not appealed. You don't want to resort to something obvious. We have done so and thirty-six citizens' deputies have been allowed to apply for amparo. If you admit it to the Constitutional Court, Mr Rajoy, it won't be so strange. Therefore, do not rely on this argument because the Constitution this week has admitted to a citizens' appeal. So why don't you do it? You'll have to explain it to us. But I'll tell you one thing, speaking of suspicions. First, this doesn't go for kilos, it doesn't go for number of resources, it's about right, and we ask you to do it. We have supported you in everything, Mr Rajoy; in everything, no group in this House has supported you as much as Citizens, and that is why we are asking you to do so. Secondly, Mr Rajoy, today we have learned that the prosecution confirms that money from the FLA - which you said here was not a hard one - was spent on 9N, not on 1 October, but on 9 November. [[Show a cover of the newspaper El Mundo]] Mr. Rajoy, this is a haircut. It can't be that you don't keep an eye on public money, it can't be that with bills on the money of all the Spaniards, we can't be fooled by those who give a coup d'état. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, I ask you to keep an eye on the money and, if not, to hold someone responsible. You can't look the other way while you give us a punch. Mr Rajoy, we have supported you so far, but we will continue to support you if you watch closely what the separatists do in Catalonia. Otherwise, you won't be able to count on our support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u28	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u29	Look, Your Honor, the deputies of the People's Party have also appealed to the Constitutional Court. Those who do not have the active legitimacy to do so are the Spanish Government but the Members of Parliament of Catalonia. [[Rumors]] If not, I would have gone, because you will understand that after filing twenty-five appeals it makes no sense whatsoever not to file twenty-six, except to allow you to ask a question here in this House. [[Laughter]] I'll tell you one thing. I think we have a shared goal and I think that staging an alleged disagreement really has no interest. And I don't think it's good to devote your energies to criticizing the government on state affairs, Mr Rivera. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz re-shows the cover of the newspaper El Mundo]] I think this doesn't give you a vote, this can make you lose votes and make a lot of people not take it seriously because you see that you're from 'appreciategui' on an important topic. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] I ask you to behave with the same loyalty with which the Socialist Party is acting, and I do not know if I harm you with this statement. Simply behave yourself as you are acting on the issue of Catalonia the Socialist Party and, frankly, we would all do much better. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u30	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE THE TERM OF THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST THE VIOLENCE OF GENERATION WITH REGARD TO IMPROVING THE TRAINING OF LEGAL WORKERS IN THIS MATTER? [[File number 180/00616]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in September 2017 this House approved the State Pact against Gender Violence. One of the measures of this pact was to extend specialized training to professionals in the administration of justice. It has been eight months and this Government has not yet done anything. That is why I ask you: when will the government start to comply with the state pact? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence had a special impetus when we agreed to it by the groups in the House, but we had been working on it for a long time, even for many governments. Gender-based violence awareness training is being conducted on a daily basis. In your question I am consulted by the legal operators, and the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice is with the prosecutors, officials and lawyers of the Administration of Justice. The competence in the formation of judges is vested in me by the General Council of the Judiciary and I am aware of the commitment of the General Council of the Judiciary to initial and continuing training. The Centre for Legal Studies is training intensively on this subject and is increasing resources. We are therefore working on all the contents of the state pact and, in particular, on singular training to increase sensitivity in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u34	Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u35	Minister, I deeply regret to say this but it is that the Government of the nation is doing nothing to comply with the pact against violence. Look, they haven't even put the resources that had been agreed upon on the table. Where are the 200 million euros? They do not appear in the General Budgets of the State, however much you and Citizens say they are. Nor do they have any provision to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary. It is true that, in line with the social alarm generated by the ruling known a few weeks ago, you have called the Codification Commission to review sexual offences. Look, Minister, women are not invited to committees, we are protagonists of committees; we are protagonists. [[Applauds]] Therefore, amend that Codification Committee. It must be assumed that many of the words and assessments hidden in some sentences are particularly harmful because there is no worse helplessness for women who suffer violence than that of those who should protect them. In view of its apathy, the Socialist Group has introduced a law on urgent measures which includes specific and ongoing training in gender-based violence for judges and prosecutors in the opposition phase, in the Judicial School and in continuing training in the judicial and prosecutorial career. Minister, there are no unique problems here, there is a huge collective problem here. The lack of empathy - we have told you many times, I told you six months ago here - is only corrected with training for judges and prosecutors. It is urgent because, in addition, these professionals have a major responsibility in the fight against macho violence. Indeed, in the area of effective judicial protection, Minister, neither a step backwards nor a step backwards in the defence of women. Justice must be, above all, the last guarantee of women, not the last refuge of patriarchy, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u37	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, as I said, within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, there has been an increase of 187 per cent in training hours in the fight against the various types of violence, in particular violence against women; there has been an increase of 46 per cent - more than four times - in the number of persons involved in these training activities of the Centre for Legal Studies, attended by prosecutors, State lawyers, forensics and civil servants. Therefore, as far as the competencies of the ministry are concerned, we are working intensively. I agree absolutely with one of your reflections. We must continue to work, reform the laws - because it is also necessary - and the Supreme Court of Spain has said that the regulation of sexual offences is far-reaching and complex legislation and, therefore, we must do so with the help of the support bodies, although this reform will come to this House and then to the Senate, that is, what we will agree on - if we consider it appropriate - in Parliament. In any case, Your Honor, I fully agree that awareness and language must be strengthened, non-sexist language guides must be established, but they must also be applied and monitored. That is a commitment of all, of the whole society, in which we will surely agree. We are therefore ready to work in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND TO MARIA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT IMPLEMENT TO GUARANTEE THE GENERAL'S PERSPECTIVE NEED FOR JUSTICE? [[File number 180/00622]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u39	Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u40	Thank you, President. Minister, what measures will the Government implement to ensure the necessary gender perspective in justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u41	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u42	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as Mrs Lastra said a moment ago, the powers of the Government in the field of justice are limited, here are also the autonomous communities, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney-General of the State and certainly this Parliament and the Government of the nation. I believe that this is the right approach to carrying out something as necessary as providing a gender perspective in all public policies and also in particular in justice. I am convinced that in our country there has been a significant social transformation in recent years in many fields and in particular in the position of women. In respect of women's rights, in respect of women's sexual freedom, there has been a major change in society, so we have to change the rules, we have to change the rules and we have to change the culture. And how do we do that? Well, I think it's a lot of different ways. The policy of equality and the awareness of professionals must be promoted; it must also be done in the interpretation of the rules; stereotypes that are consolidated in our society must be changed; the use of language must be improved; respect for the victim must also be improved and guidelines must be established that must be followed. In all this we have to work: on the responsibilities of the Government, on the responsibilities of Parliament and on the responsibilities of all the institutions with competence in the field of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u43	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u44	Look, Minister, you basically tell me that everything is going well and that they are doing everything very well when it is the government that has despised and tried to criminalise the feminist movement in Spain and it is the government that today continues to fail to comply with the State Pact against Gender Violence and without allocating a budget. And these days we have heard you say that this that happened with La Manada's sentence was an individual problem of a judge, when in reality what is happening in Spain is that we have a structural problem that is a justice without a gender perspective. That's why there are judges who say they see joy and sexual excitement in a gang rape; they ask a raped woman if she closed her legs properly so they wouldn't rape her. And that's why we find many sentences, as the UN and Amnesty International warn, that blame the victims and perpetuate the culture of rape. As you see, minister, there is no problem here of harshing sentences, this is not solved with the permanent prison reviewable, as you have often proposed. It is clear that a reform of the Criminal Code is necessary to guarantee the sexual freedoms of women, but there will not be a Penal Code, nor will there be a sentence that can replace comprehensive policies to fight for the guarantee of sexual freedoms. I am going to make four very concrete proposals to you. The first, committed to public policies that protect and repair victims of sexual violence, which is not happening now; for example, the victim of La Manada could not, according to Law 1/2004, be recognized as a victim of macho violence and, therefore, has not had access to the relevant remedies. The second proposal is to adapt our laws to comply with the Istanbul Convention, which recognizes sexual violence as forms of sexist violence. In Spain the macho violence that takes place outside the couple or the ex-partner does not have sufficient legal support right now. Thirdly, they comply, as required, with CEDAW recommendation 35, which clearly points out the lack of a gender perspective in the law; and training is needed, not awareness-raising courses: rigorous training. And finally, you change the composition of the commission that is going to evaluate the reforms of the Penal Code and ensure - as required by law - that it is a joint body, that women are rebelling because you are putting them in the hood to try to disguise; because you want them to legislate only on women men. Correct, Mr. Catalá. No judge in this country can think anything different than that if a woman doesn't say yes, the rest is rape, the rest is sexual assault. Correct yourself and, if not, resign, Mr. Catalá. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u46	Thank you, President. I am glad, Mrs Montero, that it coincides with my first speech, because that is what I said to you in my first speech. I am convinced that what you say are some of the things we have to do. Laws must be changed because the laws must be adapted to the social moment and to the social reality of Spain. We have to change behaviors. We have to change cultures. Ethics must be required in the application of these rules and, therefore, monitoring and monitoring. I'm sure, Your Honor, that if a woman five people steal a cell phone, no one is going to doubt that there's been intimidation, no one is going to doubt it. I therefore believe that any sexual offence cannot be exempt from that consideration and therefore I absolutely agree with its approach. And that's not a matter of laws; it's a matter of culture, of implementation in that way of understanding things, and that's what we have to work on. We have been working on this since the formation, as we are doing, as is the General Council of the Judiciary, as is the Law of the State, as is the Office of the Attorney General of the State. He's working and there's a lot of road ahead. I didn't say it was all settled or much less. There is much to be done and some judgments show that we have a long way to go, and that is where we will continue to work this Government and this parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DADDY ZAIDA CANTERA DE CASTRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE: WHY DO THE GOVERNMENT KEEP A AGUSTIN AS THE SECRETARY OF THE STATE OF DEFENSE? [[File number 180/00617]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u48	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mrs Zaida Cantera de Castro, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u49	Thank you very much. Minister, why does the Government keep Mr Agustín Conde as Secretary of State for Defence, taking into account the recent news that affects his person, and thus the reputation, credibility and prestige of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u50	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Because the reasons for his appointment remain, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u52	Mrs. Cantera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u53	Mrs Cospedal, you appointed Count number two of the Ministry of Defence; a ministry whose women and men are governed by high values and principles such as discipline, honor, courage and honesty; men and women who are called upon to conduct themselves in their actions and their duties; women and men who carry the flag of Spain to great honor on their shoulders and whose behaviour is not only exemplary, but also seems exemplary; I repeat, it seems so. These women and men represent the best of the brand Spain, and it turns out that here we meet a secretary of state appointed by you who could be honored - I am not going to be the one to point out - but of course it does not seem so. And I say that it does not seem so because the report of the Council of Europe casts doubt on Mr Conde's honesty in assigning him different breaches of his code of ethics. They all refer to their lack of conduct and conduct as an observer of the OSCE, favoring the Azerbaijan regime with their behaviour. Madam Minister, 'this army that you see, / vague to the ice and heat, / the better republic / and more politics is / of the world, in which no one expects / that to be preferred / can by the nobility that inherits, / but by the one that he acquires; / because here to the blood exceeds / the place that one is made / and without looking at how born / looks how proceeds'. Minister, we demand high standards of behavior from our military in Spain and much higher abroad as representatives of our homeland, of our brand Spain. We must demand the same from our political representatives. I hope and wish for the prestige of Spain and of our military that Mr Conde can give conclusive and truthful explanations that will allow us to clear up any doubts about his course, because today he has not given them, further sowing suspicions about his honesty, and this, Minister, is not worthy of our Armed Forces. They don't deserve a number two in the Ministry of Defense that doesn't come out to give conclusive explanations quickly to clear up any doubts. Minister, Here finally courtesy, good treatment, truth, firmness, loyalty, honor, bizarrery, credit, opinion, constancy, patience, humility and obedience, fame, honor and life are the flow of poor soldiers who in good or bad fortune the militia is nothing but a religion of honest men and women. It must seem so, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cantera. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Cantera, first of all, as everyone knows, I fully agree with the statements you have made about the qualities of members, men and women of the Armed Forces. But I will try to explain it to you quickly, because I believe that either you have not been well informed or you have not understood the report of the Council of Europe to which you refer. This report attempts to verify the existing accusations against various members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for allegedly letting themselves be influenced or succumbed to lobbying by the Azerbaijani Government. These accusations are based on two previous dossiers of associations, one of which is certainly also registered as a lobby before the European Union and with interests contrary to the Government of Azerbaijan. Mr. Count has two things in the report. The first, to be one of the parliamentarians who called for a legal report back in 2011 to objectively define the concept of political prisoners, before any resolution could be made to serve as a reference to all Council of Europe resolutions. In view of the importance of the matter, Mr Conde then asked for advice from the Socialist Party, which was ruling in Spain, which recommended to him as rapporteur on the technical committee that he would make that definition to Judge Gómez Bermúdez, as was done. Today there is a definition of political prisoner in the Council of Europe thanks, among other things, to the action of Mr Conde. The second: he is accused that the other drafter for the Azerbaijani country, a member of the Polish Socialist Group, received an e-mail from an alleged lobbyist in favour of holding an observation mission in the elections in Azerbaijan. That mail wasn't for Mr. Count, it was for someone else. What happened? Well, elections were held. Please see the account of the Assembly of the Council of Europe: It expresses deep concern about the damage to human rights in Azerbaijan, where the working conditions of NGOs and human rights defenders have deteriorated significantly. Therefore, influence and dishonesty, never; criterion, defense of human rights and the law, always, which are the qualities that are requested of a secretary of state of defense. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. - of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can, in common, formulate for the Minister of Public Affairs and Function: does the Government think to impulse any measure to facilitate the renewal of the RTV CORPORATION through a public contest in response to the MAYORITARY POLITICAL CONSENSUS? [[File number 180/00623]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u57	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, does the Government intend to implement any measures to unlock the majority agreement of this House to renew Spanish Broadcasting with a public competition?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Vera, on the occasion of your question and also on the question that I had yesterday in the Senate, I have been reviewing the law to which you refer, and the truth is that I do not find the reason why the Government should be in a law that is a proposed law of these Chambers, which is in the Chambers and pending legal reports from the Bureaux of Congress and the Senate. The government is the executive and we are now talking about a proposal, absolutely legislative, which you are promoting alongside other political groups in the House in search of an agreement. Therefore the Government - I answer the same as I answered yesterday in the Senate - is neither in nor can it be expected in this matter; nor can nor should it. Your Honor, there are times when it is neither possible nor due, and I therefore invoke precisely the capacity of the Chambers to carry out their task in the new definition of the governing bodies of Spanish Radio and Television. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u62	Mr Montoro, I will explain to you why it is important for the government to get involved a little bit. I will remind you of the cases of manipulation of Spanish Radio-television, not even on behalf of my parliamentary group, but of the workers, and above all of the workers who, with great courage and knowing that they will be retaliated, are denouncing concrete cases with the campaign This is manipulated, on Twitter. I'm going to give you three examples. The first: My bosses in Spanish Television commissioned me to do the piece on the audios of Minister Jorge Fernández Díaz. I told them that without audios, I didn't sign or read, and at ten minutes they took me and put another one. Second case I put to you, forcing you to censor the video of the Secretary of State of Communication in which he appears saying, with very little shame, to the decent pensioners of this country: You fuck. Do you know what happened yesterday? For this journalist, this editor of Valencia resigned out of respect for her work and the right to information. I will give you a third example, for a question of justice and dignity with my parliamentary group, which will sound like you because you got stuck up your neck with him: They put on my table a news without contrast that accused Juan Carlos Monedero of tax fraud. After contrasting what that pamphlet said, I said it wasn't true, it wasn't fraud or imputation. Do you know what they answered, Mr. Montoro? Make it look like it. That's what they told that journalist. [[Applauds]] I invite you, if you want to know more examples, to enter the hashtag. That's how you manipulate yourself on Twitter, and if you don't get along very well with social media, you hire the same company that hired your party to bugger and stifle the activity of Podemos, of my parliamentary group on social media. Having said that, Mr Montoro, you are laughing at the workers, at the people who pay for public service, and you are laughing at democracy and this House. There is a majority agreement that came forward seven months ago in this House. Ana Pastor - who is not here today - told us to bring a majority agreement, we brought it PSOE, United Podemos, Citizens, PNV, Republican Left, the entire Joint Group, and, you know what she has done? Block it. He didn't heed it, he blocked it. Mr Montoro, we are not going to stop until this law is complied with; and we are not going to do so, if you do not, until you are ashamed of yourself for a matter simply of true parliamentary decorum. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u64	Mr President, Your Honor, Spanish Television is made up of magnificent information professionals. Spanish Television leads the audience indexes of its news. Spanish Television is in an area of freedom of expression that, as the socialist senator said yesterday, perhaps you don't like an informative, but you can change the chain, you know? We have freedom in Spain. [[Mrs. Vera Ruiz-Herrera: That's what we all pay for.- Rumors]] It's just like that.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u66	Freedom is that. From there I will remind his lordship that when he raised the question he came to say that this minister was the one who handled the media in Spain, as he is well known and well represented, as you came to say from the rostrum. [[laughs]] There is nothing more to see than the treatment of the Government and this minister in the media. If you have said it perfectly: you are looking for a political consensus, I can only do as a government to recommend that if you seek a political agreement in this House take into account the majority political group in this House, but up to that point you have arrived, otherwise I cannot and must not be a government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT MANAGEMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED TO DO WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF ISRAEL, IN CONNECTION WITH THE ASSINATE, THE 30TH MARCH, OF 18 DISARMAMENTED CIVILS WHICH WERE PACIFICLY MANIFERED, BY DISPOSITION OF FRANCOTIRATORS OF THE ISRAEL EJERCITY? [[File number 180/00597]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u68	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. What is your Government doing in the face of the military offensive against civilians in Gaza?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u71	Thank you, President. The Government of Spain is very concerned about the development of developments taking place in the Gaza Strip. We are talking, Your Honor, about the first initially peaceful demonstration convened in the Gaza Strip in commemoration of Palestinian Earth Day, which later had a second call on Friday, 6 April. Since then, the Government of Spain has been following with concern developments in the Gaza Strip, and we regret the high number of deaths and injuries that have occurred. The Government of Spain has joined the urgent appeal made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, and above all that appeal to the parties to prevent further casualties among the civilian population at all times, and to an impartial, independent and transparent investigation of the facts; an appeal which, as you know, has also been supported by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union, Federica Mogherini. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u73	Friday 30 April, 19 dead; Friday 6 April, 13 dead; Friday 13 April, 7 dead. And so on Friday after Friday. Military snipers firing at unarmed civilians in peaceful demonstrations: 44 killed and more than 3,000 wounded. In the words of Jews for Peace: we are horrified by the Israeli response to the great march of the earth. As Jews we recognize in these facts the sufferings of our own history. This is what survivors of the holocaust call it. Minister, gentlemen of the Government, you do not know what is happening in Gaza, you do not know what is happening in Palestine, you do not know what Israel is doing. And not a mean line, not a press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What are you doing in the face of this human and political drama? On the one hand, they allow the arms trade to continue with a State that commits war crimes every day, which jumps and mocks international law every day. On the other hand, they leave our co-operators behind, leave behind cooperation and allow Israel to destroy more than 70 cooperation projects financed by the solidarity effort of our society. In short, it seems that the Minister of Defence, Mrs Cospedal, is speeding up the sale of arms, and for her part the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dastis, as always: to see, hear and, above all, to silence. His foreign policy is servile and subordinate. Just like when José Couso was killed, just like when Julio Anguita Parrado was killed. [[Applauds]] It is well known that the governments of the People's Party in front of the powerful people of the world are looking elsewhere. For twenty years a child has been dying in Palestine every day. Since his Government does not, we are going to do so here today, we appeal to the international community: there are more than 2 million people imprisoned every day in an open-pit prison and it is called Gaza. If, as Vittorio Arrigoni said, if, as Mahmoud Armiso said and as Isaac Rabin himself said, we remain human, let us work but truly for peace between Israel and Palestine, let us stop the killing of civilians, let us stop the blockade on Gaza, let us courageously recognize the Palestinian State and stop looking elsewhere. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, because you shout, I assure you, you will not be able to move and above all to deceive the Spanish people about the statements you have made. I will assure you, when you spoke of the Minister of Defence, that Spain has one of the most reliable systems of trade control in defence and dual use in the world, so that you know. And as for the Foreign Minister, whom he also mentioned, I must say that he has made it clear and very clear that Spain is supporting a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but based on two states, Israel and Palestine, so that they can live together in peace and security, with internationally recognized borders and with Jerusalem as a shared capital. That is why the Government has called for the urgent resumption of peace negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, and that is why in Spain all Governments have been deeply involved in the peace process since Madrid hosted the peace conference in 1991. Palestine that you know is a priority for the new Spanish Cooperation Master Plan 2017-2020, and that is why since 2010 - and I will quote a series of data for you to check if you want and do not continue to lie - Spain has contributed more than 215 million euros in official aid to Palestine, and of them only in humanitarian aid... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED BLACK SEA GARRID, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PUBLIC DISOLUTION ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE TERRORIST ORGANIZATION ETA? [[File number 180/00628]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u77	Question by Mrs Maria del Mar Blanco Garrido, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ETA has been defeated thanks to the firmness of our rule of law, once again gains democracy and loses terror, and that is why they will allow me to pay tribute today to each and every one of the victims of terrorism, all innocent victims, none guilty, no deserving of a bomb or a shot in the back of the head. All the victims were alien to ETA's totalitarian and mafia pretensions, because they were the only ones who unilaterally decided to murder, kidnap and torture unjustly and cruelly. The father and brother of our colleague Jaime Mateu were civil guards, defenders of freedom and defenders of a coexistence based on respect and tolerance. Dressing up the green uniform did not make them guilty or worthy of their tragic end, nor did the councillors, judges, prosecutors, police officers and so on until they reached the chilling figure of over eight hundred innocents murdered unjustly. ETA disappears, but its past remains. Therefore its dissolution can never be understood as a point and end. Now more than ever, it is more important to contribute to truth, memory, dignity and justice, and it is therefore difficult to understand that some people are more in a hurry to talk about benefits for terrorists than to promote a true story that avoids equidistance or ambiguity, a story that clearly captures the existence of victims and executioners, without the slightest justification of terrorists. ETA disappears, but its obligation to cooperate with justice remains, helping to clarify the more than 300 unsolved crimes, and making it possible for each and every one of those responsible to carry out their sentence, because they cannot find any way to impunity for their crimes, simply because democracy owes absolutely nothing to whom so much pain and suffering has sown for our country over five decades. Democracy wins, they lose those who intended to establish a regime of terror, and they know it, by many pathetic acts of propaganda and humiliating communiqués they want to carry out. Its dissolution is the finding of evidence, its defeat. That is why, as the President of the Government said last Friday, today is a day for remembrance and tribute, today is a day to look to us with satisfaction as a country and as a society, because Spanish democracy has definitely defeated terror. That is why I ask you, Minister, what assessment the Government makes of the announcement of the dissolution made public by the terrorist organization ETA. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, ETA hasn't dissolved. It has been defeated by Spanish society, by the State Security Forces and Corpses, by the various governments, by the judges, by the prosecutors and, in particular, by the victims of terrorism, with that memory, that dignity, that justice that we are always remembering that we have to have with all of them. [[applause]] Today I want to start by reminding civil guards Manuel López, Juan Marcos, Miguel Ángel Íñigo and Francisco Álvarez and a national police officer, Antonio Moreno, who were vilely killed by ETA on May 9, as today. They all wore, ladies and gentlemen, with pride a uniform and also had the vocation to serve and protect others, and so terrorists dare to say that they consider their murders justified, and they are not asked for forgiveness. I would like to remind you here today, them and all the victims of terrorism, because we cannot make any distinctions and because we have a firm commitment to the victims of terrorism to ensure permanent memory, dignity, truth and justice. ETA has been defeated - I said, Your Honor - thanks to the efforts of Spanish society and of all those who have collaborated. ETA has had to assume its defeat and that it has not achieved any of the objectives that had been proposed, except to sow terror and pain, and the Government will continue to work to resolve each and every issue that remains to be clarified. There will be no impunity of any kind. Nothing was received by the terrorists when they stopped killing and nothing will be received now, because we owe them nothing, unless the law is scrupulously enforced. It is they, the terrorists, who are in debt to Spanish society and to the victims, for fifty years killing, for 853 murders and for 354 murders that remain unresolved. The Government will continue to demand that ETA terrorists repent, apologize, pay their debts and cooperate with justice. The Government will continue to work to clarify the outstanding cases, so that the true story will triumph, so that it will never forget that there are victims and there were executioners, so that the voice of the victims will reach the educational centers, so that the assistance to the victims will improve, because the acronyms will disappear, but never the murders, never the pain of the victims and never those who pressed the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL GONZALEZ RAMOS MANUAL, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHERE THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT TO KEEP Is the current level of aid in the new budget of the European Commission in the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027? [[CAP]] [[File number 180/00620]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u82	Question by Mr Manuel Gabriel González Ramos, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, how far does the Government's commitment to maintain the current level of aid in the new budget of the European Commission, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, go?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u84	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. The government's commitment to Spanish farmers is total and it is of the whole government, starting with its president, Mariano Rajoy, who met with the Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, to transfer the importance of the CAP to Spain, which before the presentation of the budget proposal achieved a much better starting point, after talking to President Juncker, and that is why today we are starting to negotiate with a much better starting point, with a drop of 5% and not 30%, as announced by the Commission. Chances don't exist, ladies and gentlemen. The Government's commitment and work will continue in the negotiations that have just begun, where our goal is to maintain the level of support for our farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week the European budget for the years 2020-2027 was presented in Brussels in the financial framework. The European accounts, Minister, show a large cut in the CAP, which would reach 16 or 17%, and not 5% as they try to make us believe; so do all the agricultural professional organisations in our country. Even the announcement of the 5% cut cannot be allowed in our field, because it would entail the loss of more than 400 million euros a year. The Socialist Group considers this reduction in the budget of the only truly common policy of the European Union unacceptable. Madam Minister, we have important political reasons and justifications, because the reform and cuts proposed by the European Commission will penalise the economic profitability of our agricultural holdings; it will prevent the necessary generational relief; it will negatively affect our capacity for production, marketing and food security; it will take us away from the Community commitments on sustainability and climate change; and, moreover, minister, it will exacerbate the problem of the depopulation of many of our peoples. For these reasons, from this Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want the Spanish Government to maintain a firm position in defence of our farmers and farmers. The past few weeks, Minister, when you learned of the European Commission's proposal for a cut-off, you said something like that was a good starting point for negotiation. We do not believe it; we do not believe it because the Rajoy government is a weak government, it is a government without credibility, and above all it is a government without political weight in Brussels and which is currently causing insecurity for an important negotiation for our agriculture. The parliamentary group will be next to the government to defend at least the current budget, but it will also be belligerent to say no to cuts. Today, on Europe Day, Minister, it is a good day to tell you that the government cannot and must not accept a euro less for our farmers, not a euro less for rural development, not a euro less for the cohesion funds of this country. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u88	Thank you very much, Mr González. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u89	President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work of the Government, the Commission's proposal is not a 30% reduction for the CAP and it is not co-financed. The government's objective - we have clearly said this - is to consolidate aid for the sector, as we have already achieved in 2013: more than EUR 47 billion. I'm going to refresh his memory. You only had to negotiate rural development for the year 2005 for the period 2006-2013. Fortunately for farmers, the first pillar has already been secured by us in 2002. Well, in 2006 the rural development budget increased by more than EUR 5 billion for the European Union to fifteen. You have lost more than €1.3 billion, that is, your government has invited French and German farmers to a round of €1.3 billion. That's right, you didn't pay it, the government didn't pay it, the Spanish farmers paid it. This is the difference between going to sleep at night or staying awake defending Spain's interest. On the contrary, in the negotiations of the period 2014-2020 our Government managed to increase slightly the budget for the CAP for Spain, despite the fact that for the first time there was less budget for the whole of the European Union. In the negotiation that is now beginning, I can assure you that we have been working for many months, and working very rigorously. That is why we are starting today from a minus 5 and not from a minus 30; minus 5 which is divided into a minus 15 for rural development and a minus 3.5% drop in direct aid, which is the most worrying of farmers: minus 3.5% I insist; despite the government's objective that there should be no drop and we will do so as we have always done, with alliances with other Member States to - I insist - maintain support for the objective we seek. You know, Your Honor, as all farmers know, that the only government capable of successfully carrying out the negotiations is President Rajoy's government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHY DO YOU KEEP IN YOUR OFFICE AS PRESIDENT OF THE POOR OF BARCELONA TO A TREATMENT IMPUTATE OF 3%? [[File number 180/00625]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u91	Questions to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u92	Minister, I am sure you have heard of the 3% plot, the 3% plot, which is a global example of how to organize a criminal structure from the public authorities by applying bites to everyone who moves, especially those who want to do public work. Within that plot there is one thing called Operation Pica, which, although it seems to be fun, is not; they put it on the pica-pica, because it was full of people, friends of Convergence, who were biting where they could. One of the accused for the past year in this operation is Mr Sixte Cambra, who is currently chairing the Port of Barcelona, an entity under the Ministry of Development. Can you explain to me how it is possible that Mr. Sixte Cambra is still in that position, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Girauta, let me reply with several observations. Firstly, the presidents of the port authorities do not appoint them by the Government, they are appointed by the autonomous communities. Without prejudice to the fact that this gentleman is not accused - as you say - but that he is about to know whether the National Court is going to quote him as an investigator to declare, I would like to make it clear to him that the position of the People's Party Government in the case of 3% is well known. We have denounced it, we have asked for it to be investigated and of course we have highlighted the indignity of practices that, as you say, represent the worst of politics. Thirdly, we are applying Article 155 on a transitional and exceptional basis and we are doing so in order to restore legality to Catalonia and to ensure the provision of public services, which we have achieved. So questions of a different order belong to the next Government of the Generalitat. And finally, this issue ceases to have effect from the moment Mr Cambra himself has already announced his resignation to the President of Ports of the State and to the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority at the same time as the Government is formed in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u96	I have not been able to hear him very well, but I think he said that Mr Sixte Cambra is not accused, with which all the news about it would be wrong. This compromises, Minister. We are in a formal session of control of the Government at the Congress of the Deputies of Spain. You say Mr Sixte Cambra is not charged. All right, we'll talk about it again. Indeed, this gentleman said in his day that he would resign as soon as there was a new government in Catalonia. I know that you in Catalonia want to take on the minimum responsibilities, but a Catalan Government at the moment does, it is the Government of Spain. And forgive me, but it's not Mr. Cambra's business anymore, it's that Mr. Cambra is the friend and trusted man of Jordi Pujol and Artur Mas, the man who within that group took charge of maintaining the presence of Convergence in the Olympic Games and in the Barcelona Football Club. It is an integral part - and that is why he was appointed to that post - of the great rotten, corrupt and criminal fabric of Convergence. Minister, you take on a very serious responsibility by leaving responsibilities in this and in many other things in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Girauta. You can't be and not be something at the same time and under the same look. I wonder why Citizens, who, for example, have representation on the General Council of the Fira de Barcelona, did not request the resignation of the Director General, who is in exactly the same judicial situation as Mr Cambra. It is a rhetorical question but it is that you have in one hand the bread and in the other you show the stone. They come here - and it is the umpteenth, as the President of the Government has said - to stand up against the Government of Spain rather than stand up, together with us, against separatist independence. It's the big difference between you and us. You, who have not moved a finger, not a single finger, to try to form a government in Catalonia, attack on a day like today a government that is going to meet in a few minutes on an extraordinary council precisely to prevent Mr Puigdemont from being invested. This is the policy of the gesture that can give you a good headline, as I have just said, in front of those who, with responsibility, will take one more step to defeat those who want to break Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT ARE THE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF THE SAFE MADRID-BARAJAS AMOBILITY PLAN? [[File number 180/00627]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u100	Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a few weeks ago he presented the Real Estate Plan of Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport, a plan that is articulated around a reference airport, which is among the fifty best in the world and in the top ten of the Europeans, which circulates almost 54 million passengers and which is leader in the transport of air cargo; an airport that is also located in an unbeatable location next to the main economic activity corridors of our country, which has good connections with the capital of Spain and potential to become the bridge between Latin America and Asia. It is a very ambitious plan, Minister, which, taking advantage of these great potentialities, can be a key element for the future growth and development of the economy and work, both regional and national. For this it seems that this plan will put on the table floor equivalent to ten times the Park of El Retiro and four times the Northern District, with a public-private investment of more than 3000 million euros in the next forty years; even there are already operators, like Iberia or Merlin Properties, who have already said they want to be there. It is a plan that, as we have known by the media, is articulated around three axes that can turn, through its development, Barajas, Madrid and Spain into a world reference of logistic pole, relying on the privileged situation of those lands that they seem to want to develop, on the importance that this activity already has at the airport and of course in the quality of the services it provides; also as a global business hub, positioning itself as the main pole of attraction for the establishment of corporate headquarters and of different companies and of course for the improvement of the services of the passengers. These are the axes that intend to turn this area into a world-class logistics hub, a hub that attracts companies related to aeronautical activity as well as other high-value-added companies. It is a plan, Minister, which seems to us very ambitious and which my People's Parliamentary Group considers to value the high quality of Spanish infrastructure, the large companies in our country, the ability to enhance in the Community of Madrid an aerospace cluster and of course the great opportunities of our nation to be a pole of foreign investment. Minister, we have known all this through the media because of the positive impact we believe it will have for Madrid and Spain. However, what are the strategic objectives pursued by the Government in implementing this plan? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u102	Thank you very much, Mr González. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u103	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. González. Indeed, the main objective of the two real estate plans, because it would have to be added that of El Prat, is to put into value the underutilized land and available spaces, unused, in order to give these airports an important role within the economic development of our country. In the case of Madrid airport, there is a double objective, thanks to the special location and the large volume of land you have, as you have pointed out: to build a new urban development, sustainable and innovative and, secondly, to generate a pole of attraction for Spanish activity. About 920 hectares of land, with a commercialisation of 2.7 million square meters, we are probably facing the biggest urban development project in Europe, with diversification as a sign of identity, with a total investment of 3000 million euros of public-private collaboration and with an environmentally sustainable design, since a development of 140 hectares of green spaces will also be proposed. The main thrust of this action is, firstly, to create the logistic node; secondly, to establish in Barajas a global business hub, and, thirdly, to provide a better service to the passenger. This includes four types of land: the logistics pole, the airport city, the new aeronautical activities and the one that will generate leisure centres and commercial activities. It is a realistic proposal, it is a flexible proposal in terms of urban development, which is currently, as you have pointed out, with the enormous interest of many multinational companies. I would like to take advantage of the question you ask me to give you an important announcement, and it is the decision, which has already been made, to start the work so that the corporate offices of AENA and Enaire will raise their great center in the plan of Barajas. We have already started the procedures for the recruitment of what has to be the service that generates the new corporate structure responsible for urban development and that will begin to develop in the year 2020 to turn Barajas into the largest logistic node in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WILL YOU FOLLOW SPAIN KEEPING YOUR POSITION NOT TO FORM PART OF THE EUROPEAN PATENT LABOUR SYSTEM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00614]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u105	Question to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u106	Thank you, President. Minister, patent is equal to innovation, equal to development, equal to progress, a term of course recurring in the discourse of both the political class and the scientific community and also of business, and it is that the relationship of patents with the knowledge-based economy makes it possible to propose initiatives for their promotion and for them to have an impact on the development of the economic competitiveness of a country, since the evolution of countries towards a stronger intellectual and industrial property rights system goes in parallel with their evolution in economic development. We are in a knowledge economy, with many intangible concepts and in this sense knowing who is who with a solid intellectual and industrial property system is more than necessary. In this context, the European patent with unitary effect is born with the objective that Europe competes as a single entity on the international markets within the European strategy called the Innovation Union by 2020, which will entail a reduction in the costs of obtaining it, will facilitate the settlement of disputes and give greater legal certainty to users and users, and it is that with a single registration it will be possible to protect innovation in all the countries that join the system without having to make a new application with their respective translations in each of the countries, and in addition it will have its own jurisdiction before the Unified Patent Court, which confers uniform protection. The Government's position so far not to adhere to this system of unitary patent, basically by the language system, for linguistic reasons, in our view does not make much sense, since the linguistic prejudice that you are talking about is now being done by Spanish companies, because if you want to register a patent through the European Patent Office you must use the existing official languages, among which there is no Spanish. In addition, the new system will also have a number of aids to compensate for these translation costs. We believe that where the change in the language system should have been promoted, it is not within the framework of the European patent, but within the framework of the Convention on the Grant of Patents of 1973. On the other hand, you are talking about the single market law to avoid duplication and administrative obstacles, you have pushed it in this Congress and it is in force, ultimately to standardise rules, but then, when others try to standardise rules, you do not agree, which seems to be a contradiction, because what you are ultimately pushing is the coexistence of two patent systems or two processes, one for the Spanish market and the other for the European market, rather than a harmonisation at European level of the patent system. That is why we are asking whether Spain will continue to maintain its position of not being part of this European unitary patent system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Minister. THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA : Thank you, Your Honor. [[Nadal Belda]] Thank you, President. I agree with you. Spain must innovate and the patent is a recognition of industrial innovation. There are other forms of recognition of innovation. We are talking about a strengthened cooperation procedure, that is, it is not a European harmonisation in all countries, but a voluntary accession for those countries that want to have this type of unified system, and more than half of the Member States have joined, which means that the other half does not see the same advantages. At the moment we have a complex procedural issue, so that a process that has been trying to move forward for more than a decade is now at a standstill for two reasons: firstly, because one of the three countries that have to ratify mandatory, because of its number of patents, which is Germany, has submitted to its Constitutional Court for consultation, so that until the German Constitutional Court gives an opinion we will not be able to know whether or not the procedure will exist; secondly, another of the countries that have to ratify, which is the United Kingdom, is in the process of leaving and, therefore, since it is a strengthened cooperation procedure, we do not know what is going on with a country that is going out, which is part of that enhanced cooperation procedure and is also one that has to be ratified mandatory. Look at the situation of this procedure right now. From there, there are advantages, but also serious drawbacks, and I think that requires reflection. Firstly, a Spanish company can go to this procedure even if Spain is not part of the enhanced cooperation. That doesn't stop him. On the other hand, if Spain adheres to any patent that is not written in Spanish is valid here, so companies that want to defend or know if they are infringing a patent have to make an effort, especially SMEs. If they have to argue, they have to do so in a European court, not in a Spanish court, which for a SME is tremendously expensive. Apart from that, there is what you have said about the language regime, it is true. But, man, it is somewhat contradictory for the United Nations to recognize Spanish as an official language for the World Intellectual Property Office, also the European Union for intellectual property and not for patents. It is somewhat contradictory, I think that in this case we have a situation of devalued language which is valid at international level for this type of element and is not being valid at European level or is not being considered at European level. It is important that we think of advantages and disadvantages, but above all it is something that is not understood. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO RESPOND TO THE APPLICATIONS OF 1 MAY FEMINIST? [[File number 180/00611]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u109	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u110	How will the government respond to the demands of May 1st feminist?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u112	Thank you, President. Your Honor, from this government we work 365 days a year so that all women can build the life project that each of us chooses on freedom and with equal opportunities and so that no woman is a victim of violence just because we are women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u114	Minister, this May 1st has been a feminist May 1st who shouted that equality is not just a matter of ethics, it is an economic issue because today being a woman is the main cause of poverty. Already on March 8th we went out into the street for millions, minister. Their budgets, moreover, today do not even reflect their own commitments. Where are the 200 million of the Pact against Macho Violence? Look, without the necessary resources your budgets are absolutely complicit in suffering. They deny the aid to hundreds of abused women who die murdered at the hands of men, two more in the last few days. We went out recently, too, to embrace our sisters and shout that we are not alone before a patriarchal justice that leaves us absolutely unprotected. Tell me, minister, how many more times do we have to get women out of this country on the street for this government to listen to feminist demands? In Spain, we do not have equal pay for equal work; his Government's reforms have left us much more unequal and much poorer than we already were; the worst places in the labour hierarchy are women: outsourcing, wage gap; almost 80% of contracts signed by women are temporary and 72% of part-days are women. Your colleague Báñez says there are more women working than ever before, and that's an insult. In any case, what we have is more women contributing but work we have worked all our lives; free, that's right, and invisible and unprotected. That's thanks to your Government too, Minister. We charge less because they assume that our place is home and justify much lower wages because they consider us a supplement to the husband or father. That's what it explains. Therefore, your labor reform, minister, is deeply macho because with the instability that it provides us and the low wages invite us to stay at home ironing rupita, which is what you would prefer. Its reforms and also its cuts because its Government is in debt to the women of this country. We are the ones who have endured behind our backs the public services that you have cut. We don't ask for anything that doesn't belong to us, just what's ours. The feminist revolution today is at the head of the democratisation movement in Spain and they will not be able to cross hands, as they often do, and wait for the storm to pass. Get out of the burrow where they are installed and already respond to the demands of the feminist movement, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u116	Thank you, President. Your Honor, from the Spanish Government we encourage more women to work. Today, thanks to the Government of the People's Party there are 8.5 million women working in Spain, it is the highest figure in history. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the government of the People's Party we have narrowed the wage gap, we do not settle but we have narrowed it by 4 points and we are below the European average. We have increased in budgets by 56% the Program to help women who are in a situation of special difficulty with personalized itineraries and accompanying measures to find work. We are also working to eliminate stereotypes that hinder equal opportunities and to make more women referent visible. We have incorporated two new programmes to eliminate stereotypes in the technical professions, i.e. to eliminate the digital divide. We have increased aid to small and medium-sized enterprises by 59% to implement equality plans. It has been a People's Party government that is working with companies to use the anonymous curriculum as an instrument to help us eliminate biases in staff selection processes. It has been a People's Party government that has wanted to move forward in conciliation and co-responsibility in this society of shared roles. It has been a People's Party government that has put in this budget a new tax deduction of 1000 euros per year to help families with their children's childcare costs. It was this government of the People's Party that put in these budgets the fifth week of paternity leave for the men of this country. It has also been this Government of the People's Party that has put a maternity supplement to working women when they retire, thus narrowing the pension gap. It has been a People's Party government that has led along with all political parties and society to reach a State Pact in the fight against gender-based violence and we have kept the pact in these budgets. What is happening in Spain and throughout the world is probably the most important social change in the 21st century. The worst thing that can happen to this social transformation, which is a transformation of all, is that you intend to take it. Equality is everyone's heritage. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT MARTA SORLI FRESQUET, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE MINISTER JUSTIFY THAT THE DRAFT PGE 2018 DOES NOT INCLUDE THE 120 MILLION EUROS OF TRANSFER TO THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTANCES COMMITTED IN THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE? [[File number 180/00612]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u118	Question by Mrs Marta Sorlí Fresquet from the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. How does the minister justify that the draft State General Budgets do not include the 120 million transfers to autonomous communities and municipalities committed to the State Pact against Gender Violence?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u121	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are a Government committed to this pact and to the struggle to eradicate violence in Spain. No government had allocated EUR 408 million in budgets to end this scourge. In the General Budgets of the State there is an increase of 80 million euros in compliance with the pact. The budget is the increase for the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, increasing the budget by 4 points above the 20 per cent set out in the State Pact. The budget includes an increase of €42 billion to the financing of the autonomous communities so that they have sufficient resources and credits to comply with the pact. I am convinced that the Government of Spain, autonomous communities and society will continue to work together, as we have done in the past forty years, in the fight against gender-based violence in our society. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Sorlí.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u123	Madam Minister, the state pact wants to eradicate violence against women by working to eliminate machismo and for that reason we put into that state pact a commitment of 200 million euros per year within the general budgets of the state, not with funding, within the general budgets of the state. Minister, machismo is a thousand women murdered at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. Machismo is also that if your neighbor or co-worker attacks you it is not considered gender-based violence. Machism is that Agramunt, Senator of the PP, says that doing those things, referring to accepting bribes by prostitution of women, I wish he could do it. Machism is punishing a civilian guard for wanting to maintain protection for a woman under threat. Machism is to have judges who see joy and joy in a multiple rape. Machismo are advertisements of prostitution, women to 100 euros, in any newspaper. Machismo is that there is no money for equality and yes for defense. Machismo is that the president of the government doesn't want to get into those things of the pay gap. Machism is that there is no sex education that teaches that sex is consensual, not consensual. Machismo is that in the reform of the Penal Code we women are invited. Machismo is that we take four years without transposing the Istanbul Convention into Spanish law. Machismo is six months without applying the state pact. Machismo is that the General Budgets of the State leave out 120 million euros that you committed to transfer to the autonomous communities and the municipalities. So they can count us a thousand milongas but in these General State Budgets they had the opportunity to comply with the State Pact and decide whether they complied with the State Pact or not, decide whether they were with women or against us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u125	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is useless to try to divide us into society. Society, government, autonomous communities, political groups, we are determined to work together to combat gender-based violence. The fight against gender-based violence is not a gender war, it is not a women's war against women or a women's war against men and it is not a war only of women who suffer gender-based violence, but we have to work together!, men and women of this country, of the different ideologies, to eradicate this scourge in this society, and that is why the Government of Spain, as long as we have ruled at all three levels of government, we have always demonstrated and worked and are committed to the eradication of gender-based violence. And again I say to you: the general budget of the State perfectly fulfils the fulfillment of the increase of the 80 million, the increase of more than four points in the delegation of the Government that establishes the pact of State and fulfills the general budget of the State. Also within the general budget of the State is the increase of autonomous financing by more than 4200 million euros. Therefore the budget of the Government of Spain says yes! to the fight against gender-based violence, he says yes! the state pact. It will be you who will perhaps say no! to this budget, the most social and the highest budget in history in the fight against gender-based violence. What are you going to tell the victims when you say no to this budget? The People's Party will always stand by each and every one of the victims of gender-based violence and any kind of violence because we have always been and have always been our commitment. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA DOLORES MARCOS MIYANO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT FINALITY DOES THE AMENDMENT OF THE SOCIETY TAX LAW CONCERNED IN THE 2018 DRAFT GENERAL BUDGETS FOR THE ASSISTANCE OF 0.7% OF THE RECOVERY OF TAXES TO ACTIVITIES FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION AND THE THIRD AREA OF STATE? [[File number 180/00626]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u127	Question by María Dolores Marcos Moyano, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the third sector, together with volunteering, is a key player in the development of our country, an important channel for resolving the demands and initiatives of a large part of civil society. Its importance is marked by the large number of organizations - 30,000 - that integrate it and that care for people who for various reasons are excluded at the risk of exclusion, from women, homeless people, young people, children, people with drug addictions, elderly people, victims of trafficking, etc. Thirty-seven per cent of these entities are dedicated to the care of persons with disabilities and 41 per cent to families. Also for the social investment they channel, the number of beneficiaries and partners they care for; and, of course, the employment they generate, which reaches 645,000 people with an important emphasis on women's employment, since for every man there are four women working in the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, when the People's Party came to the government the viability of the third sector was seriously compromised, so the government put in place numerous measures to ensure the sustainability of the third sector, such as the payment of overdue invoices from the autonomous administrations to these entities, more than €3 billion, through autonomous liquidity funds and the payment plan to suppliers. However, it is necessary to continue to implement measures to ensure the survival and work of these entities. We would like you to explain to us, Minister, what is the purpose of the amendment of the Company Tax Act envisaged in the draft State General Budgets for 2018 for the allocation of 0.7 of the tax collection to activities for social inclusion and the third sector at the national level. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u130	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in the 1980s, the 0.7% IRPF allocation programme for social activities launched one of our country's most important social programmes to support actions aimed at combating social exclusion and promoting equality. It has made it possible to build a large and vertebrate network of social entities with a great territorial integration, which do a very important work of social cohesion, has helped every year more than seven million Spaniards and has launched, for the first time, an instrument of fiscal democracy that allows all Spaniards to decide anonymously and in solidarity if they want 0.7% of their taxes to be devoted to social actions. The Spanish Government has therefore presented the most important social budget for this democracy a few weeks ago. This government is a people's government, it is a social government that thinks of each and every one of the people and therefore within the budget we have devoted 0.7 per cent of the corporation tax to social activities. It is going to be one of the programs with the greatest social impact in Spain in the coming years, and we want to double it so that also companies - not only people through the IRPF - can incorporate 0.7% of their taxes into this social program. Since we are now at the time of the declaration of the rent, I encourage all Spaniards to put the equis in favor of 0.7% in the IRPF. If we all put the 0.7% equities of the IRPF and if we approve the budget, which I am convinced we will do, next year, when all companies can put the equities in the corporation tax, we will be talking about a €700 million program for social aid, the largest program to help all Spaniards, and this is done by a People's Party government. Because we are very clear in the People's Party that the real social engine of our country is people, families and the economic fabric. That is why we believe in a strong, solidarity-based civil society that enlarges us as a country, and that is why we are so convinced that the 0.7% allocation of corporation tax to social activities will be one of the programs with the greatest social impact that will reach all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA OF THE ROCIO DE FRUTO MADRAZO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT ACCEPTABLE TO RECOVER THE BENEFITS FOR UNEMPLOYMENT WHEN THE ECONOMY IS GROWING? [[File number 180/00618]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u132	Question addressed to the Minister for Employment and Social Security of Mrs María del Rocío de Frutos Madrazo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the Government consider it acceptable to cut unemployment benefits when the economy is now growing?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u134	Thank you, Mrs. De Frutos. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, thank you for your question. You know very well that the best protection is job creation, and Spain today can say, thanks to the collective effort of society, which has created five hundred thousand jobs every year in the last four years. Furthermore, today, Europe Day, I can tell you that Spain leads job creation throughout the European Union, which is good news to encourage us to continue working in the right direction. This job creation makes it possible today to say that every year the unemployment rate in our country has fallen by almost 10 points since we arrived at the Government, and also, Your Honor, that the rate of long-term unemployment since the recovery has been halved, which encourages us to continue working together. This has to do with the commitment of this Government, which has pledged that there will be better activation policies for employment that will improve the employability of the unemployed and that can be incorporated more quickly into the labour market, so that today we have an investment for the protection and improvement of activation of the unemployed an 8% higher than when we arrived at the Government in 2011. And I tell you more, we have strengthened unemployment protection not only by allocating more than EUR 218.4 billion since 2012 to unemployment protection programmes, but also by maintaining the RAI and improving the preparation programme and even by launching a special activation programme with the social partners. In addition, with a 7% drop in unemployment last year, the same level of protection is maintained in the budgets for 2018. Therefore, we continue to work and I encourage you to join in this help to the unemployed so that they will soon find employment, which is the great national priority for all. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. De Frutos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u137	Stop justifying everything by creating temporary, partial and low-wage jobs; first, because we don't ask you about it, and second, because it makes it worse for us. The economy is growing and the unemployed are becoming poorer. Its growth forecasts I think are about 3%, but the coverage rate falls, the amount of the average benefit falls, the unemployment benefit budget falls, and it does not even spend what is collected by quotas. And as a colophon, instead of clarifying subsidies, they take advantage of the Constitutional Court's ruling for further cuts. Almost 3 million unemployed - three out of four - do not receive any type of benefit, grant or aid, and those who receive it are receiving less than in 2010, in particular EUR 2758 less than average per year. All your reforms - you know because you've been in them - have despised unemployed people. They have cut the unemployment benefit, they have eliminated access to the allowance for over fifty-two years old, they have eliminated the special allowance for over forty-five years old, they have mismanaged the Preparation, the RAI and the PAE and they have systematically reduced - you know - the allocations for the benefit of the unemployed: for 2018 - I say so too - 17,702 million euros, 4% less than in 2017, 12% less than in 2016 and 40% less than in 2011, and this - what we are surprised - despite the fact that the forecast of income for unemployment quotas is 20,461 million euros; that is, there are 3000 million euros that are collected for this contingency and that you do not invest. In addition, we are now coming up with an amendment to create an extraordinary subsidy, demonstrating once again their incompetence to protect the long-term unemployed. They want to impose a solution rejected by the autonomous communities and social actors and continue to cut the length of programmes - that is the reality - and access requirements. Minister, do you have solutions beyond what's going on in your head to your Secretary of State for Communication when you say that pensioners deserve a good cut in sleeves? Do you have solutions that change the course, clearly insolidary and wrong, of this tragic summary of your management in the unemployment benefit? Are you going to tell us how you are going to reverse - this yes - those less and worse benefits? Why aren't they even able to invest what... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u138	Thank you, Mrs. De Frutos. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. The coverage rate in the last year has risen by two points and we have proposed a new supplementary income of unemployment to improve the protection of the unemployed for the future to the autonomous communities and social partners and we continue to work for consensus. In the meantime, no stoppage in this country is going to be left out thanks to the amendments that this Government has tabled in the budget, because we want to have a better protection system than before the crisis, we want to protect especially the most vulnerable, long-term stoppages, over forty-five years of family responsibilities, and we also want to have the Socialist Party there. Summaries...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u141	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, concerning the position of the Government with regard to the pending transfers in the field of social security concerning the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State and the management of the economic system of social security. For her defence, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Egun on. I would like to begin by congratulating the pensioners who, as they did when they were young, were fighting and winning many of the rights that we still have, even though they have fallen far behind in social matters, have come out again to demand what is right for them and have again shown that fighting for what is right for them bears fruit. And it is that this generation that has struggled so much has seen how after long years of work, when it was time to receive social recognition for what has been achieved and achieved, far from meeting with a state that shields and respects its rights over more or less favorable circumstances, it faces a state that takes advantage of pensions to deal with the problems that from the public and private spheres others have generated. A State that has made reforms since 2011 aimed at spending less on pensions, increasing the retirement age, the years to be calculated or introducing a sustainability index that ultimately means that the more we live, the poorer we will be; an index that will delay its implementation but that there is no will to make it disappear and that affects us all, not just the current pensions. In the same year, 2011, it was established that the percentage to be applied to widowhood pensions would rise from 52 per cent to 60 per cent, but has not yet been applied. It seems that the need to approve the budgets will change the position of the PP; another thing will be to comply with the agreed, which, as on many other occasions, runs the risk of being forgotten or becoming again, in the future, in terms of negotiation. And it is that the rise of pensions on the basis of the CPI is an important claim. Pensioners cannot continue to accumulate loss of purchasing power, which is already estimated at more than 6 per cent in recent years. That is why the CPI is an essential measure, but even if the CPI is established in the future as a benchmark rather than only two years, as is intended in these budgets, this will not mean the dignity of pensions; it is not the solution to the main problems. We will continue to have more than 50% of pensioners earning less than 800 euros, and so we cannot meet the minimum vital needs, and less lead a dignified life. It will continue to be women, those who for decades assumed the full weight of family care, of raising children, those who have the least resources. Of 35 per cent of people below the poverty line, more than a quarter, mostly women, do not exceed €335 per month. At Euskal Herria Bildu we are convinced that the debate is not whether there is money or not, because although the current situation originates in the wrong employment policies, in which the Reserve Fund money is allocated to issues other than pension payments, the debate is whether we consider that in order to have a cohesive society, pensioners have to have a decent pension, to what extent must the minimum to do so, to calculate the cost of it and to look for the reforms to be carried out to guarantee it. And pensions are one of the main mechanisms for poverty prevention. To the extent that they are an essential right and an essential public service, we do not understand that they are subject to economic conjuncture, and we are aware that the system, as we have known, will not be viable in the long term if, in addition to making sound employment policies, creating decent jobs, we do not implement other measures. We do not believe that encouraging people to make private pension plans is the way forward, it can be the way forward for those who are betting on fattening the business of the private sector, which today manages more than 110 billion dollars a year in pension plans throughout the state, but not for those who think that in order for that route to be truly voluntary and not forced by the situation the public system has to be solid and guaranteed. Nor do we understand that it is the only public service that is not partly financed through budgets, or that does not address a profound tax reform that will allow sufficient income to guarantee pensions. All these issues concern us, as we find it worrying that pensions have become a matter of negotiation, because we understand that rights are guaranteed, not traded with them. That is why we believe that the system needs a new social and political agreement that addresses current problems and seeks solutions for the future, with the clear objective of guaranteeing decent pensions. Nor will your ladies and gentlemen be surprised if I tell you that Euskal Herria Bildu aspires to form a pension system of his own for Euskal Herria, for which we are in favour of opening a deep debate with the participation of pensioners, trade unions, experts and political representatives with a view to shaping that system of his own; a system of his own that will be viable if the necessary mechanisms are established for this. Don't tell me that currently the expenses are higher than the income, that's kind of like staying the way we are, putting patches and, if they come wrong, cutting into pensions. That's not our bet. Nor do we approach this debate with a closed scheme, we are open to debate, discussion, contrasting from different points of view, with a clear premise, in which I insist, that the public system be solid and that it guarantee decent pensions. We are betting on a system that could be structured on the basis of parameters similar to those of the countries in our environment, basically a system of allocation for contributory pensions, tax revenues for non-contributory and also flexible use of budgets in order to be able to compensate or correct financial misadjustments in the contributory part. The viability of this system is closely linked to active and effective employment policies, decent working conditions and a fair and equitable tax model that provides us with sufficient economic resources to maintain the public pension system. Therefore, the Government does not have the temptation to tell me which situation we are starting from, as we know it perfectly well, the important thing is whether we are prepared to reform the current system. I mention the issue because I know that this is often one of the most used arguments to deny the desirability of transferring social security competence, which is the reason for my questioning, and that it is done on the basis of a limited calculation of contributory pension costs versus contribution income in the current circumstances and, given the current negative balance of the system, it is concluded that it is not viable, and thus seems to do us a favour by not materializing the transfer. This is done from an interested perspective, since the potentialities of regulatory and system design changes that would involve the transfer are not included. Social security as a whole is not considered, including unemployment expenditure, whose incidence is lower than that of the State. Nor does it take into account the lower incidence of unemployment or the higher average wage than, combined with all labour relations, inciting them to more employment and more decent wages, would mean greater contributions and possibilities for the provision of social benefits. These factors, together with the fiscal capacity we have, would make a system of our own viable as long as funding, as I have already mentioned, can be complemented through budgets. What is not viable and what does not secure our pensions is the current Spanish system. We know that the mere transfer of the powers contained in the Statute and in the Improvement for the Autonomous Community and Nafarroa will not allow us to do all this and that we will have to achieve greater levels of sovereignty, since it does not in itself allow us to decide the conditions of access to pensions or the current amount or update, but we are sure that management will improve, making this more agile and with greater control and effectiveness. In addition, it would involve implementing the mechanisms for managing the future system of its own. In any case, if the transfer takes place, it would be no concession but a capacity recognized by the Statute and the Improvement, and our demand responds to the demand, widely supported in the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa, to end the non-compliance by the different Spanish governments, which is already more than thirty years long. There's nothing to stop it, it's more, not doing it means continuing to violate the law. It is therefore a matter of political will. This is the question we ask the Government to explain its position on the outstanding transfers in the field of social security, which relate to the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State, as well as the management of the economic system of social security. These are the social security competences recognised by the Gernika Statute and the Improvement using virtually the same terms, in one Article 18 and in the other Article 54. That is why I am asking the Government whether it will continue to refuse to develop the Statute and the Improvement, whether it will continue to use as a currency of exchange something that must be complied with by keeping that letter for when parliamentary arithmetic is not favourable to it, and whether it will continue to subject both communities to intervened and only developed statutes on the basis of their own needs. I say this because there are still twenty-five transfers pending in the case of Navarro, thirty-seven in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community and in recent years only transfers have been made when there has been a need on the part of the Government either for the investiture or for the approval of budgets. I think it is clear how a law of compulsory compliance has been used, since you often repeat it here to the point of satiety, which is only fulfilled when the government in charge needs it. As I said, there have been innumerable pronouncements in the various institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and of Nafarroa on this. The Basque Parliament itself, on very recent dates, has spoken out and denounced the unilateral non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika for thirty-nine years. By the way, all the parties, except the People's Party, have denounced it and are demanding its implementation, with which I understand that we have the view that we have on the subject of pensions, on the agreements reached or on how the future pension system is shaped, I believe that all the forces represented in the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa have shown that we agree that the existing legislation has to be complied with. Some of us want to overcome it, but we are on the basis that we do not give up what we have and ask the Government to do so in some way. That is why, and I conclude with this, my specific question is whether the Government will continue to listen deafly to its obligations for party interests or, finally, it will leave that way of acting and it will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. The next item is the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u144	Thank you, President. Madam Member, thank you for the tone of your speech and for the opportunity you have given me to highlight once again in this House the pension system that our country has, a public system of solidarity sharing which is the pride of all Spaniards and which is also one of the best pension systems in Europe. You know why? Thanks to the fact that it is a system of all, the foundation of which is that unique Social Security box that we all share. The social security model that we have is a great network of solidarity and the best system of income compensation that our country has today; a network of solidarity composed of young and older people, by people who work in more profitable productive sectors and others who do so in sectors with lower productivity, by territories, by generations, by people who are active and by others who are unemployed. This is the great network of solidarity of the Spaniards, and the guarantee that this system and network of solidarity will continue to work is that we continue to have economic growth in Spain, quality jobs and that we will be able to work to maintain this great social pact of democracy, the Toledo Pact, which works for the present and future sustainability of our pension model and so that every day we have better pensions in our country. If there is a moment in the recent history of Spain in which we have seen the quality of our pension model has been when we have had to face the most important economic crisis in our history, that of the last ten years. Spain is emerging from that crisis and is starting a recovery with a pension system that pays more and more pensions than before the crisis. Countries in our environment that experienced a very similar crisis in 2011 had to make drastic decisions regarding pensions, reducing them by 15 to 40%. Spain was able to get out of the crisis and start a recovery by protecting our pension system and maintaining our welfare system, which has been possible thanks to the commitment of Spanish society and also, believe me, to the decision of this government to move forward by maintaining the pension system in Spain. And if this has been so in Spain, believe me that it has also been especially important in the Basque Country. Today, in the Basque Country, 8.8% more pensions are paid to 8.6% more pensioners, with an average of 16% higher since the economic crisis. Pensioners in the Basque Country today receive the highest pensions throughout the country. The average retirement pension is 1335 euros, 23.62% higher than the national average and almost 50% higher than the average pension of Extremadura. The average pension of the system - the previous one is the average retirement pension - in the Basque Country is 1161 euros, 24% higher than the national average. That has been paid every month thanks to this solidarity system, which has sent, together with the solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards, more than 12,300 million euros since 2012 to pay the pensions of all the pensioners who live in the Basque Country on time, and that is a pride for all the Spaniards because we want to protect our elders, live where they live, with this public system and solidarity of pensions. In relative terms, the difference between the collection of contributions and financial contributions is 30 per cent in the Basque Country. The average of the autonomous communities that also had deficits in recent years due to the crisis, between collection and benefits, is 18 per cent. Therefore, the system's solidarity effort with the Basque Country is significantly greater and that for us is the justice, equity and solidarity of our system. In 2018, the expected contribution deficit will be 2751 million euros in the Basque Country and the non-contributory deficit of 523 euros, so this year there will be a pension deficit of 3274 million euros in the Basque Country, which will be paid with the solidarity of the whole system. In addition, looking to the future, Your Honor, when you were talking about the future of pensioners and social security in the Basque Country, you have to take one thing into account, and it is that the percentage distribution by age of participants in your land shows a greater aging than the rest of the national average, because it accumulates 33.5% of the group of workers over fifty years of age, 3.5 points above the national average. This will also affect a future increase in short-term pensions. Therefore, the guarantee that pensioners living in the Basque Country continue to receive their pensions on time, and also better pensions each year, remains, without a doubt, the single social security fund. Otherwise, a system of its own, believe me, would be inviable. You told me about the financial economic management of the social security system. It is a State competence, as the Spanish Constitution clearly states in article 149.1.17.a If this competition were to be transferred, it would mean that the State renounces the obligation to be the manager of that single box throughout Spain, and believe me, that single box, which is the heart of the system, will not break it this government, because it would harm, precisely, the pensioners of the Basque Country. Moreover, you know very well - even if you ask - that the doctrine laid down by the Constitutional Court clearly states that the special character of the unity of the Spanish social security system and its public nature is a unique and unitary social security system for all citizens. According to the constitutional doctrine, the separate mention that article 141.1.17(a) of the Constitution carries out the economic system of social security as the exclusive function of the State seeks to ensure the unity of the social security system; see not only the unit of legal regulation, but also the unit of economic management. In this regard, Judgement 146/1992 of 16 October, which did not allow an autonomous community, in this case Galicia, to provide subsidies to social security contributions for being part of that economic regime, is well known. The system is therefore armored, avoiding its exposure to territorial policies affecting that whole and that single Social Security box. Therefore, the management and control of the contribution, the collection of contributions and other financing resources of the system are not outside the economic system of Social Security. [[The lady]] Nor are the proceedings, for example, of postponements, fractionation of social security payments or instrumental acts, including the obligation to contribute to social security, such as registration of enterprises and membership, high and low rates of workers or the sanctioning power on matters relating to that economic regime. Your Honor, I invite you to work together within the unique framework that we have in this House, which is the Toledo Pact. Spain is a great country that has managed to get out of a crisis by maintaining its welfare system, paying its pensions on time, higher each year, which we have been able to afford in a very difficult situation for the entire national economy. And this year we continue to do so, Your Honor, with a budget that is good for pensioners throughout Spain and that will also improve the lives of pensioners living in the Basque Country, because, as a general rule, pensions will rise by 1.6%; minimum and non-contributory pensions will rise by 3% and widow's pensions by 7.6%, and we will continue to work to reduce this gender gap in pensions with this maternity supplement that has been in place since 2016, which allows 385 000 women who have retired since 2016 in Spain to cover up to 15% more of the pension due to the number of children they contributed to society while they were working. We therefore improved and narrowed the gender gap in pensions by 14 per cent with this measure promoted by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. By the way, in the Basque Country 21,000 women have retired with up to 15% more for this maternity supplement, which is a fight against the gender gap in pensions also in the Basque Country. Ladies and gentlemen, this year, the investment of the State's general budgets in pensions, social investment in the Basque Country, exceeds EUR 164 million. I think it is good news for the Basques and for all Spaniards because we continue to work so that every day in our country we have a safer public pension system and better pensions in the present and in the future. I encourage you to join the work of the Toledo Pact so that we continue to reassure and guarantee our pensioners that there will be pensions today but there will also be pensions, and better, tomorrow with the consensus and help of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, since you mention the agreement on budgets I will talk about it. If you ask me if it's good news that you're up 1.6 on the basis of the CPI instead of 0.25, I'll tell you yes. If you ask me if that's what the pensioners ask on the street, I'll tell you no. In this agreement the interests of the PP and the PNV have been joined but not to respond to the demands of the pensioners, but to put a stop to them, and I will explain myself. The PP was aware - since you mentioned both the Toledo Pact - that the Toledo Pact was going to agree precisely that, that pensions had to be referred to on the basis of the CPI, but not for two years but in the long term. You've wanted to put a stop to that, you've preferred to leave it in two years, we'll see soon, in 2019 or 2023, how things are going for the topic of the sustainability index. Perhaps by then the pensioners have been tired of protesting or the arithmetic allows you to continue cutting pensions. The PNV for its part was upset with the mobilizations because in Euskal Herria, in addition to the IPC, the pensioners ask for a minimum pension of 1080 euros and a system of their own, that is also asked for. They came to ask for it even with more than 71,000 signatures in a popular legislative initiative that came to Parliament and to which the PNV told him no; moreover, on the street, they made him responsible for the rise of 0.25 last year by supporting the 2017 budgets. Thinking that achieving the CPI and distorting the fundamental debate was going to favor your position, saw in the budget debate the opportunity without equal, with which you somehow took the weight of what the Toledo Pact was going to propose to you and tried to distort it and let the PNV sell that to benefit both and, of course, harm the pensioners. This is the way it is done, not as we were told here last week to all the ladies and gentlemen, as if we were faced with the fact that no one else is sensitive to pensioners, that that was done by listening to the people who were mobilizing. I think it has been done for the desire to stop hearing them, for the desire for them to stop being on the streets. But fortunately, even this weekend there have been thousands of people who have gone out because they are aware of the substantive debate and the real substantive debate is another. You can give me here all the macroeconomic data you want and you can tell me that in the Basque Country there are higher pensions. The fact is that there are still 50% of them paying less than 800 euros and the fact is that they are still cheating and they do not match the employment situation, the contribution situation and the wage situation of today, because it is the whole reality that needs to be matched. You tell me about what you will see increased pensions - thanks to what you have included in the budgets - for example women in the Basque Country. Today there are many pensioners, there are many widows who have a supplement in their pensions and, derived from this agreement, nothing is going to rise, not a cent their pension. What they are going to receive, they are going to receive differently the part that comes from the State and the part that is being compensated from the Basque Autonomous Community, but the final amount that they are going to receive is going to remain miserable - not already poor, miserable - because living with less than 800 euros is not possible and even less in some cases below 400 euros, on the basis of the data I have given before. Therefore, we do not sell the bonanzas of an agreement that then in practice to many people in your pocket will not benefit you at all. You mentioned solidarity to me. Pensioners need dignity, not solidarity; they need respect for their rights and for those who have contributed for decades. That's what they need, what they want. You tell me that in our territory there is a greater aging. We're not worried. To the extent that we have instruments to make decisions and to be able to make the necessary reforms and preserve the system of the future, to the extent that those instruments are in our hands, we can do so. But don't cheat on me with the one box, because I'm in favour of breaking it, but I didn't ask you to do that. I have asked him to comply with what the statute and the improvement say, that is, what they collected in the Constitution for some to swallow with the 1978 regime, which was not my formation but that of others, but the fact is that today it is a law of compulsory compliance. I will tell you what the statute says - because virtually the same is said about improvement and the statute -: It is up to the Basque Country to develop legislation and implement the basic legislation of the State in the area of internal health. In the field of social security, the Basque Country is responsible for the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State, with the exceptions it establishes; and, in point (b) it establishes the management of the economic system of social security. I have asked you when the Government will comply with these two points, which are the ones that contain the legislation, which is binding and which also has the majority support of all the political parties represented in my territory, with the exception of the People's Party. Since you talk so often about the law, tell us when you're going to comply. Don't ever tell me about the one box again because it's cheating on me. Be honest, as Posada was in her day, that the development of the statute and that of the Constitution were incompatible. Tell the truth, because you admitted that in those times for other interests, but you have never had a real interest in developing these laws that were adopted in 1978 to establish that regime that we have talked about many times and that I am not going to extend today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u147	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u148	Thank you, President. Madam Member, this party and this government always listen and respect pensioners and they also appreciate the effort they have made to have this country, Spain, which we all enjoy today, and to help their families in difficult times, by contributing with their pension to family income. Hence, from here we also show that infinite respect and gratitude to all the majors of Spain. You have described very well the pension system we have before. It is a public, contributory and supportive system. What does a contributor mean, Your Honor? That we have a pension based on the contributions we have made working throughout our lives, but it is also solidarity, which means that there are people - in our case, in our country, two and a half million people - who have not contributed enough or who have had a very low contribution because of the type of work they have had throughout their lives, and who have a solidarity pension that gives them the Spanish system, something that only exists in four countries of the European Union, and that is also important for us to maintain it. What do you want us to improve that? What do you want the minimum pension in Spain to be higher? It is also a wish shared by all the members of this House - of course, by the People's Party - and that has much to do with the work being done in the Toledo Pact, because obviously in the present, but especially in the future, we will work together to further improve the pension. But we cannot deceive the citizens and we must tell them the truth. Today our country has a strong pension system, for the tranquility of all our pensioners, but we have to tell you that the final guarantee of your pension today and tomorrow's pension remains economic growth, quality employment and pacts. Therefore, let us work to continue to create employment, every day of increasing quality, and also to continue to agree in the Toledo Pact the improvements of the system in the future, because we all owe it to the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is growing up; it is the fastest growing country in the European Union. That creates intense employment, we have seen it in the data of the last month; it has been the best April membership, without Holy Week, of the entire historical series. Indefinite employment is being created intensively. In fact, it is the largest month of indefinite recruitment of all records. And employment is being created with intensity in the groups most affected by the crisis: among young people, who double the capacity to create jobs on the national average; among women - today is good news for all of us that there are more women affiliated to Social Security than ever before, 8,600,000 women - and also self-employment is a reason to continue giving opportunities to people, because the law that we all did last year is bearing fruit and today in the first quarter of the year there are more than 42,200 new self-employed people in the system thanks, among other things, to measures such as the flat rate of 50 euros for self-employed people. What did that do? That Spain today has recovered 75% of the jobs destroyed by the crisis. We still have an important way to go until we reach those 20 million affiliates, which will be the first step in bringing greater stability to our system. That's done two important things. In 2011, when we arrived at the Government, three jobs were destroyed for each new pension. Today, for each new pension, six new jobs are created in Spain, a guarantee of the system, which also has an impact on the income of Social Security. Look at the positive impact. We have had nine consecutive months above the €10 billion in net collection and only in the months we have had in 2018 has 40,551 million euros been collected, 2046 million euros more than last year. Therefore, better employment, more employment and better pay every day is also the guarantee of the system in the short and medium term. The rest, ladies and gentlemen, we must decide together in the Toledo Pact: what pensions we want tomorrow, what sufficiency of our pensions we want for the coming years, but above all we have to protect our model of public social security and distribution and we have to keep that one-size-fits-all box, which is the guarantee that pensions are paid on time every month anywhere in the national territory and that they are also better every year, Your Honor, which is what we have lived in Spain since 2011. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS RELATING TO THE SPANISH POSITION ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION AND THE NEW PLURIARY FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE EU 2021-2027. [[File number 172/000120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u150	We then turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness concerning the Spanish position on strengthening economic and monetary union and the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021-2027. Mr Saura García has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we believe that we are facing a crucial debate for the future of economic and monetary union. Spain is played a lot for a lot of reasons. But we also think that Spain has to put its weight on Europe and play a decisive role because, as I said earlier, we play a lot. Unfortunately, you, Minister, have put forward a proposal which is unambitious, unEuropean and which reduces the approaches that the previous governments have taken in recent years. This is critical primarily because we are facing a crucial moment in our history and, in addition, we are going to live next June an important event, a transcendental summit. But, unfortunately, Mr Rajoy is again not and is not expected at this summit so important for the future of economic and monetary union and for the future of Spain. As I said earlier, it is not a novelty that Mr Rajoy and the Government of Spain are not and are not expected at that summit. With your proposal, Minister, we left behind our partners in southern Europe who are trying to show the Germans and the countries of the north that the rules can be complied with, share risks and also bet on solidarity. But it is also a proposal that is below, which is less ambitious than the Commission's own proposal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we criticise your proposal for three reasons: form, substance and strategy. As for form, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand that such an important, crucial issue, which affects not only the short and medium term but also the long term, has not been brought here, has not been discussed here in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] This seems to us to be very critical and very regrettable, Minister. Today is Europe Day, but from the Socialist Group - a tremendously European group - we believe that every day must be days of Europe and, of course, when we are playing something so important, that debate must take place in the Congress of Deputies. In addition, a tradition is broken, Minister. Europe's issues seek consensus in the Congress of Deputies among the main political forces and this consensus has not been sought in view of what we have ahead in this European debate. [[Applauds]] As far as the fund is concerned, Minister, there is little ambition to bet on fiscal policy. It is important because that also involves a tax policy of the European Union and makes it possible to have a fiscal pillar and its development. But your proposal focuses on the banking union and I recognize you, Minister, that the banking union for Spain is very important, but the key question is: Can the banking union be reached without the fiscal union? This is the key question and history shows, Minister, that it is not. Because when there is a systemic risk, when there is a systemic crisis, a central European fiscal authority is needed to assume and provide certainty and security and to be of last resort. This is very important, and if they go wrong in the future and there is no such authority we will have the problems we have had in the past again. For you in the document, the words European fiscal policy are not there. The words fiscal policy generate urticaria, Minister, the two words together. They're not those two words together, I insist, because I think they generate something more than hives, probably measles. However, at least in the short term there are elements that can lead us to the fiscal union to break that link between sovereign risk and bank risk. For example, bet on a European treasure and a European finance minister. Of that, nothing in the document. On the Rescue Fund, on the MEDE, all the countries and the European Commission itself are talking about transforming the MEDE into a European Monetary Fund; nothing at all in the document. On the safe assets, so important for Spain because if monetary policy changes that will harden and will create problems in the balance sheets of banks - so important for Spain as the Spanish medium-sized bank has difficulties -, nothing at all and besides these safe assets would be the foreground of Eurobonds. Of course, nothing in your Eurobond document. Not at all, because - I insist - that already, measles. On a European unemployment insurance, which is very important because it would help stabilize the European economy in the face of asymmetric shocks and is very important for Spain, nothing in the document. Of course, to provide the European Commission with its own resources through its own taxation, nothing in the document. You speak, Minister, of structural reforms, of many structural reforms, which we think is right, but at no time do you speak of a social pillar, a social policy. Minister, do you want to tell me how the European project will continue to be legitimised without that tax pillar? [[Applauds]] I told him before that without fiscal policy we didn't get to the banking union, but without political union we didn't get to the fiscal union. His document is therefore economic policy, but he lacks economic policy and political economy. That is what the Government document lacks. In view of this very unambitious document, Minister, how is the government going to say anything about the new multiannual financial framework presented by the European Commission? A framework which, in terms of GDP, reduces resources in relation to the previous framework, which, in absolute terms, reduces Community agricultural policy resources by between 13 and 16 % and the cohesion fund, in absolute terms, decreases by 10 %. What will the Government say, if it is very unambitious, in view of the European Commission's lack of ambition in the multiannual framework 2021-2027. Basically, Minister, because the European Commission is also short on the own funds needed to finance this budgetary and fiscal policy. I would say to him at the beginning of my speech that we did not agree and that the document he has submitted was critical for three reasons: for a matter of form - very important to us - for a matter of substance, but also for a strategic issue. What you can tell me is: No, I have put forward a pragmatic document, from my point of view, so that Spain can really influence decision-making. In other words, if the agreement can be between zero and ten, Spain already, with its document, skips a few iterations and goes to synthesis, to five. But this does not apply to Spain, Spain is the third or fourth economy of the European Union, and if Spain goes to five, the agreement may end in three and be much worse for Spanish interests. I tell you more, Minister, to be a real influencer in Europe, to regret in Europe we have to comply with European partners, we have to comply with the tax pact and the tax rules, Minister. You are going to Europe with a budget that you have brought to this House which, from the start, no longer meets the deficit targets for this year and, of course, not for 2019 in the stability programme. We are an economy with the biggest structural deficit in all European economies and this year the structural deficit is going to grow again. But how serious, how we will influence Europe if we do not comply with those tax rules. To sit at the table of the biggest and most influential partners, what Spain has to do is an ambitious proposal, to say what it really thinks, not to be peaceful when it comes to setting its goals, but also to meet the partners. When you meet your partners, you can speak equally to all economies, Germany and northern Europe. From our point of view, this is not what is done with this document; a document that basically makes it less ambitious than the European Commission and leaves our southern partners who are betting on convincing Germany that it is possible to solidarity and comply with tax rules; a document that, of course, has not passed through Parliament. Mr Minister, that the Spanish Parliament has not passed such an important issue that it is going to affect several generations of Spaniards, it seems to us very serious, as it seems to us very serious that Spain does not bet on fiscal union or social legacies, on the social pillar. [[Applauds]] This seems very serious to us because there is no banking union if there is no fiscal union and there is no fiscal union if there is no political union. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u152	Thank you very much. Next, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u153	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this question by wishing the whole House a happy Europe Day which, as you all know, is being celebrated today, 9 May. To our parliamentary groups - and I agree with what has been said - a strong European conviction unites us, so the issues you raise in your question are indeed of great importance to all of us and to the future of Spain. I completely agree with what your honor says. He referred to the document that the ministry had presented a few weeks ago on the issues under discussion at the moment in relation to economic and monetary union. Let me give you some explanations. As you know, the Heads of State and Government identified at the Euro Summit held on 15 December last, a number of points on which the European Union has to work with a deadline in June and which have essentially to do with the so-called banking union. That's the agenda we have right now on the table. That is the agenda we are discussing at the Eurogroup since the summit on 15 December. In particular, at this Euro Summit, President Tusk made a very clear statement on the points to be discussed from December to June, which are several and I will summarise them schematically in three: firstly, to put into operation a support mechanism for the so-called Single Resolution Fund and to deepen the development of the MEDE; secondly, to introduce progressively a Single Deposit Guarantee Fund, usually referred to as EDIS; and finally, to create a stabilisation mechanism for the euro area. President Tusk set these points for discussion at this December summit and expressly mentioned the need to move forward, firstly, in the banking union and, subsequently, to deal with the rest of the points, the importance of which no one denies, but which are - in his words - more difficult to agree on. Therefore, first, discussion on banking union in June; then, we will deal with the rest of the issues that complement economic and monetary union in Europe. Literally, President Tusk said: There is no doubt that the priority is the conclusion of the banking union, which is possible and necessary; if there is no significant progress in this area, it will be very difficult to imagine progress in more ambitious ideas. I close the quotes and close President Tusk's literal quote at the end of the 15 December summit. The Spanish Government has taken this message clearly and has taken a proactive position by putting on the table technically very solid proposals - no one has criticized the technical soundness of the proposals we have put forward - and ambitious ones. In this sense, Your Honor, I radically disagree with your analysis because the level of ambition of our proposals, which require you to read them carefully, I believe that no one has questioned it. These are proposals relating to areas where negotiations are more advanced and where we need to reach agreements in June. In particular, our document proposes the strengthening of economic and monetary union in a number of ways. I apologize to the room because these are technical issues, but I think it is important to explain what we are working on. Firstly, strengthening financial integration. This must be a priority in the short term at least in two ways, firstly to complete the so-called capital market union in order to contribute to an integrated capital market, in particular in funds and in alternative and diversified sources for our companies throughout the European Union; and secondly and most importantly to prioritise the implementation of this Common Deposit Guarantee Fund - the so-called EDIS - as well as a common support mechanism to complete the banking union. On this point, let me stress the importance of this Single Deposit Guarantee Fund - and the single word is key - throughout the European Union. Spain has argued that, as was the case in the 1990s in the Maastricht process, the June summit and subsequently a clear mandate with a concrete, final and irrevocable date for the implementation of this single deposit guarantee system in Europe. This is a clear ambition of the document and I am surprised by the analyses that speak of north and south because, if the discussion is well understood, Spain is clearly at the forefront of ambition in Europe. All this without prejudice to the possibility of creating a transitional period, during which a kind of reinsurance is applied without yet fully sharing the risks. During this transitional period, national financial systems will gradually absorb and provide for dubious claims currently held by bank balances and will gradually pool risks as certain milestones are reached, as was done at Maastricht in the 1990s. Before the full entry into force of this so-called EDIS, the Community institutions will have to carry out a final assessment of the financial institutions to certify that they do not have to provide risks prior to the entry into common of the single European supervisory system. Thus, on the agreed date, which, as I say, would be final and irrevocable, a single European deposit guarantee system would fully enter into force. In parallel with this construction, we propose that a common support mechanism be established to ensure sufficient resources for both the Single Deposit Guarantee Fund, this EDIS and the Single European Resolution Fund. Only with a sufficient back-up mechanism to deal with possible banking crises can we ensure that this instrument has the credibility necessary to permanently break the link between sovereign debt and bank risk. Secondly, Spain proposes proposals to deepen economic integration. With the crisis, we have realized that price stability and the sustainability of national budgets and finances are not enough to ensure financial stability in crisis situations. The accumulation of imbalances can also lead to a very deep fragmentation of monetary union. In order to avoid this, it is essential, Your Honor, that there be adequate coordination of structural reforms, so that they lead to a reduction of differences and a gradual divergence of competitiveness between Member States and that we definitively complete, in what remains to be completed, the elements of the single market, particularly the cross-border barriers to bank integration. And this is also an element that shows the great ambition of our role and an element that we think is central to the debate on the banking union. The creation of a pan-European banking area will result in a more diversified economy capable of assuming better possible disruptions. Thirdly, economic and monetary union must be provided with a stabilization capacity that complements automatic stabilisers in the event of a serious crisis. For the design of this stabilization capacity, the Spanish document proposes two different pillars. Firstly, an insurance mechanism based on a fund to which Member States can rely in the event of a sharp and substantial increase in expenditure resulting from a severe disturbance. Your Honor, mechanisms such as unemployment coverage can be introduced here because our system is flexible enough to cover it. In short, this proposal is in line with the very ambitious document that the International Monetary Fund presented a couple of months ago and which it had occasion in particular to explain in Madrid recently. In addition - and I insist on the word additionally - we propose a new European Investment Bank lending instrument that provides resources to maintain the level of investment in the event of recessions, thus protecting potential long-term growth. Finally, the fourth element of the Spanish proposal concerns the MEDE. We want the MEDE to have a strong mandate on crisis management, based on two main functions. Firstly, a strengthened role in financial assistance to Member States experiencing difficulties, participating in the negotiation but without hindering and without diverting the role that the European Commission has to play, according to the Treaty. Secondly, a key role in supporting the stability of the banking sector, providing liquidity to the common support mechanism for the banking union mentioned above, together with greater flexibility in the use of the new direct bank recapitalisation instrument. As you see - and I have wanted to expand on the details of the proposal - this is a comprehensive, technically sound and ambitious proposal which reflects - and this is the fundamental point - exactly the points that President Tusk asked us to develop for the June negotiations. These are the points that are being discussed and to which Spain wants to contribute ambitiously. Our contribution is indeed to participate in the debate with sound proposals, which are technically among the best being presented to the Eurogroup in the current debate on how to shape economic and monetary union and, in particular, banking union at the next June summit. Spain, Your Honor, maintains its integration objectives and European ambition in the long term. Once we have the banking union - I think Tusk's words here are key - we will have the opportunity to move forward on the other points, but we must now be present in the debate that is alive today in the Eurogroup and that next week we will have, for example, in Brussels. These include the creation of a European Treasury, the creation of a common risk-free asset for the eurozone, or other points, such as that of the European Finance Minister, where Spain has always taken an ambitious stance. But now we have to contribute to the debate we are going to discuss in June. With regard to the other part of its interpretation, the Government proposes an increase in its interest in budgetary negotiation. This is a debate which is beginning and which, for reasons of time, I may not be able to develop fully. The negotiations are beginning, there is a long way to go, but we see elements, which we share, of concern in the CAP and the structural funds, but I have to say that there is also some positive element. As far as my powers as a minister and my ministry are concerned, let me say in particular that we have noted with great interest the proposed budget increase for R & D+i in the new Horizon Europe Agenda, which provides EUR 100 billion for R & D activities. It seems to us to be an important development, we believe in the future of the Spanish economy and in 2027 this will be a central point for our development and, therefore, I would simply like to leave this positive aspect to you, along with other issues that we will certainly have an opportunity to negotiate. In short, maximum ambition and technical qualification in the debate for June and we share in the long term the ambitious objectives for an economic and monetary union in the future. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u155	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, I think you wanted to divert attention from what is at stake and what is being discussed in Europe. Why am I telling you this? Has the European Commission or has it not made a proposal for an agenda, for an in-depth reform of economic and monetary union? He did it in December last year and of course he talks about many more things than the banking union. Obviously - you have acknowledged it in your intervention - the banking union needs the fiscal union and, therefore, when we talk about the banking union we have to talk about the fiscal union. But the European Commission itself, in December of last year, has put forward an agenda to discuss in 2018. Is it not realistic, therefore, what the European Commission is proposing? Is that agenda not what we are going to talk about in Europe in 2018? That is the agenda that will be discussed in the forthcoming Councils in Europe. Moreover, in May of last year, the former Minister of Economic Affairs raised the alternative of the Spanish Government in relation to the reform of the euro and economic and monetary union. And there the previous minister, Mr De Guindos - who will certainly sound like him - was talking about a common anti-crisis budget, a common unemployment insurance, Eurobonds, a European treasure, complementing the banking union and the sharing of risks, in fact, to reform, because that is what is being talked about in Europe. What has changed, Minister? What's changed? You can tell me: well, we've changed minister. Hey, but the bandage, the government bandage? You were talking to me about the December summit last year; there were objectives. On 15 December 2017, at the end of the Euro Summit in Brussels, Mr Rajoy, president of our country's government, said: we need a European budget, because that is an aspiration of Spain - says the president of the government -. He says that we need a minister of finance and Eurobonds to complement economic and monetary union, whose design cannot be left half way at all and that we need fiscal union for banking union. Mr. Rajoy says so. He also said that it was impossible to have an economic and monetary union, it was impossible to have a banking union that was not accompanied by a fiscal union. But if the President of the Government has said so at the summit you are talking about, Minister! What are we talking about? Let's see, what are we talking about, disorientation or decomposition of the government? What are we talking about? Mr Minister, the President of the Government has said this at that summit that you are talking about. That is to say, it does not stick to the argument that you gave us here this morning, it does not stick to it; because the Commission has an agenda to discuss, which is also known to everyone and which talks about reforming the euro, but also involves talking about fiscal union. And it is that Mr De Guindos raised his alternative does not come to a year, but Mr Rajoy at that summit that you are talking about said that we should put forward the fiscal union. Minister, it's just that you don't stick to the argument you gave us here today. Of course, you have not told me anything, Minister, about that failure - to call it something - of the inadequacy of not having presented that project and not having debated it in the Congress of Deputies. That problem is not only of form, it is of substance, it is of conception, because we are playing a lot, not only in the present, but also in the future. Minister - and I am finished - you say to me that the proposal we are making on banking union is technically very solvent. I already say to you, at the outset, that if you do not talk about fiscal union you no longer have that required solvency; and I do not say so, Mr Rajoy himself says. But also, you see, it does not talk about two very important issues for Spain in that banking union, which are the safe assets - very important - and regulation, how sovereign debt will remain in the banks' liabilities. That is very important for Spain, very important, and there is not the proposal you have made, unambitious from the point of view of banking union. In addition, you acknowledge in your speech: well, some things you have told me about could be talked about, what I have written could point it out. Hey, what does that mean, you don't have the courage to put on paper what you're thinking? I mean, you leave it to other countries to put it on? That, not being able to put it on paper for other countries to put it on, what's your name, ladies and gentlemen? Political cowardice? Minister, not even the ambition in relation to the banking union occurs in your document. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u156	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u157	On one occasion, I have had the opportunity to call the contribution that we have made to the discussion of the Eurogroup as timely, technically sound and ambitious, and this is ultimately the summary of our proposal. I wanted to convey to you how the agenda for discussion is right now and what is being discussed at this time; last week Bulgaria was discussed, next week in Brussels will be discussed and discussed at the two or three remaining meetings until the European summit in June, where the agenda is and where the points of discussion are. You mention to me the contributions that have been made before the December summit, the contributions that the Spanish Government has made, the statements by the President of the Government and the statements by Minister De Guindos, and I can only say that they seem to me to be absolutely shareable. Obviously, the Government has not changed its position on design, a central element that we probably share in many cases, on what our vision of the future of economic and monetary union is. What has changed is the agenda, because what was said in December is that we have to discuss certain points, basically three: the MEDE, the support of the MEDE, the common deposit guarantee system and the stabilisation mechanism. That's what you're arguing about. Risk-free assets and the Basel debt-weighting system are important elements, but they are not on the agenda that was designed. And these are the points in which the Spanish Government wants to participate, wants to give ideas and wants to contribute to the ambition of breaking this link, in which we are moving in a circle, between sharing risks and reducing risks. This is a vicious circle that we must break in June if we really want ambition. What was pointed out in December, Your Honor - forgive me that in this nuanced case - is that we have to complete the banking union as a first step to take steps forward. As I already had the opportunity to count after the Eurogroup Summit in Sofia last week, the Spanish proposal has been very well received technically. I do not want to reveal what cannot be revealed and to break the confidentiality and the reserved nature of the discussions that are taking place, but I would like to say, Your Honor, that the Spanish proposal has been mentioned by its name by several representatives of the European institutions and some of the most important ones, and it is not something that happens every day, precisely because it gives solid, technically anchored keys to how to move forward in June. Spain maintains an ambitious vision of what economic and monetary union should be in the long term. The points that you mention, the points that, by the way, the President of the Government mentioned on the way out of the Council, are the central points for creating a solid euro area, for creating a robust euro area that will not again have crises like those we had and that will break the link between national risk and bank risk. But all that will have to be discussed during certain stages and now what we have to achieve is not to fail at the June summit. And if we do not show ambition, if we do not contribute to the debate, if we do not give technically sound elements that are mentioned by the institutions at European meetings, then Spain is not in the debate. We cannot repeat the same positions we put forward a year ago. Obviously, I agree with everything - how will I not be? - what Minister De Guindos said a year ago, but now we are at a different stage of debate, we are in the phase of getting concrete results, in a negotiation that is difficult and in a negotiation in which Spain has to be making proposals and that these proposals are being discussed by the main countries of the euro area, by the major economies and, of course, by the European institutions. Our approach maintains full ambition in the institutional design of the euro area, including elements such as a common budget, such as the creation of a minister in the euro area or risk-free assets. Of course, the Spanish Government maintains these objectives, which the President of the Government mentioned in December. All this, Your Honor, without prejudice to the promotion of greater fiscal integration, a fiscal union, the maintenance of a social union and a political union. It was already said by Schuman in 1950 and today we celebrate the day of the Schuman Declaration. However, today we have to focus on the results of the June summit and Spain, with what it is achieving, must be at the mouth of the technicians, experts and people who influence the roles that will be presented at that summit. If we don't chart the way for June, it's very difficult for us to get this deal. The views are ambitious, but also shared, Your Honor. The government has a deep European ambition and I know that its political group also has it. In this regard, progress at the June summit will be good news for all Europeans and believe me that I hope it will be good news for all. From here, Your Honor, I would like to express to you my utmost readiness to listen to the proposals. I transmitted them in my first appearance as a minister, in which you were present, so you knew the elements of that proposal in Parliament, but I would like to convey - with this I conclude, Your Honor - my utmost readiness to look for those points that unite us because on a Day of Europe like today it is a lot that we have in common with the Spanish Europeanists and a lot, definitely, what we played at the June summit. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMONLY POWDER IN MAREA, TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY ON THE SITUATION OF BLOCK IN THE MARKET OF THE AGREEMENTS OF THE REPORT OF THE SUBCOMMISSION OF THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE, AS IN THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PUBLIC EQUALITY POLICIES. [[File number 172/000121]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u159	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, on the situation of blockade in the implementation of the agreements of the report of the subcommission of the State Pact against Gender Violence, as well as in the development and implementation of public policies of equality. For your defence, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Minister, 232 days have passed since the adoption of the State Pact against Gender Violence in this House in plenary. During this time, forty-six Machist murders, recognized as such by the report itself, have been committed. Do you understand why my group, this Member speaking to you today, is questioning you? To date we have counted forty-six Machist murders, and we are doing so not only ourselves, minister, but also independent platforms, such as Feminicidio.net, a platform on which Graciela Atencio is certainly present, who appeared in the subcommittee of the Covenant of State, and is constantly doing so on the street. Women in this country are saying that no measure of the State Covenant has been implemented. No measure of the State Covenant has been implemented to date. You appeared before the Equality Commission in January and you know very well that we found your account to be profoundly inadequate. We didn't find any measures that were under way. It was rather a trileros trick - and we told it so at the time, Minister - in which, in the end, we did not see the calendar or the budget, the one that in December 2017 was said to be endowed in an extraordinary way. Month of January, month of May and in the middle of nowhere. Do you understand why my group is questioning you today, Minister? We count 232 days and forty-six sexist murders, because, minister, we can't put the accountant to zero when he starts a year. The women of this country don't put it to zero. Every life counts. The lives that ceased to be such in 2017 because they were snatched, tell and also tell a story, their own, that in a moment ends up with a structural problem that is called machismo, which is called patriarchy. Call it whatever you want, use the word you want; what we are asking you to do is do something, although it is true, Minister, that calling things by your name helps quite to tackle the root of the problem. And it is something more than patching, which is what we have been saying with the state pact, which is insufficient, which is to patching up a problem that requires a look, a positioning and a structural commitment. You'll say why... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg a little silence. It was very difficult for her to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u162	You will say, Minister, that if we said precisely that this pact was insufficient, why do we insist so much on the systematic non-compliance they are making. We remind him every day of the institutional responsibility that exists after every news of every macho murder, every attempted murder, every rape we know about in the public sphere. For you will see, Minister, because it gives me very much, very much anger that we were right when we said that this state pact was insufficient; because we would have preferred to be wrong, of course, and that we were responding right now to the violence to which we are exposed all the women of this country for the mere fact of being women. The state pact is wet paper; less lacy and more money. We were singing this on March 8 next to the feminist movement, with the feminist movement; we were singing this when the General Budgets of the State were debated here and we went out to accompany the feminist movement that was saying precisely that. You see, those two images are tremendously eloquent of what we are saying here; they are the two images that make clear how the Government has taken the state pact. Because the state pact seems to be good for washing the image of a president after declaring in the National Court and doing some kind of Rajoy washing so that you don't see that comes from declaring from the National Court and you take a picture with the state pact afterwards. But it seems that in this state pact neither are the rickets worth 200 million euros that had to go into these general state budgets; it seems that this rickets budget is no longer worth so much: 1050 million in five years to implement the 231 measures. This is what we managed to build up to the consensus, 200 million a year, a direct funding channel for the autonomous communities and local governments, which had to come this way, as it were, with direct and finalist funding. Madam Minister, what a shame to have to go into the detail of these figures when anyone who sees the General Budgets of the State knows that EUR 200 million is calderilla!What a shame that we should talk about this and what a shame that we should not stop asking and find no answer! But let's do it; I don't come with a board but the truth is we have little loss here. Of the 200 million, 120 are not; the 120 million euros that had to go for the financing of the autonomous communities and local administrations in a finalistic way, not in a whole but directly, are not. Okay. Of the other 80, and in the face of the misalignment between the yellow book and the red and green books - because the prose says one thing, but then the numbers come - we find nothing. As I imagine you will know, we ask the government delegate on gender-based violence where the 40 million of the Ministry of the Interior were, because we - not just ourselves but the feminist groups who are dedicated to studying them carefully - do not find them. We didn't get an answer. Therefore, of those 80, there are already 40 who are not and, if I am honest with you, the truth is that we have not given the totality of the other 40 nor have we obtained any response in this regard. So out of the 200 million, we went to locate something less than 40 million. Those 231 measures, how are they going to be executed this year with that amount so small, so rachytic? By the way, I'm going to remind you of something that I'm sure you have in your head. What does the page of the Moncloa, of the Government of Spain, say on December 27, 2017? I read it as follows: In fact, the minister has announced her commitment and that of the government that if in the first quarter or four months the 2018 budgets have not been approved and there is an extended budget, there will be a change of credit with the 200 million to which the executive had committed. Well, May is the fifth month of the year and we still have no General State Budgets. Where's that credit change with the 200 million? Do you understand why my group has to question you today? We emphasize the absolute lack of commitment because without resources there are no feminist policies and no state pact, there are only well-meaning words. When women are being raped, assaulted, discriminated against and killed, what makes the good intention is to chirria us. [[Applauds]] We stress that this is what the street is saying, and that is what the 16th of May is going to say: compromise is equal to the budget. Do you know what your government delegate told us when we were so insistent - and not just my group, by the way - with where the 200 million are? He told us that things can also be done without a budget, that things can also be done without money. So I propose to you, Minister, that you tell the entire Council of Ministers that without money they rescue the highways and leave the money for citizenship, for the citizenship of all people, for the citizenship of women, because while we live exposed to violence because of the mere fact of being women, it is difficult for us to have a citizenship that is not a second-class citizenship, a citizenship without full rights. [[applause]] How is it not going to be a second-rate citizenship if today it remains a receipt for justice that judgments that perfectly describe what is a rape, an assault, are then resolved with a judgment of abuse? How is it not going to be a second-rate citizenship if, in the face of the harm caused to us by machismo, our rights are still being questioned and violated? How is it not going to be a second-rate citizenship if we do not even address macho violence within the framework of human rights? Of course, the state pact is insufficient! But it is also that they do not have a hint of shame, because not to meet minimums as minimal as those that exist, with this systematic violation of human rights of half the population, is not to have shame, minister, nor institutional responsibility, nor dignity to be performing a position as vital to the whole population as is his ministry. Because we keep saying that not only is the state pact insufficient, but we also need measures that go to the structural issue. As long as there is inequality, there is a breeding ground for violence and there your ministry is called to perform a fundamental task. He is called, but in his ministry no one answers, minister. Investment in equal opportunities by the Government does not reach the levels of the crisis, it does not reach the levels of 2009. We are not reaching figures like those before the crisis, despite this supposed recovery that we do not know when it will finally touch the women of this country. Do you know what you're doing in equality policies? Dismantling and screwing up: dismantling the Women's Institute and retracting with every measure they put in place. It is of wise and thoughtful people, minister, correct when there are errors. Under this premise, his ministry is brimming with wisdom because it has been a legislature in which they have acted in this way: to present a proposal, to find the response of the feminist movement and to withdraw the proposal; the campaign against alcohol consumption in the youth in which they ended up blaming young women because if they drank they could be raped, or to put 016 as a telephone of pedagogical assistance for men, as if 016 was not overloaded and underfunded. These are tenders which must then be retracted. One thing is to make a mistake and another very different is to keep making them. I believe, Madam Minister, that we have given him a margin. I do not know whether you will recall that at the first appearance of this legislature that you made in the Equality Commission we said that we would always disagree when it was timely but with all the constructive spirit. Minister, I am afraid, from what you have shown, that you are not aware right now of the value of your ministry - a ministry that is that of the sustainability of life, the ministry of health, the ministry of well-being, the ministry of equality of all people - nor is you aware of the historical moment that we are living. If you were aware of that historical moment right now you would be battling copper with the rest of the ministers, you would be demanding Catala, Zoido, Montoro, De Cospedal, you would be demanding that the Vice President and the President of the Government not only be implementing the entire state pact but also be implementing feminist policies and having budgets crossed by a feminist perspective; feminist policies so that we live without fear, so that we will live in full right all women, all migrants, racialized women, lesbian women, trans women, precarious women, those who have functional diversity, all women in this country. It is a very high responsibility, Minister, and what we see - and therefore we ask you - is that you do not live up to your ministry, nor to this historic moment, nor to the women of this country, who are continually going out on the street to say Enough! It is enough that citizenship is not a full citizenship. It's enough that we have to go out in fear. It is enough that we are discriminated against in all spheres of life. Minister, answer, but do not answer me alone, that I am only a vehicle of what you are saying on the street; answer all those women who are going out on the street and also those men are asking for feminist policies, who are asking for a country that can be said to be democratic, that can be said to be fair and that can be said to be equal. I look forward to your answer and would like to see how you decide to live up to your ministry from now on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u163	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u164	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum of this Congress of Deputies proud to be part of this country, which is Spain, proud of the great social transformation that we Spanish people have witnessed for more than forty years of democracy. A social transformation that has made us more just, more equal, more free and, above all, that has meant a social conquest of rights especially for us, women. We, along with many men, are the heroines of a history of social conquests, ours, that of Spain, which began with the first woman who exercised her right to vote, with the first company and administration that with which a woman for a position of responsibility, with the first woman who recognized herself as owner of the lands she worked, with the first man who applied for her paternity permit and with the first and his son who have been recognized as victims of gender-based violence. This conquest begins with the undisputed protagonistism of millions of women of several generations - of our grandmothers, of our mothers - who have been overcoming the obstacles of real and effective equality. From the Spanish Government we are very clear about what equality means. Equality is that women and men can realize the life plan we want on freedom and equality. We defend the equality that puts the person at the centre of all policies. We are all equal before the law, and a country that evolves, that progresses, that grows is the one that does it with all its talent, the feminine and the masculine. We, the Government of Spain, defend this social transformation to abandon the society of divided roles, to defend this society of shared roles, where working for equality is to build social conditions that allow to make the rights already recognized legally real, and therefore the Government of Spain works 24 hours a day 365 days a year to make real and effective equality possible. We do this from employment, from the break-up of stereotypes, from conciliation and co-responsibility, and from the firm fight against violence against women on the sole ground of being women. We do so because we believe that the tool of employment is one of the main tools to combat inequality between women and men, because it provides freedom, autonomy and personal well-being. Real and effective equality has its own name. Today there are more than eight and a half million women working in Spain, and this has been achieved by a People's Party government, together with society. It's the highest figure in history. With a government of the People's Party we have narrowed the wage gap. We are not in compliance, of course, but it has been a People's Party government that has narrowed the wage gap by 4 points, going below the European average. In the case of women living in situations of special vulnerability, employment is even more important and that is why we are working in coordination with companies from the Government. We have managed, thanks to a multitude of companies, through the Enterprise for a Gender-Free Society, to have women victims of gender-based violence work in Spain today; also thanks to programmes carried out between the ministry and the third sector, so that women belonging to ethnic minorities, women over forty-five years of age, women with disabilities or women living in rural areas, find employment. We not only talk about equality, but we also make it a reality. As for stereotypes and related women, from education we eliminate stereotypes, visible and invisible barriers and prejudices, which are in people's minds and which prevent equal opportunities. It has been the government of President Mariano Rajoy who has included equality as a cross-cutting principle in the education system. We are the ones who are developing programs to eliminate stereotypes in STEM disciplines - science, technology, engineering and mathematics - because we want to narrow the digital gap that exists in women, and we are the ones who have put an anonymous curriculum into the process of selecting companies to eliminate prejudices and biases that prevent us from seeing our talent. We are also making progress in a model of coexistence, where conciliation and co-responsibility are a matter for everyone. We are very clear, as we have said, that we are defending a society of shared roles and, therefore, it is we who have approved a maternity supplement in the pensions of working mothers, and this has been done by a People's Party Government. For me it is one of the great measures that this Government has taken in favour of women who work and have had children, so that when they retire they will receive a supplementary pension. This has led to a 14 per cent reduction in the pension gap, thanks to a measure by the People's Party Government. It is we, the Government of the People's Party, who have introduced in the General Budgets of the State of 2018 an aid to families of 1000 euros for the payment of day care. It has been a People's Party government that has increased paternity leave from two to four weeks, and in these 2018 budgets we extend it to a fifth week. It has been a People's Party Government that has issued the breastfeeding permit not only for women but also for men. It has been a People's Party government that has increased the day-saving allowance for children between the ages of eight and twelve for men and women, and this has also been done by a People's Party government. This is working for real and effective equality and for the society of shared roles. We are in a country where we have been able to come to a great deal of agreement to put an end to all the types of violence that we women suffer from simply being. This fight against macho violence is a commitment that concerns us all, women and men. This struggle is not only of women victims, it is not only of some women with one ideology or another, but of the whole of society as a whole, a commitment that the Democrats of this country have been waging for a long time, when you still didn't have a seat here. Do not think because you are here in this legislature that those of us who were here the last forty years have done nothing. [[Applauds]] We have done a great deal for equality, real and effective equality, and for combating gender-based violence. I'll explain it to you, in case you don't know. I remind you of three milestones in this fight against gender-based violence. Year 2003: It was a Government of the People's Party that introduced the crime of domestic abuse into the Criminal Code and established effective protection for victims through the penalty of prohibition of approximation. It was a government of the Socialist Party that in 2004 passed the organic law with the unanimous support of the House, and the People's Party, which was in opposition, had no doubt of passing that law in 2004. It was a People's Party government in 2013 that for the first time in Spain promoted a national strategy for the eradication of violence against women with 284 real and effective measures. And in 2017, a fourth major milestone is added, a state pact that unites the effort and the unanimous desire of the whole society, which for the first time recognizes all types of violence against women for the mere fact of being so, that violence is not just a matter of couple, but of the whole society. This state pact is a state pact for the victims, because it gives them hope and a very powerful message against the abuser, who has no place in our society. Never before had any Government of Spain allocated EUR 408 million in the State General Budgets to end the macho violence, of which more than EUR 40 million are intended to increase the number of police officers, improve the facilities of police stations that care for victims and train judges. More than €39 million for the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, 4 points above the 20% set out in the State Pact, more than €5 million to improve the protection of orphaned children, because we all know that orphaned children of non-quota mothers are not entitled to an orphan's pension, and it has been a Government of the People's Party, because it is in the pact, which has provided in the State General Budgets sufficient for orphaned children whose non-quota mothers receive an orphan's pension. [[Applauds]] This is in the budgets, the budgets you will say no to. They will therefore say no to orphans and say no to victims, and there are more than €7 million in awareness-raising campaigns targeting especially young people and adolescents. In the budgets there are three things, the 80 million euros, the increase of the delegation of the Government for Gender Violence, by 4 points higher than that established by the state pact, and the increase of financing to the autonomous communities and municipalities by 4300 million euros. It's also in the budgets. Thus, the autonomous communities and the municipalities have sufficient resources to comply with the pact, just as the Government of Spain is complying with it. And I have no doubt that the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the Government of Spain and society as a whole will continue to comply with this pact. You know why? For the victims, because we believe in the victims and because we will never abandon them. Mrs Fernández, you know in detail the figures of the State Pact and of the General Budgets of the State because the delegate of the Government, the Secretary of State and I have appeared four times in the Courts to report on these figures and the implementation of the measures of the State Pact, and I will soon appear in the Follow-up Committee of the recently constituted State Pact on Gender Violence in this House, where we will again address in depth the implementation of each and every measure of the Pact. Let me remind you that this great pact reflects the will of our entire society, a society committed to women victims, their children and their families, because the victims have always been, are and will be our priority. We will do so, and we have demonstrated this through each of the legislative reforms that we have promoted since the People's Party government. It was a Government of the People's Party that adopted the Statute of the Victims of Crime, giving a legal and social response to those who have suffered violence. And it has been a People's Party Government that reformed the Criminal Code that protects against hatred, racist, ideological or sexual violence, trafficking and forced marriages. The victims of any kind of violence are those who must continue to inspire us every day to improve our society, to break stereotypes, prejudices and barriers that prevent the equality and freedom of all people. Wherever there is a victim, the People's Party Government will be there to protect them and help them move forward without fear and freedom. Equality is the key to opening minds and achieving a just, equal and free society of all kinds of violence. That equality is not yours, Mrs Fernández, nor mine, is everyone's. That equality is of all Spaniards and of all Spaniards! [[Applauds]] Together we have made this great state pact a reality. I assure you on my behalf, on behalf of the government and the rest of the Democrats that we believe in peace and freedom and that we will never let it break. We defend equality with the same firmness and intensity as we defend freedom. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u166	I think the phrase was different. I think the phrase was: wherever there is a need there will be a revolution. I think it wasn't: where there's a victim we'll be, we'll be. By the way, if you want, then we'll talk about inclusive language, Minister of Equality. [[Applauds]] And I think that you really give me the key with all that energy you have in answering me, but I would like you to be less corporatist with your own Council of Ministers and that energy is used precisely to defend everything that, on the other hand, you know that you have not given me any response. That energy must not be put on when there are victims, it must be put on the rights of all women in this country. If we think of a state pact for victims, we do not understand that we do not want to see victims who, by the way, are women who have survived or who have not been able to tell. If we keep talking about victims, it seems that we have to take care of them, assist them and be aware of them. No, what we don't want is for there to be victims of macho violence in this country. [[Applauds]] We want a state pact for women in this country and for them to enjoy their full citizenship and not be a second-class citizen, Minister. I very much like that you are interested in our political approaches and that you too want to put life at the centre of politics. I really like those ideas to be quiet because I think they are advances in which we give a bear hug and we manage to drag into what is important, which challenges us all and that this, Minister, is not a conversation between you and me, I insist. Please, there is no attempt here to appropriate the idea of equality, but we would like to convey to you that the idea of equality that is being asked on the street is not permeating this House and is not reaching its ministry. We're gonna put things right and it doesn't look like this is something between you and me. This has to do with women's citizenship and their ministry is being absolutely negligent throughout this legislature with it. [[Applauds]] Putting life at the centre is a priority for the people of my parliamentary group, it is a priority for the municipalities of change, it is a priority in the institutions, to which we are transferring the demands that have been made in recent years with a great deal of force on the streets and that priority is achieved with some things on which it is in your hands to exert pressure to do so. It is achieved without capitalism of friends and it is achieved without corruption, because corruption, in addition to being profoundly unjust, is completely macho because it is taking what is of all and what is common and that it is left to a few. I believe, Madam Minister, that to place lives on the axis of politics you have a lot of work ahead of you in your own Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]] There are some specific questions that I do not want to fail to answer, that is, you have not found any answers to my questions but you have raised issues that I would like to answer. For example, what has to do with permits, with this extension to five weeks of which they are so proud and which says that it is this Government that has achieved this one-week extension of permits, as it is this Government that has twice vetoed a law to ensure that permits are truly equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent remunerated. [[Applauds]] I don't know what idea you have of equality because it turns out that the fact that women continue to care for their creatures in the first year of life in a way disproportionate to men, of equality has nothing. Raising a week is rather a trap because it gives us a mirage of equality that does not in any way resemble criteria that have to do with an equitable distribution, with breaking that implicit contract of sexual division of labour. Since you have quoted Fatima Báñez, I will quote my colleague Aina Vidal, who this very morning reminded you of it. That's why I'm starting to think that this Greek concept of the parish that would have to be imbuing the House of Congress is useless, because we don't listen even when they're addressing us and us. Madam Minister, as I say to you, since you quote Fatima Báñez, I quote Aina Vidal, and it turns out that it is not that women are working now more than ever, it is that women have been working all our lives, historically we have always worked, but there is one job that is being paid and another that is not. By the way, in that remuneration and in that wage gap we still have the same problem: there is one job that is paid and another that is not, and there is also a much more precarious job. If we're talking about equality issues, there's a lot of work ahead. With a director of the Women's Institute who is totally outside a feminist perspective, who does not defend positive action - when it is a historic measure that has been shown to be the only thing that allows people to be in a situation of greater equality - and who, moreover, has no problem in saying that she does not know why women are murdered in this country, she has a lot of work ahead of her, Minister. I remind you of one thing I have heard you say to the Minister of Justice today. Mr Catalá spoke about the importance of language and inclusive language. It is terrible for the Minister of Justice to make that clear and not for the Minister of Equality. I remind you of Article 14 of Law 3/2017, 1.1 - Minister, this does not cost money, you do not have to fight with anyone, it is only yours -, use inclusive language and respect the very laws that govern your ministry. Finally, I would very much like, Madam Minister, that we can continue to have such talks, but in the face of your answer for nothing to all that we have asked - and for a long time now - and all those appearances that seem insufficient to us, I hope that we will not have these talks in the Chamber as a minister, but we will have them to continue working for equality for all women. Minister, you must understand that you are already doing well, that you are using the legislature to do nothing and that the women of this country need someone at the head of your ministry who is going to do something for equality but for true equality in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u167	Thank you. To conclude this debate, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u168	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, meeting held in Segovia, 2016, Pablo Iglesias: 'We make a masculine policy with balls'. [[Rumors]] And referring to a journalist, 'I'd whip her until she bleeds.' Do you really consider that I have to learn from you the inclusive language and ideas that you propose to me? Didn't they show up? [[applause.-Rumores.-Mrs.Arévalo Caraballo: You are the Minister of Equality!]] I didn't see them coming out of Segovia to manifest. [[Mrs Arévalo Caraballo: You are the Minister of Equality!-The rumors continue.- Mrs Montero Gil, pointing out the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group: Madam President, do not listen to the speaker!]] I was hoping you'd come forward. [[The Rumors Continue]] I'm going to tell you one thing, we defend just like you and that the whole society...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u169	Excuse me, minister. I ask all Members of the House to be silent so that I can listen to the speaker. Please, I beg you all to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u170	We defend, like you and the whole House, the right to equal opportunities for women and men. We defend, like everyone else, a society free of macho violence. We also advocate the right of all women to equal opportunities in access to decent work. We too defend the right of all women to receive the same salary as a man for the same work. We also defend the right of all women to hold the positions of responsibility that they deserve for the work they do. We also advocate the right of all women not to have to pay a professional cost for their motherhood. And we too defend the right of women living in rural environments to the same opportunities. Just as we uphold the right of women with disabilities not to feel doubly discriminated against by the mere fact of being women. But you know what makes us different? The way to defend him. You understand it as an ideological confrontation, a confrontation between women and between society, and we understand it as a social transformation that belongs to us all. A social transformation that began in the early 20th century with the incorporation of women in jobs, in a society that was divided roles and we now defend a society of shared roles. This is the great difference between Podemos and the People's Party Government, where we join all, where it is not a sex war, it is not a war of ideologies, where equality is nobody's heritage, it is everyone's heritage. [[Applauds]] This is the big difference between you and us. Do not use victims or women for electoralism because so never a country grows, never evolves and progresses. It evolves and progresses a country when it has all the masculine and feminine talent and transforming together this great society and this great country, and we have done so in the last forty years and we will continue to do so proudly. And of course there are many things we need to improve, but together. We in the Government of Spain will therefore continue to work for real and effective equality and to combat gender-based violence. I have heard your 17-minute speech and all I have heard is no: a no to the state pact, a no to the state general budgets and therefore a no also to the victims, because one thing is what you say on the streets and another is what you say in the rostrum, and the most recent example of this is your willingness to repeal the permanent reviewable prison, which is intended to provide greater protection for the victims and greater punishment for the murderers of victims under the age of 16, particularly vulnerable victims of illness or disability and victims of sexual assault or abuse. A little coherence, which is fundamental in politics; this is the truth: they defend one thing and then they say another, and what this country needs is less demagogy and that we are really together in the struggle for real and effective equality and in the fight against gender-based violence. Do you know who the real protagonists of the state pact are? The victims, Your Honor, the victims, the same who live in silence physical and psychological abuse. Therefore, never have any doubt and no one who is listening to me ever have any doubt that from the People's Party Government and the People's Party we will always be on the side of all the people who are victims of violence and I trust that you too will join, because there is only one side that is that of the victims and there will always be the People's Party Government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO PALIAR [[EAJ-PNV]] THE CONCERNING SITUATION OF THE INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF MENAES [[UNaccompanied FOREIGN LEADERS]] [[File number 172/000122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u172	We then turn to the urgent inquiry of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying situation resulting from the increase in the number of MENA [[EAJ-PNV]] [[unaccompanied foreign minors]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u173	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, you know perfectly well the motivation, the causes that lead us to present this inquiry and also on these dates, today. You also know that this debate, in addition to being necessary, has a specific framework that must always be taken into account, that of the principles or rules governing the situation of unaccompanied minors. You are also aware that the basic axis on which the actions of the different administrations have recently centered has been the framework protocol on actions concerning unaccompanied foreign minors, which is also the one that defines - by collecting other definitions made in international conventional norms - what is a MENA. A MENA is a foreigner under the age of 18 who is a national of a State to which the European Union regime does not apply, who arrives in Spanish territory without an adult responsible for him, either legally or in accordance with custom, and who is at risk of being deprived of the protection of the minor, as well as any foreigner who, once in Spain, is in that situation in accordance with Article 189 of the Aliens Regulation. This is what a MENA is for the Aliens Regulations, for the Child Protection Act, for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The third paragraph of that protocol also recalls other conventional rules, such as those relating to the fact that the proceedings covered by that protocol, and also all other public authorities, are inspired by the principle of the best interests of the child. But he also adds another in his second paragraph, which is that the policy on MENA should be geared towards family reunification in his country of origin or where his family resides or, where appropriate, return to his country when it is in his best interest. Well, that is also a key issue on which I would like to draw attention in the following exegesis. Nor is it idle to mention that article 3.1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child also reminds us of a nuance with regard to this characterization of the rights of minors, and that it shows the particularly vulnerable situation of unaccompanied minors, so it follows that the concept of the best interests of the child is complex in this matter, and its content must be determined on a case-by-case basis, meaning with these warnings that the situation of unaccompanied foreign minors transcends the mere protection of children. I wanted to remind you of these three brushstrokes that can somehow frame the debate on the principles and rights that converge in the field of unassisted minors because this links then with article 39 of the Constitution, which is where we must insert the scope of protection. Because the question to be addressed in this inquiry is the degree of effectiveness of the current system, based on the definition of article 39 of the Constitution, which establishes the obligation of the public authorities to ensure, first, the social, economic and legal protection of the family, but says in particular of minors. Well, in the view of the main actors in this area, the administrations entrusted with the care, supervision and guardianship of the MENA, their attention is today in a worrying situation, with great difficulties, as a result - and this is what it was at the moment - of two fundamental facts. On the one hand, the intensity of the migratory phenomenon that characterizes these events today, and on the other hand, the lack of effectiveness of the care protocol, which has not given the system the necessary effectiveness. That is why we are starting from that undeniable premise and on which I would like to make a first reflection. The regulations for the protection of minors and even the protocol itself are aimed at a perception of the reality different from that which has occurred in this debate, that of an exponential increase in MENA as a result of the increase in the phenomenon of migration. As far as we are concerned, it has only done more than just start or better said it has resumed and also more intensely than has been the case so far. That is why solutions are no longer urgent, but cannot be postponed. Moreover, on the basis of the obligation and necessary respect for the rights of minors, it is no longer necessary to suggest that consideration should perhaps be given to the literal nature of such basic legislation, to the protection of minors and also to the protection of foreigners, so as to allow for a more adequate inclusion of the MENA in this area of protection. An internal report from his own ministry warns of the existence of four different types of MENA. One is minors whose migration project is based on conditions of extreme poverty, which motivates them to look for other opportunities, with work as their primary objective. Two, minors who come from structured and unraveled families who emigrate even with family support. This is a new phenomenon, moreover numerous and especially significant. Three, street children; those who are without family ties and whose conduct is prejudicial in many cases, who are subject to addictions and who are the most at risk to the system. And four, minors from vulnerable groups, especially with disabilities, who are the ones most directly associated with minors in situations of helplessness covered by Spanish legislation. The fact is that Spanish legislation does not provide for this variety of typologies or for the adaptation of their measures to the real protection needs of these particular groups. It would therefore be appropriate to reflect on the current legal determinations, since it is undeniable that the conditions for access to the system of protection of both minors are not the same, since the law does not distinguish where reality has placed us on a different level. [[The lady]] As a second reflection, I would like to add that the protocol's suitability, not anymore, but rather its effectiveness according to its normative value. And it is that Chapter 1, paragraph 3, of the Protocol says that it is conceived as a framework protocol, understood as a type or pattern of good practice which, regardless of its binding value for the institutions of the State that subscribe to it, should be complemented by the drafting of other territorial protocols. None of this is happening, unfortunately, and it is therefore questionable, not as to its effectiveness, but as to its normative nature, because there is a high degree of non-compliance with the provisions of the protocol which results in situations of uncontrollability, in the first place, and therefore and as a consequence of unprotection of minors who are not assisted. That must be the focus of the debate: that the protocol should serve and be effective in its role of protecting unaccompanied minors. Therefore, a second reflection leads him to ask that it be precisely his ministry, the Ministry of Health, to whom Law 4/2000 assigns certain coordination tasks, that he take some initiative to strengthen the normative effectiveness of this protocol in order to make it useful to the citizen. The third is intra-governmental and inter-administrative coordination. The same Law 4/2000 states that it has this function of coordination not only extra-government, but also intra-government, because it is up to the Government itself, first of all, to push forward this normative initiative, where appropriate, but especially to its ministry, the Ministry of Health, to strengthen not only the coordination but also the normative impulses to which I have referred. Those and other issues that should be referred to different ministries are those that I would like to point out to you as needing reinforcement by government action, and on which you, as minister in the field of health, immigration and minors, must become aware. I have already reported them, but there are also other internals derived from the protocol to which I should also pay particular attention. They relate, for example, to methods of determining the age of minors, in respect of which there is a different typology and practices which are not giving the necessary guarantees in the procedure. There are also other ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior, mainly because it is responsible for the entry control of minors and it is clear that there is a level of lack of effectiveness of the security services in such control that is unacceptable, and a greater effort should be required than so far and that it is appropriate to prevent practices that in many cases involve criminality. But if there is any data I want to highlight from the Ministry of the Interior it is precisely that of the review. As you know the review is the time at which minors are located, and they should be described, identified, controlled, made an identification form and transferred to the corresponding social services. Well, that is a practice that, carried out from the State Security Forces and Bodies, is having a major deficit since, even if they are physically identified, the formal review is not carried out until much later, in many cases even up to six months later, which allows for an even more vicious practice, which is precisely that, since they are not identified or described as such, they move freely through the territory without a prior order of guardianship, even if it is urgent, which could subject them to a degree of constituency or to the care of certain social services. I will also not refer to the non-compliance of the delegations and sub-delegations of the Government with their repatriation work, because they are in turn linked to another issue, which is that of foreigners, which is even more serious, since there is no known activity of locating relatives of minors or of dealings with the competent authorities of the country of origin in order to be able to repatriate them. Justice is another issue, it is the prosecutor's office that must be seriously touched because it must point out the common criteria regarding the formalization of custody and guardianship of minors, also to the protocols of age verification and other important ones. This could continue, but at the end of the day, what I want to emphasize is that there is an area of intergovernmental coordination that needs to be exercised in order to give effect to the protocol on the basis of which this protection should be given to the child. The fourth and final reflection is the approach to administrative responsibilities from a level playing field. It is obvious to remember that we are facing a supra-territorial phenomenon, even a supra-state phenomenon, which must involve different administrations with competence in this field, and not only the child protection administrations, but also those of different autonomous communities, those of the Government of the State, the Security Forces and Bodies, and even the prosecutor's office. As previously pointed out the obligations are born from the moment of the location of the minor or presumed minor until their identification for the determination of their age, and if necessary for the making available to the minor in the hands of the Public Service for the Protection of Minors without Documentation - I am reading article 192 of the Aliens Regulation - but not for their mere deposit in the social services, but for the exercise of an effective guardianship function. Well, we already know that this guardianship function in many cases is not being exercised immediately, and that it is also the result, to be said, of an outpouring of the situation in some territories and in some autonomous communities in respect of which action must be taken, enhancing their activities and further enhancing the coordination efforts of those autonomous communities with others that in turn do not have that level of effort. In conclusion, as I said, there are four lines of action that I call upon you as the axis of action of your Government: the normative initiative, the more effective consideration of the protocol, especially the coordination of the actions of the Government, of the different ministries, and also an action in relation to the administrations that are saturated by this over-occupation resulting from the increase in immigration, on which we must act with equity criteria. Nothing more, Minister; I expect your answer and then I will make these same proposals to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u174	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u175	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in the Government to ensure the welfare of minors, we are directing our efforts on three lines of action shared with the three categories of children's rights enshrined in the convention, known as the three pillars: promotion, protection and participation. In the area of protection, the Government's concern with regard to minors was to ensure their best interests, which was reinforced in the case of foreign minors who were not accompanied by their special vulnerability. Vulnerability that significantly increases the risk of being victims of violence or exploitation. In this sense, any public action in Spain concerning minors, regardless of their nationality or administrative status, is always presided over by the best interests of the child. Thus, any foreign minor who is declared in destitution becomes under the guardianship of the child protection services of the autonomous communities, and has the prosecutor's office as the guarantor that the actions carried out in relation to the minor are in the best interest. Therefore, all minors, including unaccompanied foreigners, are minors - children and adolescents according to United Nations terminology - to whom the legislation of our country protects, protects and protects, as are Spanish minors. This is reflected in the major progress made in recent years in our legislation on the protection of minors, which reflects the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the general comments of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which, as I have pointed out earlier, are the primary consideration of the best interests of the child. I shall now briefly refer to the relevant regulatory framework for the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors in our country. We have the Organic Law of 2004, on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain and their social integration, the Law of 2009, regulating the right of asylum and subsidiary protection, the Law of 2015, amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, which a priori recognizes the minority when it cannot be determined unquestionably, and the Regulation of the Organic Law on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain and their social integration of 2011, which establishes an integral legal regime for unaccompanied foreign minors, whose purpose is to strengthen the protection and guarantee of the rights of such minors and to promote their full integration into Spanish society, when their repatriation is not possible. In addition, two framework protocols have been adopted, I have already mentioned, one on unaccompanied foreign minors and the other on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, with a section on unaccompanied foreign minor victims. The framework protocol on certain actions concerning unaccompanied foreign minors already shows the multidisciplinary and complex nature of the issue we are discussing today. This is an agreement between the Office of the Attorney-General of the State and the ministries - you mentioned - of Justice, Health, Social Services and Equality, Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Employment, whose purpose is to coordinate the activities of the different administrations and institutions in relation to unaccompanied foreign minors, from the location of the minor to his or her identification, determination of age, making available to the protection and documentation entity, and also the proper functioning of the register of unaccompanied foreign minors, the ownership of which is in charge of the Ministry of the Interior. Secondly, it highlights the framework protocol for the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. Also, as part of the regulatory framework, I would like to highlight the adoption of an agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco on cooperation in the prevention of the illegal emigration of unaccompanied minors, their protection and therefore their concerted return, an agreement made in a referendum in Rabat on 6 March 2007, which entered into force on 2 October 2012. The agreement provides that the Spanish authorities shall decide on the return of the unaccompanied foreign child to his or her country of origin, as well as that the Moroccan and Spanish authorities shall cooperate to ensure the conditions for the effective family reunification of the child or his or her delivery by a guardianship institution, and shall therefore cooperate in the establishment of a remedial reception facility. As you can see, we have a comprehensive and guaranteed regulatory framework adopted in the interests of the best interests of the child, which gives us the opportunity to continue working on the protection of these children. Before addressing the issues raised by you in your inquiry, I think it is appropriate to provide a brief summary of the current situation of unaccompanied foreign minors in Spain. From the point of view of the figures the number of unaccompanied foreign minors in our country, on 30 April 2018, registered is 6248, which is a register that is in the Ministry of the Interior. The data available also allows us to analyse the regions in which unaccompanied minors are concentrated. The regions are Andalusia, Murcia, Melilla, Ceuta, Canarias, Catalonia, Basque Country, Valencia and Madrid. According to the information provided by the autonomous communities and autonomous cities, they agree that the profile that characterizes the migratory flow of unaccompanied minors that has occurred since mid-2017 does not coincide with the profile of the child at risk, helplessness, subject of full right of the public system of protection of Spanish minors, being therefore two different realities that would have to be addressed differently. And according to this information provided to us by the Autonomous Communities we can distinguish between several profiles, which you also mentioned. First, minors whose migration project originates in the conditions of extreme poverty of their families; second, minors of 17 and 18 years of age who come from structured families, so we cannot talk about an uprooting; third, children without family ties who are at risk of falling into the networks of mafias dedicated to drug trafficking, prostitution or crime, and are therefore minors in whom entry and exit from the centres are frequent; and fourth, minors belonging to vulnerable groups, especially with disabilities, with problems of lack of protection in their country of origin. Among them are minors of very young age, from twelve to fourteen years, in which it was not considered appropriate to keep them away from their family of origin, being priority favoring return processes. This reality involves facing new challenges, new problems, such as over-occupation of first-aid devices, frequent entry and exit, and the consequent risk for younger children. On many occasions the minor remains in the residential centre until he obtains a residence permit, when he voluntarily leaves the centre. This situation makes the services of minors become mere documentation processors, and not the objective that the Spanish Government and the autonomous communities really have, which is to work with these children with integration programmes in our country. The diversity of profiles and personal characteristics presented by minors arriving in Spain make the intervention with each of these profiles require differentiated and increasingly specific responses. One of the aspects he refers to in his inquiry is the repatriation of these minors, but we must also explain what difficulties we face. It can be said that the Spanish legislation is guaranteeing, establishing the immediate protection in our country of these minors, and for their possible repatriation - never expulsion, but repatriation - requires the processing of a file in which it is verified that the family of the minor who is going to take care of it has been located or, failing that, that the protection is going to be assumed by the services for the protection of minors in his country. Once it is verified that there is no risk, danger to the integrity of the child, that neither he nor his family members are persecuted, it is when repatriation is carried out, but I must say that the number of repatriations resolved by the government authority is low compared to the number of unaccompanied immigrant minors. In addition, the difficulty involved in carrying out these repatriations should be added, since in practice the cooperation of the child care institutions of the countries of origin with regard to the return of the child is less than the one desired and necessary. We agree that the analysis of this sensitive and complex situation should be addressed under a comprehensive approach by the different public administrations and institutions that have competence in this area. This requires a calm and rigorous debate, as we are faced with a complex reality in various dimensions, from the normative point of view, but above all from the competitive point of view. You should be aware of the different levels of the administrations involved and of the different competences that each has. And if we look at the sociological approach, as I have pointed out - the profiles of the minors to whom we refer are different -, far from generalizing, we will have to look for specific formulas and solutions. The Government already has open lines of work that would go through the creation of a commission to monitor the problem that we are dealing with today, with representatives of the Ministries of Employment, Interior, Justice, Foreign Affairs and Health and the Attorney General's Office and with the possibility of the presence of autonomous communities and cities. This committee would serve as a channel for communication, analysis, decision-making, evaluation and cooperation on problems arising in relation to unaccompanied minors, making appropriate proposals. We will also establish a working and discussion forum within the Inter-Self-Governing Commission on Children and Family, where all autonomous communities will participate by studying and making proposals on issues affecting unaccompanied minors. We are also prepared to update the framework protocol for intervention with unaccompanied foreign minors, one of the requests you have made to us. Perhaps it would be necessary that before updating this protocol we could work together with the two levels of administration - the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain with the various ministries responsible for this matter - with the two working groups that I have mentioned. I look forward to your proposals, both those of the Government and those of the Basque Government in this case, of the PNV Group, of the Basque Government in short. He knows that we have a good relationship with the councils of all the Autonomous Communities to discuss this issue, which requires commitment and responsibility on the part of all, and I am very convinced that with the measures that you propose to us and with the two working groups the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities will be able to improve the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors, thus solving the problems of the day-to-day management of the centres that are, above all, the Autonomous Communities. Thank you and know that the Government has a firm commitment and responsibility, together with the Autonomous Communities, to continue working with unaccompanied foreign minors. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u177	Madam Minister, I am extremely pleased that we agree on the diagnosis, and that is why I am asking you to implement those measures and actions which are based on two fundamental questions. Firstly, to satisfy the rights of minors and to comply not only with the principles, but also with the material content of those rights, which, as I recall, is the best interests of the child, which involves updating the protocol legislation to make it effective, as well as the legislative legislation to be able to bring the real situation into line with the responses that today seem not to be so effective within the framework of the legal norm itself, which requires their intervention. The other is that it acts, either in the form of coordination or in the form of an impetus, so that compliance with the framework protocol, which is supposed to make the measures provided for in the protocol itself effective in order to satisfy or avoid the situation of lack of protection, and to give rise to an effective protection of minors who are unprotected, is done in an effective way. Because the problem is that; the problem is that there is a protocol that is not being complied with; the problem is that there is a protocol that some do not comply with. And there is also an issue that is not being assessed, and that is that the breach of this protocol is causing not only situations of protectionlessness, but violation of fundamental rights of minors. Because, as I have pointed out before, when a minor is located and placed at the disposal of the social services of the relevant territory, he must be immediately subject to an area of guardianship - and this is covered by chapter 7 of the protocol, which states that as soon as there is identification, which belongs to the security forces and bodies, and is placed in the hands of the social services, this declaration of urgent guardianship must be produced - with which a response would be obtained at least of legal protection, perhaps not material. No one prevents a minor from escaping, but at least he would be legally protected and would be entitled to certain actions that he does not have today, but the only thing that gives rise to is a legal limbo situation in which he chooses on many occasions to go to other territories to make a pilgrimage between centers, seeking often not to know or what and sometimes to know unfortunately what he is looking for. That is why I am pleased, Minister, to agree, but I would ask you not only to agree on the purposes, but also on the actions. That's where I want to put the first duty, to put it in a way. Second, repatriation. I have told you that there are two fundamental rights. One is the best interests of the minor and the other of family reunification. That is a factor that is not being addressed in any way, that is an issue in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and sub-delegations of the Government are not acting in any way. And that is an area in which we must focus, because family reunification is a basic right of the child; it is true that it is nuanced in the sense that when possible, when it is effective in the sense of the best interests of the child, but it has to be tried and not done. You yourself have commented to me that the number of entries last year has been 6248; this year we will see what they are, because they will be many more even. What is the number of actions addressed to this regrouping? With one feature: absolutely all minors have mobile phones and the vast majority of them keep in touch with their own families on an ongoing basis. There is a kind of distortion between the material reality and the legal reality that does not sympathize with the interests of the child, and that is the object to which we must direct our action. That is why, Madam Minister, and I am now finishing this line with our proposals must also deserve a more effective response from the Government. You are going to find collaboration in me and in my group, although in this the Basque Government has few powers - they are the outlaws -; you are going to find collaboration, I think, of all the institutions of the Basque Country, and I imagine that of all the autonomous communities, because this is a problem not only general, but of first order in terms of the ethical value of certain rights. All rights have ethical value, but there are rights of particular importance. Surely on that path we will meet but, please, I ask you to act, because the problem begins to be very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u178	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u179	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this situation is a concern shared by the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities. We have had a dialogue in the various forums of inter-administrative collaboration that this ministry has with them, such as the Inter-Self-Governing Commission on Children and Family. The Ministry has developed a questionnaire for the Autonomous Communities in order to complete and update the information available with quantitative and qualitative data of a more specific nature regarding the situation of unaccompanied minors and their attention by public entities, which allows us all to have a greater knowledge of this reality. From the Government we maintain a constant dialogue to address the future of these children together. You raise a number of ideas that you launch into flight but that require a little more reflection. I will refer, for example, to the possibility of activating transfers of unaccompanied foreign minors to autonomous communities that have not saturated their reception centres. As you know, the role of the State in dealing with this possibility is limited, to the extent that it is for the autonomous communities of destination to sign any agreements. In fact, this possibility has long been contemplated in our legislation on foreigners. Article 35.12 of the Organic Aliens Act of 2009 provides that the Autonomous Communities may enter into agreements with the Autonomous Communities where unaccompanied foreign minors are present to take up guardianship and custody, in order to ensure that minors have better conditions of integration. The only record that can be seen is that of 2009 and 2010 in the so-called Programme for the Transfer of Unaccompanied Minors from the Canary Islands to the Peninsula. There is no doubt that it is a repeated demand that greater emphasis be placed on negotiations with the countries of origin, mainly Morocco, in order to enable the repatriation of unaccompanied minors, in accordance with the best interests of the child, of course, and also with the interest of the family grouping or, failing that, to take them to child protection centres. At this point, I must say that the Government's action in this regard is consistent in the context of the close bilateral relations between Morocco and Spain, as shown by the numerous meetings held in the Permanent Working Group of the Republic of Morocco, which, together with the analysis of migration issues, addresses the specific issue of unaccompanied foreign minors. Thus, during the last meeting of the Spanish-Moroccan standing group, held on 12 April in Madrid, it was agreed to increase the frequency of the meetings of the working group of minors, whose next meetings would be articulated on the launch of a pilot experience of voluntary return of Moroccan unaccompanied foreign minors, subject to the fulfilment of certain requirements: the child's voluntarity, the prior identification of the family and his acceptance of the return of the child as well as the opportunity for socio-professional development in Morocco. At this point, I would like to stress that the beginning of the child's procedure has as its fundamental element its voluntariness. In the case of unaccompanied minors of Algerian origin, the matter may be brought into the Government's dialogue with this and other countries of origin of such minors. I would also like to say to you that the Government of Spain, together with the autonomous communities and with the instruments I have proposed - the working groups - wants to continue working and intensify collaboration, with the aim of ensuring the best interests of unaccompanied foreign minors among all the competent administrations. I am convinced that we will be able to reach agreements to permanently improve the protection we give to our children in our country as well as to unaccompanied minors, but we must do so together, with a calm and rigorous debate. I sincerely believe that, in order to amend the protocol, we must first work - as we are doing in the Interministerial Commission on Family and Children - with all the autonomous communities. We have to deal with this in the two working groups before we make the proposal to amend the protocol. I am convinced that we will be able to reach an agreement between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain to be able to improve the protection of the interests of the child as well as family reunification so that the Autonomous Communities that are assuming more unaccompanied minors see a more flat path. I am aware of the situation and know that I have a special relationship with all social counsellors in all the autonomous communities whose centres are seeing an increase in the number of unaccompanied foreign minors. I insist, the Government's will is to work side by side with the autonomous communities to be able to modify the proposals you have made to us here, but we must do so together, rigorously, calmly and from these instruments that I have proposed. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-09-CD180509.u180	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was one and five in the afternoon.
