ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u1	The meeting was resumed. This plenary session includes the debate and adoption of Senate amendments and Committee opinions on organic legislative initiatives, agenda items 34, 35, 38 and 39, which have to be put to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 3 p.m. Which doesn't mean they're going to be at 3 p.m. but they'll never happen before 3 p.m. Thank you very much. We continue with the agenda item on the Government's agreement that, in accordance with Article 15 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2019-2021 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for 2019 are set. To present the agreement, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I compare today with you for the second time in this session to submit to you for approval the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 7 December last, agreement setting out the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the period 2019-2021, an agreement that, as you know, is one of the previous steps for the preparation of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2019. They also know that this agreement contains a more flexible and realistic consolidation path, in line with all the data and forecasts of the international agencies, all of which warned in June and which continue to warn today that the policies of the previous Government were leading to a deficit greater than initially foreseen; a situation, ladies and gentlemen, aggravated in the 2018 budget because measures were incorporated that made its implementation impossible. In other words, spending measures that were not related to income were incorporated into the income section, which makes it impossible, impossible, to meet the stability path envisaged by the previous Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement that we are bringing to your attention today, I would say, is a prerequisite for providing greater legal certainty in the handling of the general budgets for 2019 and we are thus complying with the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. As is logical and mandatory, it is supported by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration, which met in August. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you will be wondering why we are presenting the same path as in July. The answer is clear and quite simple: nothing has changed in the will of the Government. We do not give up our claim that these new objectives, which were agreed with Brussels, are an opportunity for Spain to promote growth, development and the improvement of services, in short, to begin the recovery of the rights that were taken away from the citizens during the crisis. And not only that, ladies and gentlemen, we remain convinced that it is also a endorsement, it is another element for the vertebration of the state of autonomy, for a state of strong well-being and that it responds to the expectations of citizens; a new path of stability more consistent with the deficit with which it is going to end the 2018 financial year, which would not imply an excessive restriction on us, but would be appropriate to a downward trend. This commitment, this path of stability also brings value to our agreement with stability and with Europe, but without forcing the activity of the State administration, let alone that of self-government or that of social security, which are the first and most important beneficiaries of this expansion of the spending capacity provided by the new path of stability. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago the majority of this Parliament gave rise to a motion of censure which led to a change of government and did so in order for this country to regain confidence in the institutions, in their democratic quality and in politics, as the instrument for improving people's lives. In these months we have been working very intensively on a shared road map that is allowing us to return lost rights, recover our welfare state and move forward in changing the productive model that this country requires to grow in a sustainable, just and inclusive way. Today we have a new opportunity to tell citizens that the majority of this Parliament wants things to improve, that this is not a sterile debate, on the contrary, talking about the path of stability is also talking about the daily concern of the people of the street, of health, of education, of pensions, of dependence, of infrastructure or of employment opportunities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u6	Therefore, despite the fact that language in these types of interventions is often very technical, it is important for citizens to know that we are talking about 6 billion more so that the state of autonomous well-being can really be revitalized, basically in all those services that have deteriorated after the years of adjustment and, on the other hand, to have the capacity to continue working on the sustainability of the pension system which, as you know, is one of the most important challenges facing this country and is one of the clearest issues on the agenda of this Government. If today this Congress endorses the path proposed by the Executive, we will be sending a rather clear message to the citizenry, a message that dialogue and politics are possible, in the face of noise and confrontation. If your ladies and gentlemen say yes, what they are doing is saying no to those who prefer a Spain in black and white; no, to those who believe that the institutions are theirs, and no, to those who retort the Rules of Procedure to prevent the majority's decision from progressing. Because you will see, ladies and gentlemen, since September we have been waiting for the deadline for amendments to the bill tabled by the majority groups in Congress to correct the situation that was introduced in the Stability Act by granting the Senate the veto capacity, which is only and exclusively given in this situation, and I remind you that it is unfair. It is not understood that a legislative reform proposed by the parliamentary majority represented here in Congress remains, if I may say so, sleeping the dream of the righteous by the blockade of the People's Party and of Citizens, a legitimate vocation of the majority of this House that the law should progress and that the parliamentary process should be completed by returning to Congress, that is, that the right to veto which exceptionally was brought into that law without any justification that would so raise it. It is unfair, ladies and gentlemen, that this process of organic law should not continue and that the majority of the veto in the Senate should therefore be abolished, especially because these 6 billion margins we could count on are intended to be invested, directly and without any doubt, in the improvement of social policies. This is a path of stability that would allow us to have in 2019 a deficit of 1.8% compared to the initially projected 1.3, an additional 5 tenths, of which 2 would go to autonomous communities, which would widen their margin from 0.1 to 0.3, i.e. an additional 25 billion euros for their policies, and another 2 would go to Social Security, which would get a new margin with those 2 tenths more. And as we have approved, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a path for 2020, the deficit target would be 1.1 for all public administrations and for 2021 0.4. It is curious, ladies and gentlemen - I had been meditating on it as I went to the Congress of Deputies - the context of the previous vote and of what is going to happen today. In fact, in July we thought that at least we could try to negotiate this new path because it is based on important financing of autonomy, and you know that the People's Party governs a large part of it. Today we know that some political formations are changing their view of the role that the State of Autonomy represents in the constitutional architecture. Some political parties do not believe in autonomous design, they have never believed in it and now they do not try to conceal it. I would say that to bet, vote, provide sufficient resources to the autonomous communities, that is to say yes to that constitutional architecture of which this country was endowed, where this political and administrative level plays an essential role in the quality of life of people, providing the most important public services that citizens receive to equalize their starting situation: to be equal to the disease; to be equal to the talent; to be able to receive help when one is in a vulnerable situation or to have the capacity to promote a housing policy when people do not have income to afford a rent or to acquire a real estate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u8	But, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that at no point in these forty years of state autonomy, constitutional configuration and vertebration of the country have any arguments been attached to these political formations in favor; rather, some try to cling to the nostalgia of a centralist state. It must be made clear that it is the autonomous communities that make the policies closest to the citizens and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, they must have sufficient resources to be able to reverse the cuts and adjustments that each and every one of them had to strive to make during the years of crisis because of the scarcity of income that resulted from a lower collection. Betting on these autonomous communities and sharing with them this margin of the path is not only the result of a firm and medullary self-conviction, it is above all a clear will on the part of the Government that recovery should reach people, that they feel that we take care of their needs and that we strengthen the structures that support the security mattress, that we are making policies for them and for them, that is, policies for the common good. She listened the other day to Michelle Obama arguing in an interview that it is easy to rule with fear; the really difficult thing, she said, is to envision and give hope to the next generation. Well, this new path and, with it, these budgets that we will be able to present in January, have that vocation, that of returning the illusion to people for a policy that thinks of them above all, that puts them at the centre of political action, a policy that aspires to build a better society, that is what brings us to all of your ladies and gentlemen today in this Chamber, a society where people can have and see guaranteed the rights that assist them. We must re-illusion those generations to come, also the present ones, that a more dignified society is possible, with salaries that allow us to live with relief, make plans for the future, a system that protects and accompanies or makes them careless about the coverage of the basics because they have guaranteed it and in conditions of quality to devote their efforts to the projects they deem appropriate. A path, ladies and gentlemen, which is the foreword to the recovery of some of the rights that we have been discussing over the past few months, to have a greater endowment for dependence and, therefore, that not only the autonomous communities can contribute part of these resources but that they can complement - as the law had a duty to do - 50% of the state, a situation which was withdrawn by the previous government. To have the capacity - as I said - to promote a policy worthy of housing that allows a greater public park, that allows rent aids above all to the younger people; that ultimately does not become a luxury property to which only a few can access and that above all those who start their vital project cannot engage because they simply do not have the conditions to be able to carry it out. A preview of budgets that also bring dignity back to our elderly people and pensions through the revaluation with the CPI of both next year's and 2018's pensions, where, as you know, we have planned by the government to be able to implement an update of the CPI so that in the first quarter of 2019 a compensatory payment can be given that allows to recover part of the purchasing power that the pensioners have lost during these years. Budgets that allow us to reverse the health co-payment that has also been unjustly implemented during the years of crisis, or the ability to lower university fees, to increase scholarships that are directed at students, so that no one stays on the road because their note does not allow them to access basic resources that will allow them to make the quality leap that people make throughout our lives when our training allows us to deal with higher responsibilities and therefore to raise a level on the social scale. In short, ladies and gentlemen, common-sense budgets, logical budgets that allow, as I said, indeed that we can continue on a path of development both personal and collective, on a path of growth that allows us to make further progress. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about politics in capital letters, we have to remember once again that we have to recover citizens, that people have to feel that the government, that Parliament looks at them in the face, that it works for and for them. We have an obligation to make public policies that will improve society; a citizenship that must feel that its rulers are working for it and not just for a few, that we are able to put people's rights, demands and expectations before our immediate electoral revenue or before our electoral calculations, which simply, ladies and gentlemen, lead us not to agree on basic elements that allow us to continue working. That is why we believe that this path is the one that this country needs at this time of economic cycle. And as I mentioned in my previous debate on this, all the international bodies, ladies and gentlemen, all of them, tell us that we are going to end 2018 - and we are about to do so - with a deficit of 2.7% when a budget of 2.2% should have been drawn up. It therefore draws attention to the fact that basically the party responsible for not complying with that path of stability because the budgets were made with other parameters by stealing this data from the whole of this House and from the citizenry, is the party that is opposed to us actually being able to go through a path that allows us to continue to lower our debt and our public deficit but to do so with all the citizens without anyone remaining behind and above all trying to make the policy that is driven from the budget a policy of economic recovery, job creation and growth. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Bank of Spain, the IMF, the OECD, the European Commission or Funcas, all these bodies have already warned that 2018 will result in a deficit of 2.7%, five tenths above the target; five tenths, ladies and gentlemen, which are precisely the tenths that we have transferred to Europe that could not be added to this year. Because if this path is not approved, what they want, fundamentally the People's and Citizens' Party, is for this government to do the task that the People's Party did not do with the 2018 budgets and to add it to the task that we have entrusted for 2019. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u10	In other words, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a question, according to the popular party's voting intention, of what they did not do in 2018 being done in 2019 and, in addition, of the European Commission's efforts for Spain for the following year. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a speech that is not sustained if the country really is at the centre of our political attention, the people who make it up and, therefore, the capacity for us all to move forward. Already then, ladies and gentlemen, the objective set out in the previous budget was to provide that the path of stability that had to be carried forward was not exactly what was approved by Congress. But no new path has been brought to their discussion by the Government, by the previous executive, simply because it preferred not to meet the objective of stability, to squeeze the autonomous communities, to squeeze the municipalities and, therefore, not to recognize the reality of the figures that were so clearly becoming manifest. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has asked us to approve the budget in the terms on which the budget plan was finalised. It is important for your ladies and gentlemen to know that the opposite would be to go to a budgetary extension, to go to a situation of budgets to constant policies, which Europe itself has already found would raise the deficit next year around 2.2 or 2.4. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u11	Quiet, please. Wait a minute, Minister. [[Pause]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that if this path does not go forward, if the budgets behind this path do not go forward, what we would find is a situation for next year, in budgetary extension to constant policies, that would make the deficit for Spain around 2.2 or 2.4, when the path presented by the Executive, the Government, brings it to 1.8 with measures that allow such an adjustment and, therefore, being more in line with the stability objectives set with Europe. The new path negotiated with Europe makes it possible, therefore, to make this leap without moving the commitment of stability to the same percentage in which the deficit is overcome. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of the new path is the failure on the part of the People's Party to comply with the budgets of 2018 which it had previously agreed on; they are bad compliance and, moreover, they do not allow the Spanish Government to make that adjustment to allow us to move forward. I know and know that all the rigorous arguments that all the political forces will make today in defense of the path will not serve a radicalised bloc, because they are not to be agreed, because some in this House are not about to agree, for trading, not even for imbuing themselves with that political responsibility, and therefore I know that they are not up to the point that this situation in Spain requires. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore hope and hope that the majority of the political forces present in the House, for some of the statements that the group spokesmen have expressed these previous days, will be able to give their approval to the path that is being taken today. Even I say to those political groups that have not really been encouraged to give the yes to this new situation of recovery of citizens' rights, as we still have room, that they think so that they can be expressed in the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on one path and the other has been only a few months, but the context in which this new dialogue takes place is far from an abyss from which it occurred just four months ago. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, we need to strengthen today more than ever the discourse on the state of autonomy; we need to transfer to the citizens, to all those who use, need, use - and I hope they are all - public health or public education, which the Government, which the Spanish policy, is prepared, at this time of economic growth, to share, to share, to share, that growth with the vast majority of citizens. That's why, at this new juncture, we all have to express our opinion in a dance that I would say no more masks. There are some who are already openly raising the state's repeal of autonomy, there are other sectors that directly raise the re-centralisation of health or the return of competences in education; a sort of speech, ladies and gentlemen, in which in each vote we are speaking on each issue. If we say yes to EUR 25 billion to the autonomous communities, we are saying that we believe in that consolidation of the autonomous state and that we recognize that health services or educational services once again need a fundamentally economic but also political impulse to enable progress. We have the ability to change people's lives. I believe that the majority of us here, who have come to politics, do so from the conviction that we are bringing in a granite of sand that, together with that of all of us here, will allow us to have a different tone tomorrow in public services or that citizens think that we are talking about their problems in this House, we are dealing with their needs and we have the capacity, or at least we are trying to do so, to meet those expectations. It is millions of citizens, ladies and gentlemen, who are waiting for this House's affirmative response. That is why the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it want to call for policy to put at the centre of our attention, at the centre of our thinking people, their needs, their desires, their strategies, so that among all of us, ladies and gentlemen, we can try to ensure that this country can continue on that path of progress in the recovery of rights, once the macroeconomic indicators tell us about recovery and, therefore, that this reality can reach the citizens after the very important and sustained effort they have made during times of crisis. I finish, Madam President, with a quote from Martin Luther King saying: Cowardly asks the question of whether things are safe, convenience wonders whether it is politically correct, vanity questions whether it is really popular and only consciousness questions whether the decisions we make are correct. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we in this House are faced with this dilemma, whether or not we support a path of stability that puts people at the centre. To support the path is not to support this Government, it is to support a policy that allows, as I said, the rise of the minimum wage, the recovery of pensions or the recovery of our health; in short, it is to support a policy that is really looking at all the people of our country, our compatriots. Luther King himself said: the time comes when one must take a position that is not safe, that is not political, that is not popular, but that one must take it because it is the right one. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this path of stability of the Government because, beyond partisan interests, this path that we are bringing is the right one. You are not giving your vote to this executive but to the well-being of the citizenry, which is of all people and which is our obligation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Píriz Maya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As a preliminary question and before I begin my speech, I would like to denounce on behalf of my group how a fact is going to occur today, the reception by the President of my country giving honors of state to the President of an autonomous community only for obtaining a photo, only to obtain notoriety; while in Catalonia the CoRs are calling for their wide. We want to denounce how the president is surrounded by thousands of agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses and do not know as long as who defends the merchants, the small businessmen of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I rise on behalf of my group to defend our vote against the agreement adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018, which set out the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole and for each of its subsectors for the period 2019-2021, as negative for Spain and the Spanish. It's a cheat agreement; yes, cheat. Look at the dictionary, which defines a trap in one of its meanings as a disguised violation of a law, convention or rule, or way of circumventing it with a view to its own benefit, and that is what they are doing throughout this budgetary process. I know it bothers you that we tell you this, but I'm going to explain to you four reasons why we think so. The first reason is that they cheat on when. Section 15 of the Budget Stability Act says that if Congress rejected the objectives set out in July - as it did - they had a month to forward a new agreement. Not a month, because there have been five; not a new agreement, because they command the same again. You'll think: a budget doesn't ruin an election for us. And just after those elections, in the first Council of Ministers after the Andalusians voted for change, you approve it and send this deficit path back to Congress four months late. Minister, do you care about the law? Do you care about the laws in force? Do you ever intend to respect the Budget Stability Act? He has shown that his party and future in Andalusia matter more than Spain and the Spanish. It's not all right, Minister: four months late. Madam Minister, the second reason is that they cheat too on how much. Your numbers are not believed by anyone in Spain or outside Spain, you or your partners, no matter how much you now vote in favour. They are the same goals as in July, and then they didn't believe them, so a positive vote now can only be interpreted as an opportunistic vote, and I assure you that an opportunistic vote of those who want to break Spain can't be good for everyone, can't be good for our country, good for Spain. [[Applauds]] And no one believes them because they are 6 billion more debt, it means that our state has to borrow and repay 6 billion euros. Don't cheat; it's not extra money, it's additional debt. They do not want to improve people's lives with those 6 billion, they do not want to lower the quotas of the autonomous or reduce taxes to the workers of this country; they want unproductive spending, they want an electoral megacampaign for their leader paid to cleavage by all the Spaniards of now and, worse, by the Spaniards of the future. And all this in a scenario of guys climbing. Did you see what the Fed did again today? No one believes them because they sent Brussels deficit targets that had not been approved by this House. They sent Brussels a draft budget with data based on falsehoods. Third, it's a tricky deal because they've also lied about how. As they are aware of the Budget Stability Act and the balance of majorities in the Senate from the beginning, they proposed to change the law to be able - as some socialist spokesman said - to draw the Senate. Madam Minister, this which you are presenting today to ask for our approval has been presented late and wrong, trying to twist the Budget Stability Act, trying to eliminate the functions of one of the chambers of our General Courts. And they have done it wrong also because they did not have enough with all that, but they also lied by letter to Brussels with an alleged endorsement of the AIReF when, until a week after saying that they had it, there was no report of the AIReF; moreover, it was not exactly positive for their interests either. Do you think the Spaniards are fools? Finally, Minister, they cheat the Spaniards on why. No one believes them, and so they are, minister; so is your party and so is your government. And let us not just say this, says the IMF, that neither the growth they are proposing nor the effort to meet the objectives is believed; says the European Commission, to which they send a budget with a deficit path that is not the pact with them, and return the draft budgets with a historic slap. We are not only saying this, Minister, but also the OECD, that its forecasts are not believed, and also the Bank of Spain, that it doubts the effectiveness of its measures. It is not just us, Minister, that reads the AIReF report, which says that they are going to raise $2 billion less than they expect, and that they are going to spend $400 million more than they expected. Madam Minister, as much as you repeat your mantras do not cease to be phases. Stop saying that these budgets, based on this path of deficit, will end with seven years of suffocation by the PP governments. I remind you that only social spending rose by 26 billion in Spain between 2011 and 2016. We are again bringing here today debt and deficit targets that are bad for Spain and bad for the Spaniards, which will only result in a very expensive election campaign of the socialist government, which will not bring social improvements, and which the Spaniards of today will not notice, but which the next generations will have to pay. The Socialist Party that comes to give us lessons in the management of public accounts is the same one that closed 2011 with more than 100 billion deficits and at 4 points of the established objective. What are you going to teach us, Minister? Exactly what? Will they teach us economic theory who dragged the country into bankruptcy in 1996 and 2011? Lessons you? The People's Party? [[Applauds]] And don't come to me now that the deficit hasn't been met since 2011. Do I remind you how you left the country? Do I remind you of how they sent more than three and a half million Spaniards to the streets? Do I remind you of the gentle deceleration? Do I remind you of how you left this country's risk premium and how you left us all on the verge of intervention? Minister, Margaret Thatcher used to say that socialism fails when you run out of money... from others. You have already ended the money of others - of the Spaniards - a long time ago, and repeating the mistakes of the past looking for a supposed handful of votes is simply a fearlessness. Today they have our negative vote because we are not going to allow them to drag the country back, not with our vote, not in our country. The millions of Spaniards who wake up every morning to make a living don't deserve this. They don't deserve you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u15	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr. Montero Soler has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the government is bringing back the same deficit path that it brought us last July, with the hope - this time - of approving it, and it is bringing it back to us as if nothing had happened since then. What happens is that in these months many things have happened in different areas, but it seems that you have not noticed it, and in fact you have explained it openly in your speech. You have changed, you have changed things in Spain and you have changed things in Europe. I will explain them to you, because it is important to frame the meaning of our vote today. The first change is very evident: you have changed. They have changed since they lost the previous vote because they behaved with the same pride that Felipe González used in the 1980s when he had absolute majority. They came here without having the votes and without having dialogue with any of the political forces that put you in those blue seats. Having a government based on eighty-four Members basically means that you have to talk to each and every one of the forces that put you there to reach agreements. You have to pamper the forces of the motion of censure, and that work belongs to you and not to the rest of the forces. [[Applauds]] You did not understand that in July, and we had no choice but to remind you. Looks like they did. The difference between that month of July and this day of December is that you have had to close a budgetary agreement with us, where you have had to dye social policies - of which you have been filled with your mouth in this speech - that bear our mark and our imprint. All this is the product of our agreement with you and, Minister, that agreement - I have already put it to you from here to the future - is to comply with it and in its terms, not by means of real sweetened decrees where you bring us proposals that do not respond to the meaning and essence of the covenant. We respect the letter of what has been agreed and what has been signed. If that's not what you guys bring here, you're gonna take it back. [[Applauds]] The second issue that has changed is Andalusia. Sounds to you, doesn't it? You have just lost, after thirty-seven years, the government of the Andalusian Junta, and to hear in your voice that it must be said that no to those who believe that the institutions are theirs, and that it must be heard by an Andalusian who then has to go up to the rostrum, is to throw the ball at him. You have been in charge of the Finance and Public Administration Council of practically the last legislature of that government of the Socialist Party in Andalusia. Minister, have you reflected on your contribution, yours, as a Finance Advisor to the defeat of your party in Andalusia? Have you given any thought to the effect that you could have had from the Treasury Board to implement the neoliberal policies that were marked by your preferred government partners? Were you comfortable applying those policies, Minister? We are very pleased that you have changed your fellow travellers after three years of austerity in Andalusia and tax cuts for the rich people who have agreed with Citizens. He has finally seen the light and has taken the right path. However, you know perfectly well, and more so after having made that trip, that the difference in what is happening in this country and in your Government does not mark it neither you nor your party, we mark it and we, do not forget it. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, you do not seem to have understood that in recent months important things have changed in Europe. The entrance thing cries out to heaven. Faced with the deficit targets of the 1,3 proposed by Mr Montoro, of body present in the room, and which meant - when referring one to a living person means that he is present, he has no other connotation - cuts of more than 7.5 billion euros regarding the basic scenario of the European Commission, you go to Brussels after motion of censure, you send Minister Calviño... [[laughs]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u17	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u18	Hold me, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u19	I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u20	... they send Minister Calviño to negotiate on the basis of a recognised deficit target by the European Commission of 1.9 points on gross domestic product, and what they get from that meeting is not that the Commission accepts as its objective what is its own provision, but that it imposes on them one tenth more cut. In Brussels, Mrs Calviño did some negotiation! [[Applauds]] That it has passed from a deficit of 1.3 to 1.8 obviously brings an oxygen balloon of 6 billion euros that no one should despise, and less I believe the People's Party and its citizens' partner who are now going to have to co-rule in Andalusia, and that with those cuts that they wanted at the time, and if this path of deficit is not approved, to see how they go there and tell it now. By the way, they will also explain to me how we are getting married with the speech we are going to hear from Mr Roldán that the superhero of his wettest political dreams, Mr Macron, has told the European Commission that the deficit targets are going to pass this year through the arc of triumph, never better said because he is doing so from Paris, because he has the streets set on fire by people asking them to reverse the cuts in their policies. [[Applauds]] That explains it to us later. I'm finishing up. Of the servility you showed before the Commission by not accepting the Commission's deficit target, and by accepting one tenth more cut and that painful negotiation, you have done what you have done is to leave the field open to fascism so that it is the one who challenges the austerity rules that are currently hurting us in Europe. I only ask you one question, Minister, would it not have been such a trip to Falcon up and down that someone would have thought of making a stopover in Brussels and trying to set up a progressive front in front of the Commission's austerid policies at the moment when growth in Europe does not take off? In short, Mrs Montero, and I finish, you make it very difficult for us. If for what you have done it has to be, we would have to vote you no, but as we have a sense of responsibility and as we are confident and confident that you will comply with the budgetary agreement in your own terms, we will vote in the affirmative, even with your nose covered. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and happy holidays to all of you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, stand up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u21	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u22	Mr. Montero, hello. [[Laughter]] Do you know why yellow vests go out in France? Do you know why they went out on the street? By the way, Mélenchon and Le Pen together. Do you know why they left? For a very similar climb to the diesel you're making. [[Applauds]] Minister, you bring a new path to Congress, new objectives, but they are exactly the same as the previous ones, Mrs Montero. So you can't expect us to answer a different thing; there are others who will change their vote, I imagine that by concessions of some kind or by agreements that have been made in the last few weeks, we won't. And we're not going to support you for three reasons, Mrs. Montero. First, because they are budgets that put the Spanish economy at risk. We are the economy with the second highest deficit in the European Union, we are an economy that has almost one hundred percent debt on GDP, and you have brought accounts that I do not believe, not that I do not believe them Citizens, it is that no one believes them, Mrs Montero, no one believes them, neither the European Commission nor the IMF nor anyone believes them. [[Applauds]] We went to the economic office and made a projection of where the diversion would go and after a few weeks came out numbers very similar to that of the other institutions. It's 5.5 billion from 1.3 to 1.8 plus 4.5 billion, which is to inflate the income they expect from taxes. So 10 billion diversion in an environment, Mrs Montero, very delicate. In Europe we have Italy, with enormous weaknesses for political and economic reasons, precisely because we do not adjust and do our duties when it comes to them; we have an open trade war in the world because of Trump and because of those who defend closed economies, such as the party that accompanies him in his budgets; we have an environment in Europe of economic slowdown, all growth indicators are also slowing down, job creation is slowing down, and in Spain what we need is to make structural reforms, Mrs Montero, what we need is, if we want to be able to continue spending, to make reforms. I was saying that, first, we are not going to support them for the detour of 10 billion; secondly, because these budgets - I understand that because, moreover, because they have the invaluable support of Mr Montero and his parliamentary group - are good at one thing, and that is that they go up to seven taxes. And the best thing is that they come to tell us - and they repeat it in addition; today I think they have repeated it again - that they will not affect the middle and working class. But what are the fifteen million people who are going to have a rise in diesel or one and a half million people who are also going to have a rise in social contributions of 22%? How do you like that? Isn't that the working middle class, Mrs. Montero? [[Applauds]] And thirdly, because these budgets spend more, but they do not address any reform that will sustain this increase in spending in the future. You are not capable of reforming the institutions, because what you have done has been exactly the same as the People's Party, colonizing them with more politicians; you are not capable of reforming education, because what you have done has been to boost the educational pact; you are not capable of reforming the labour market, because what you do is to reproduce the models of the twentieth century, almost the same as those of the People's Party. Therefore, it is very unlikely that we will be able to meet the increase in expenditure in the future. There's a very important diversion. What does the European Commission say? That you're going to stay at 2.2%. It's a terrible sign for the markets. Mrs Montero, there is no less progressive policy than irresponsible fiscal policy, and I will tell you why. If you suddenly lose credibility, if you suddenly, by complying with Podemos and by complying with Torra, lose credibility, then the Spaniards, instead of spending our money in hospitals, in improving education or in making social policies, we will spend it paying higher debt interest rate. There is a different way; it is possible to do it differently, Mrs Montero. We were able to meet the objectives, we were able to lower taxes to three million mileurist workers - redistributive social policy -. [[Laughs from the Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado]] Yeah, yeah, laugh. You get them up, we get them down. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: That's a lie]] To three million milleurists we managed to lower taxes, and at the same time we made social policy, and we made it very ambitious by the way. Salary supplement, Mrs Montero, for half a million young people; I do not know what you have done for young people so far. [[Applauds]] Flat rate for self-employed people, Mrs Montero; I do not know what you have done for self-employed people, apart from raising taxes on them. [[Applauds]] We extend paternity leave: three weeks in a year and a half; I don't know what you have done for equality, apart from talking. [[Applauds]] We will not support them because they do not comply with our European partners; we will not support them because they do not comply with the effort that Spain needs to make right now; we will not support them because they are up to seven taxes; we will not support them because they do not reform anything, because they are unable to reform and tackle the fundamental problems; we will not support them because we have shown that there is a different way. You, Mrs. Montero, are a good economist who comes from Keynesian tradition. It's okay to be Keynesian, Mrs. Montero, it's okay, but it has to be in both parts of the cycle. You have to save in the expansive periods to be able to spend when you're in trouble. If you spend in the high period of the cycle, then it happens what has happened to Spain in recent years: that you have to make cuts and austerity after, when it is harder to do so. The fundamental problem of these budgets - and I conclude with this, Madam President - is that they have an impossible majority, because this legislature is not viable, because you depend on Mr Torra, and because you depend on a party like We can make you an economic policy that is exactly the opposite of what this country needs. Let me finish with a quick comment. You have quoted Martin Luther King, and tomorrow you are going to meet the most racist guy in Spain, who is Mr. Torra, in Catalonia. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u23	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister, deputies and deputies. We will vote in favour of the government's spending ceiling proposal. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u26	One could say that we do it because of the Christmas spirit that seems to invade us these last few days, but we do it so that in Catalonia we can share the elevator again, because the other day Mr. Married told us that because of the independenceists in Catalonia there are people who do not share the elevator. [[Applauds]] But no, let's get serious. We are voting in favour of knowing that this spending ceiling will not go ahead and that it will fall when debate in the Senate over the blocking of the absolute majority of the PP, and that it will surely make sense to debate the path of the deficit and negotiate it when the Budget Stability Act has been amended and the article referring to the Senate has been deleted. A modification that is certainly blocked by the parliamentary filibusterism of PP and Citizens. Gentlemen of the Government and gentlemen of the PSOE, we are voting in favour of another gesture of goodwill, to launch a message of goodwill, a message that says that we must not break the few, we have few bridges left not to break the fine, very fine thread of dialogue with the Government. The Government of the Generalitat asks us to do this perhaps - perhaps - last gesture, and we do it, and we do it with conviction. We have made other major gestures, I would say enormous, such as voting for the motion of censure in exchange for nothing, because we understand that as Democrats, as Republicans and as a leftist party, it was our duty to expel from the government the most corrupt party in Europe, the party responsible for sending 10,000 police and civilian guards to beat up defenceless people who only wanted to vote on 1 October. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yeah, yeah. We have also passed real social decrees that seemed insufficient and unbraved to us, but we did so if they were to improve even a little bit people's lives. What have we received in return? Depends. And it depends on what? Of the Andalusian elections, because just as before the Andalusian elections we saw a government and a PSOE asking us for support for parliamentary initiatives and our votes for the General Budgets of the State, and it was customary to establish a more or less fluid dialogue, after the Andalusian elections things have changed. I do not know whether it is because they have bought the opinion of some of their leaders and deputies that they also remain in the Government with the support of the Catalan parties awaken fascism. Quite a paradox, isn't it? In a country where there is no way to remove the fascist mummy from the Valley of the Fallen, even though the majority of this Parliament, representative of popular sovereignty, has decided so; in a country where tens of thousands of Republicans and anonymous Republicans are buried in the counties, without their families knowing where to go to mourn them, it turns out that in this country it is we anti-fascists who awaken fascism. What a paradox! What a paradox! [[Applauds]] The truth is that after the Andalusian elections we saw a President Sánchez making an appearance in the debate about Catalonia who could have signed a deputy or a deputy of Citizens. Probably not Albert Rivera on his most ultra days, but a citizen's deputy does. Well, even so, now that they don't like our vows so much, we make a gesture of goodwill. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State is a deep, ancient conflict and one of opposition to two different legitimacys, that of the State, which wants to remain united, and that of a Catalonia, which feels like a nation - a large majority of its population thinks so, even Mr Borrell, imagine - and, as such, as a nation, wants to decide its future. In the face of this conflict there are two ways of acting, the first of which is that of Mr Rajoy, Mr Casado, Mr Aznar and Mr Abascal. We already know her: To get them, fucks, cops, judges, Penal Code, 155 hard and indefinite, jail and exile. If you want, you can do the same, you can cover reality with repression, but when you open your eyes, the more than two million independenceists will still be there and maybe we'll be even more. The second is the path of dialogue, negotiation and agreement, which is preferred by the great majority of Catalans and I am sure that the great majority of Spaniards too. It's probably the hardest way, but we want to do it. We've been sitting at the dialogue table for a long time and we'll be there until the last day. Let us sit down, dialogue, reach points of agreement and consensus that do not expel either side and after the citizens decide. As Seneca said, "Believe me, you holy East-speaking people." Believe me, the language of the people is sacred. As long as this scenario does not arrive, our proposal already knows it: freedom, absolution and self-determination. I'm done, President. We will vote in favour, aware that this gesture for us is going to have costs, but we do so convinced that we are still in time. Maybe we're facing the last chance. By Republican Left you won't stay, here you have our gesture. Gentlemen of the PSOE, now the ball is on your roof. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u27	Quiet. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that photographs cannot be taken in the Chamber, except by the media professionals, and less can they take photographs of their lordships to the rostrums. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u28	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. Madam Minister, today we again debate for your approval the proposal put forward by your Government as early as July. I am already telling you that our group is going to maintain the position adopted in July because we understand that the economic circumstances are virtually the same, albeit with some variation in the low level of economic growth. As we have already said, the flexibility of the objective will allow policies to be better adapted and to a greater extent to the economic reality, to the citizenry, in short, will generate real and satisfactory expectations. We believe that these objectives need to be discussed and, if necessary, approved in order to give a sign of stability and responsibility, as they would allow us to draw up these figures and discuss the draft budgets of the new Government and, therefore, also to set the positions of each group, although we fear that these objectives will not be supported in the Senate by the absolute majority of the PP. We said that it was an anomaly, considering that this debate on spending ceilings and setting stability targets should also be governed by the same regime applicable to the rest of the laws in the General Courts. For this group, this is a macro-debate, which must subsequently be implemented in concrete policies through the budget, budgetary policy, since monetary policy resides in Europe. It is to this scenario that this group will wait to position itself with regard to the actions announced by its Government, we will not do so in this debate, which for some is due more to ideological than economic positions and with a also short-term vision of politics, whose aim is that political decisions will benefit their parties quickly rather than society. I would like to make it clear that voting in favour of this path does not mean giving this group a blank cheque for the approval of the budget if it is finally presented because, among other things, part of the agreements of the draft general budget for 2018 to which the current government committed are still pending implementation. But it does mean giving a margin of confidence to a Government that is the result of the motion of censure and to which we believe that we must leave an open door to see if it is able to promote the balance between public accounts and more equitable economic growth. In short, what we are talking about here today is trying to ensure that a draft budget can be discussed with new objectives that can give the possibility of making other policies that society is demanding in the face of globalised changes, a society that, let us not forget, is demanding solutions that are different from those that have already been applied. I would also like to remind you that the proposed adjustment is consistent with what the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been calling for in this House in previous years and that it seems that it will take place on the revenue side, through the modification of tax figures, avoiding cuts in public expenditure in order to try to comply with the measures that have been announced. Although we are going to vote in favour of this path, I repeat again the assessments I made in July. The new targets are better than those of 2018, also in line with one of our main criticisms of the consolidation path agreed with the European Union to accompany deficit reduction with growth. However, we continue to believe that the distribution of deficit targets among subsectors is arbitrary, does not meet an economic criterion and is also symmetrical, which does not take into account the relative position of each sector, autonomous communities, local entities and, specifically, in the case of outlying communities, does not take into account their fiscal autonomy, which allows them to make spending decisions financed by the increase in taxes they regulate. On the other hand, these objectives continue to fail to comply with the first transitional provision of the Stability Act, whereby the distribution of objectives has to be made taking into account the structural deficit of each administration as of 1 January 2012. Therefore, targets that appear to be inadequate for each sector continue to be set, as some will be able to meet them loosely, while others will hardly succeed, and so has the AIReF. It does not seem prudent to continue with deficit targets that systematically fail the State and Social Security, at the cost of compliance and overcompliance of the autonomous communities and local entities, taking into account that these significant deviations in the objectives by subsectors could generate medium-term problems and would be evident in the event of a less favourable economic situation. We therefore believe that there is a need to set sectorally differentiated targets. Although they make the deficit target more flexible for each administration and thus grant these more oxygen to implement those policies that affect the well-being of citizens - that is through greater indebtedness -, it must not be forgotten that many administrations have a surplus and do not need more debt, but that what they request is a reform of the interpretation of the spending rule, which is what definitely prevents the autonomous communities and municipalities from using that available surplus. You yourself in your appearance declared yourself autonomous and today you have also defended autonomy, and said that who is currently questioning the territorial architecture in the area of consolidation of the state of autonomy is questioning the welfare state, because it is these that are providing citizens with the services closest to their needs, and argued that the spending rule has limited the margin of action of municipalities and autonomous communities, and that it has not been applied at the appropriate time of the cycle. However, I have to say that we do not see in the macro table significant variation in that reference rate to the expenditure rule. In the current situation, we believe that, once the deficit and debt targets have been met by public administrations, all savings or surpluses generated should be devoted to meeting the needs of citizens, improving public services, and actions that generate quality and wealth employment. It is true that you have announced to us a relaxation of that spending rule at a later time and we hope and hope that it will be so and that it will not be a failed attempt again, as happened with the previous Government. On the other hand, as we have already said, it seems that the path chosen to achieve this deficit objective is the path of income, through the modification of existing taxes and the creation of new tax figures. In the event of reform of the tax system, we agree that it should be comprehensive and progressive, that it operates in the long term and that it has as a priority both the incentive of economic activity, avoiding any distorting effect on growth, and the sufficient income to maintain expenditure and social cohesion. In this respect, our group is in favour of working together as soon as debates and decisions on the reform of the tax system take place, but that is true, from the basic principle of strict respect for our fiscal self-government and our regulatory capacity, so in the case of new taxes, we ask for their concertation in the Joint Committee on Concertation. As far as the spending ceiling is concerned, it is higher, by the way, a condition that some parties have been demanding. This is because the agreed deficit is higher than previously foreseen and because it implies this rise in taxes, but we must not forget that, in the end, the setting of the expenditure ceiling is a management instrument. A higher level of income will therefore allow a higher level of expenditure. This necessarily means that an accurate estimate must be made in the collection, not only through new taxes, but also through the control of tax fraud. We are aware that we are in a complex situation where the decisions to be taken are also complex, but my group asks you, Minister, to be aware of the above aspects in this complex environment. For this reason, and with these qualifications, our group, as I have already said, is going to vote in favour. We appreciate that, in a climate of bilaterality and mutual institutional respect, we can have the opportunity to bring positions closer to achieving a much more rational application of the rules and adjusted to the social and economic reality itself. Furthermore, we are aware of the limitations of European governance in the current context and of the need for such political and economic stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u29	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not going to make a review of what has changed or has not changed since July. Some things have changed, something has moved, little from our perspective. They did begin the process of amending the Budget Stability Act, which we demanded of them, albeit with little success. Today we are going to vote yes to these deficit targets and to this path of spending, and we are doing so according to the criteria of the Government of the Generalitat, which wants to have these 2 tenths, which are not the ones for it, it would be more for it. These 2 tenths allow 470 million euros more expenditure to the Generalitat. But the Generalitat no longer wanted this debt. If it had a fair and equitable financing system, the Generalitat would not ask for this new deficit target. If I didn't have a tax deficit of 16 000, 15 000 or 10 billion - I'm not going to discuss it - I wouldn't want these 2 tenths of spending. If the various governments of the State had fulfilled their financial commitments to the Generalitat de Catalunya, they would not need them today either. In any case, the situation is what it is and we are going to vote in favour and to have these EUR 470 million available in the Generalitat. And if we do not have them, it will be for the People's Party and for Citizens. Therefore, when Citizens and the People's Party demand in the Parliament of Catalonia more money for public officials, more money for mossos, more money for doctors, know that this money will have been taken away from you, you and you. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] And the Socialist Party is also going to be responsible, because if these deficit targets cannot be met it is because they have not done their job well. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous, I have listened to them and they have said many barbarities, even Mr Roldán has spoken of a guy in Catalonia who is called Torra, who I don't know who he is, because President Torra, as much as it hurts them, is president not uncle, to see if he finds out. [[Applauds]] In any case, Minister, it is your responsibility to manage these new deficit targets. We are aware of what we do, we told him in July, we reach out to him, this hand he collects when he is interested or as he is interested, and now we reach out to him again in this sense. But let no one be mistaken, this is not the foreword of a yes to budgets. [[Rumors]] The foreword to a yes to the budgets is a proposal for a political solution in Catalonia, and this proposal does not simply go through a new statute. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I was deluded to think that the representative of the People's Party, when he came up to the rostrum, was going to denounce the fascist attacks that we have suffered at the headquarters of Alicante both the Socialist Party and Podemos and Compromís. Illusioned me. You can see that you always draw the line too far to the right. I wanted to begin by saying that Compromís is a political force with a high state, with a responsible and coherent transformational vocation. We were the first to put government pacts of change on the table and we were also the first to talk about a motion of censure. I say this because you and we should have shared at least the courage, the illusion, the determination and the conviction of change already in July and until a couple of days ago it did not seem that you shared with us at least two goals and one method. First objective, the priority of solving the greatest territorial inequality, which is the one suffered by the Valencian Community. Secondly, the lack of political impetus by this Government in the area of territory. And one method, the recognition of dialogue with us to solve these problems. We welcome the fact that you have rectified, we welcome the fact that you have agreed to recognise that there is an investment deficit that is fraught with the Valencian economy and that it needs to be addressed. We have had time to address this problem and we will have time to address the other problems that also exist, but precisely because a channel of dialogue has been opened, we are not going to block, we are not going to be a brake so that the most important budgets and issues can continue to be discussed. Only through dialogue and mutual recognition can we move this country forward. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u33	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u34	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. I think it is up to me today to disagree with most of those who have spoken before me because we still think that we are in the same place as in July, because the Government is resubmitting the same proposal for a spending ceiling but also without having made efforts, at least with all the formations, to talk and reach agreements. Because, Minister, you speak of a pact, but before the pact comes the dialogue and for that we must speak, and of course with this group you have not spoken since July. They have promoted the reform of the law so that the Senate does not have the right to veto and we have supported it because we considered it necessary to do so, although the fact that the process of reform itself is being prolonged cannot be too long. But it has hardly changed anything else in this time. Unfortunately, therefore, our position cannot change. As we told you in July, the easing of the deficit target is not enough reason for this because the substantial remains the same. It does not take into account our territorial and economic reality, it imposes a deficit that does not respond to it, since our starting point is better, and this is done on the basis of a law of stability that goes against our competences and autonomy, which limits the possibilities of local institutions to respond to the social needs of citizens. That is why we continue to insist on the need for an equal to equal relationship, a real bilaterality, which is not simply to accept the deficit limit that you have previously decided. In addition, an example has been given at this time of this lack of bilaterality and subordination to the present state, what happened with the investment plan of the Government of Nafarroa, which had planned to invest 130 million returned for the improper recovery of the state, which approved an investment plan for it and which you, the Spanish Government, have only authorized to spend a third of... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u36	...the rest somehow link it to the negotiation of the year 2019. We understand that without moving a finger to get support you hardly get position changes. Perhaps that is what you are looking for with the budget, which is not approved and can make a story; you will know. What we want to make clear from Euskal Herria Bildu is that it will not change its position without further change, it will not do so just for fear of the possible arrival of the most reactionary right-wing government, and of course anyone who wants its support will have to dialogue. Look, I haven't given you any other conditions, I've given you the condition of speaking and dialogue because that's what can lead us all to change positions, to have other positions and to say one thing today and tomorrow the other within a coherence and a line. That is our position today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister of Finance, last July I rejected the government's objective of budgetary stability, which in general terms does not differ from what you presented this morning, which will lead to a shift towards the disarray that by the hand of its socialist predecessors dragged us into a brutal crisis, to the loss of many millions of jobs, to the rampant impoverishment of society and, in constitutional terms, in 2011 to the dizzying reform of Article 135, which, by the way, I voted against, unlike the Socialist Party and a Member of its bench, Pedro Sánchez, who now declares himself repentant. On the other hand, the Government remains committed to non-compliance with the mandate of solidarity and territorial balance, which harms Asturias because we are discriminated against precisely in the face of communities such as Catalonia, which are in non-compliance with and beneficiaries of the Government's à la carte funding. I take for granted the same arguments I made at that plenary session on 27 July. Although, I do not resist to denounce before Congress the lack of respect of its correspondents of the City of Gijón, in which I live, claiming to its mayor, at the time also president of my party, to exercise all its political influence and try to change the meaning of my vote in this matter, as it is. I had to acknowledge receipt of the letter I received with such unusual proposal. [[Show a document]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we Members are not fighters. Has no one explained to his colleagues that the members of the General Courts are not subject to a mandatory mandate? Please tell them to review article 62 of the Constitution and stop being ridiculous. It may be normal for you to operate as a political commissioner; it may be normal for you to disregard the programme. It is not our case; Forum committed to meeting the criteria of budgetary stability before the voters, and I support that mandate of the voters today by voting freely and against. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u40	Thank you, Madam President. We are not going to vote on these budgets because you, for taking a picture of President Sánchez with Mr Torra today, are able to make a decision that represents a very expensive price that the canaries are going to pay. They don't have scruples. On Friday last week the road agreement with the Canary Islands had to be signed. By surprise it paralyses, and forty-eight hours after taking the agreement the Council of Ministers on Friday suppress hundreds of millions of euros from what has been agreed with the Canary Islands. We were surprised because we had the ministry document approved over a month ago! We didn't understand anything. But today The Economist unveils it. [[Shows a press clipping]] The Economist's front page: 'Guiño de Sánchez a Catalunya: 200 million for roads'. Second question, this week more than fifteen agreements with the Canary Islands of the 2018 state budgets had to be signed, which were pending; EUR 476 million: cost agreement; educational infrastructure agreement; subsidies for water in the agricultural sector; aid for children's teams coming to the championship peninsula; Valleseco beach; rehabilitation of Las Chumberas. And, all of a sudden, communication from the ministries saying they don't have the Ministry of Finance's authorization to sign the agreements, 476 million. Of course, the Canarian Socialist Party, its Secretary General, Ángel Víctor Torres, and the Socialist Members and Senators will be silent, but neither the farmers nor the employers nor the trade unions nor this Member will be silent. Is the price of a photo worth more than the rights of the canaries? You are sending the message that you have to be independent, that you have to raise a society, that you have to be irresponsible to have the rights and the financing, you have sold to Canarias for a photo. It does not deserve that neither my land nor, of course, this country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u41	For the same group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, a proposal from the Spanish Government is coming to the House today which has the particularity of leading to melancholy, because, apart from the fact that it is recognized that there is a need to change direction and that the restrictive budgetary policy imposed by the European Union has only led to more inequality, more poverty and enormous social suffering, it is time to correct the deficit targets upwards. [[The Lord]] It is also true that we know that this in the Senate is not going to prosper, which is why it leads to melancholy. And another key issue is that until the Budget Stability Act is amended, the last decision of the Senate, which is a democratic anomaly, is corrected and local corporations, the autonomous communities that meet the deficit targets, can use their full surplus to meet the enormous needs of the population, this issue will always be incomplete. Therefore, the change of direction seems good to us. Now, I will tell you one thing, and it is very important that there be new budgets, but it is also extremely important to comply with the previous ones. When Nueva Canarias supported the motion of censure in favour of Mr Pedro Sánchez, we only asked them to make a commitment to respect the commitments made with the Canary Islands in the State's General Budgets and we need to fix this issue, because December is over and it would not be reasonable not to do so. We are making a huge effort to get this understood, we are making a huge effort to correct budget lines, because it is really incomprehensible that they should not be implemented, given that this implies non-compliance with the budget law. Therefore, apart from the fact that the yes we are going to give them now means that we agree with the change in trend, the other is urgent to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the Citizens' Party and of the People's Party, the only thing they have come here today, has been to lack the truth. All they do is lie, because they say that what we approve today means increasing the deficit. They lie. We propose to lower the deficit. [[Applauds]] They say we're going to increase the debt. They lie. We cut the debt. [[Applauds]] In addition, we will be able to present budgets that increase the attention and improvement of public services to citizens, which is what interests people, and not the partisan discussion to which you lead us. [[Show different graphs]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're lying. I cannot answer each of the falsehoods that you have said - the President does not allow it because I do not have time - but of course, with these objective facts, which are objective facts, they are discredited, and the discussion on this issue is over. [[again show the graphs]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u45	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u46	We are therefore going to what we are dealing with, which is what we have come to today, because today, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the second time on the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt which were already put to the vote in July here in Congress, and which, in fact, having been rejected at the first moment, Article 15 of the Act on budgetary stability - we comply with the law, gentlemen of the People's Party - provides that a new agreement must be referred by the Government to the same procedure, and that is what we are doing. In accordance with this procedure today we have the opportunity for the parliamentary groups in this House to speak again about whether or not we want a new path of consolidation that is more responsive to the needs of citizens and more realistic than that envisaged in the Stability Plan of the People's Party Government. And that is what the Government proposed in July and that is what it is doing again today, an adaptation of the objectives to the reality that Rajoy has always hidden. All the bodies, all of them, had doubts that with Rajoy's budget, and with Mr Rivera, the target of 2.2% for 2018 could be met, and we are expected to end up with a deficit of 2.7%, so this 0.5% deviation is the one that applies to the targets set for the coming years. Therefore, when the People's Party and Citizens speak of a lack of credibility, they must refer to theirs, to which they generated with their budget, a budget that failed to meet the objectives, which included many promises without the necessary endowment or regulation to carry them out; a budget, ladies and gentlemen, for using the same qualification as the People's Party. [[applause]] Here the only cheaters are you. [[Applauds]] In the face of such a trap, ladies and gentlemen, we have one more reason why new budgets should be adopted: if some items have not been implemented, it is not because of the Socialist Government's unwillingness, but because of the errors in the budget itself and its traps. It would therefore not be a bad thing if before accusing others of taking on their own responsibilities, their own inheritance and recognizing their own mistakes; today we have learned that the Citizens' Economic Office has much to do with those mistakes. That's it! It is good enough to whitewash the policy of the People's Party, because at the end of the day you are simply the same and have no problem in changing your mind when you want, because that is what you do: we are not going to support Vox, but Vox supports us. [[applause]] Indeed, you have no problem. There has been no year in which the People's Party has respected the path of stability approved previously, and this year, as was the usual rule of the house, they would have had to do it again; now, as there has been a change of government, what the People's Party prefers is to opt for irresponsibility, for institutional blockade, to prevent its modification. Something they should have done, now they don't want to do it anymore. Better to support us Montero than the support you gave Montoro. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, have no doubt, the path proposed by the Government was and is responsible, allows us to continue to reduce the country's public deficit and public debt so as not to burden future generations with more debts, but, moreover, it is more realistic, because it has a more accurate starting point. The government is proposing a deficit of 1.8%, which is lower than we will actually have this year, which is expected to be 2.7% and which is not as strict as Rajoy had envisaged: 1.3%, by 2019. It is a path that involves fulfilling the commitments made to Europe and, at the same time, having the fiscal margin to put people at the centre of priorities, a margin that translates into more resources for the autonomous communities and for Social Security - a total of EUR 6 billion more - which will allow the Government to draw up a more social budget and allow the autonomous communities to have more resources. Are they going to prevent Andalusia from having €338 million more? Are you going to prevent Castile and Leon from having 124 million more euros? Are you going to stop Galicia from having a budget of 133 million more? Are you going to stop the Murcia Region from having another €66 million? Go and explain why they are voting today that they do not, go and explain it; explain why they are going to block this path, why they are going to prevent the autonomous communities from having more resources. [[applause]] Look what's happening in France. Even Europe has just allowed them to make their deficit target more flexible, even in spite of reaching the excessive deficit. They must understand that it is important to ensure balanced accounts, but it is much more important to ensure social cohesion, the effective provision of services to citizens and to restore the rights lost during the crisis. The Citizens Party engages in a hard speech against the Government, without realizing that what they are doing is really being hard on the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. It's everyone's responsibility. The path of stability proposed today by the Government and already proposed in July is an explicit commitment to social cohesion and the well-being not only of today's citizens, but also of tomorrow's citizens. It is therefore the responsibility of everyone, of each of us, and I appeal to you to exercise this responsibility today with your vote. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u48	We continue with the debate on the next item on the agenda, which concerns the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2018 of 7 December 2018 of urgent measures to boost economic competitiveness in the sector of industry and trade in Spain. To present the royal decreeley, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u49	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] I compare for the first time before the plenary of this House for consideration... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u50	Wait a minute, minister, wait a minute. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u51	I compare for the first time before the plenary of this House to submit for its consideration the validation of the Royal Decree Law 20/2018, of 7 December, of urgent measures for the promotion of economic competitiveness in the sector of industry and trade in Spain, after its approval by the Council of Ministers on 7 December. As you know, from the very first moment I came to the ministry, as I announced in my first appearance in this House, my top priority is to increase the weight of industry in our economy and, at the same time, to modernise the productive fabric of this country. It is a goal shared by all parliamentary groups, and I am convinced that if we work together, together, we will be able to increase the weight of industry to 20% of GDP, which is the target set by the European Union for 2020. We are currently defining the strategic framework for industrial Spain 2030, which includes fifteen sectoral agendas and includes short- and medium-term measures to increase industrial competitiveness, boost industry's adaptation to 4.0, also boost the growth and development of industrial SMEs and deepen the generation of quality employment. We also want to bring to this House, as I committed myself to the appearance I had, a new industry law that updates the existing one, which, as you know, dates back to 1992 and therefore does not respond to the challenges that our industry has today. It is a necessary law to strengthen industry in this country and will undoubtedly be agreed with all parliamentary groups. [[The lady]] This government has a vocation of dialogue and active listening, and the first thing we did nothing more to reach the ministry was to hold both the Sectoral Conference of Industry and SMEs, which - as you know - is a meeting point with the autonomous communities to coordinate and agree actions in support of industry, such as the State Council of the SME, a forum that allows us to coordinate policies and actions with economic and social actors and also with the private sector. As I said, the Government is working in a coordinated manner with the rest of public administrations and also with the private sector, because the objective we are pursuing is shared. Increasing the weight of industry in this country is undoubtedly a state policy and I therefore share the view that parliamentary groups can contribute a great deal to the debate that we are having. [[Rumors]] I want to make a very quick analysis of what measures this Government has taken over the past seven months. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u52	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u53	First of all, I would like to highlight the call for the Connected Industry 4.0 programme, which, as you know, supports the digitisation of the industrial fabric and therefore enables us to address this very important challenge in order to make our industry a more competitive sector. We have also approved the Industrial Competitiveness Reindustrialization and Strengthening Programme 2018, known as the Reindus programme, with €400 million, which aims to promote the industrial development of our country and the creation of jobs through the improvement of business and the efficiency of the productive sectors. Two sectoral agendas have also been presented that are developed in collaboration with companies, such as the Aeronautics Industry Agenda and the Cement Agenda, two agendas that are in addition to two others that were already approved by the previous government in 2017, which are the Automotive and Paper Agenda, of a total of fifteen agendas that will form the framework of industrial Spain 2030. We have also approved the payment of EUR 84 million in aid for the compensation of CO2 costs, which certainly prevent the relocation and transfer of production to other countries, something very important at this time, because, as you know, we have some industrial crises in which we are working very intensively and, above all, because the will of this government, which is undoubtedly shared by all the groups, is to create opportunities for industry, and this is what we are dealing with in our daily work; industrial crises like that of Vestas, which, as you know, we have resolved with an agreement with the Steel Network Group, which will allow us to maintain industrial activity in the facilities of Vestas in the province of León, in Villadangos del Páramo, and which therefore gives a stability horizon to hundreds of families of workers who, in the face of the uncertainty of the closure of Vestas, see their work and, ultimately, their life horizon threatened. Finally, the Government has adopted the royal decree that we are now subject to validation. It has been an intense work, ladies and gentlemen, which undoubtedly strengthens the industrial sector of our country and will continue in the coming months, because Spanish industry is facing great challenges and we must set up a 21st century industrial policy that will enable us to deal with them successfully. We need a strong industry, and in that we are all sure to agree, a sustainable industry in our country, and the public authorities have to accompany the various industrial activities in their adaptation to these disruptive changes. The industry is currently experiencing an unprecedented model change due to the emergence of new technologies, such as the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence or 3D printing. This is very relevant if we want to anticipate the challenges ahead, and programs like Connected Industry 4.0 put us at the forefront so that our industry can successfully adapt to these challenges; a program in which we will continue to deepen so that it really has the scale that our industry needs right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the collaboration between the public and private sectors, as well as the joint work we are doing with all the public administrations, also with the economic and social actors in this country and, without doubt, with the parliamentary groups, is essential at the moment to attract viable and sustainable investments and projects for the development of the industrial sector in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u54	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u55	I am now going to develop the content of the legislative initiative brought by the Government to validate, a real decree that undoubtedly has a vocation to improve the competitiveness of industry and trade and, in particular, the productivity of the Spanish economy. To this end, a number of measures are set out which, as I say, promote the competitiveness of the industrial sector through various factors, such as the improvement of labour productivity - very important - the reduction of the energy cost - which we will now be talking about - and the strengthening of industrial security. Ladies and gentlemen, all these actions must be undertaken as a matter of urgency in order to avoid the loss of competitiveness of Spanish industry leading to a disadvantage in international markets. There are also a number of mechanisms that ensure an orderly and fair transition for the industrial sector. Firstly, as you know, partial retirement is regulated with the simultaneous conclusion of a relay contract in the manufacturing industry, a measure that will ensure the financial sustainability of social security as well. The relay contract is a necessary measure to ensure the continuity of employment and is undoubtedly a flexibility tool that will allow for the renewal of the workforce in the manufacturing industry, particularly in the automotive sector, where they know this initiative was born. But the will of this government has been to expand this demand from the automotive sector so that the entire manufacturing industry can benefit from a rejuvenation of the staffing needed to ensure the competitiveness of our sector. This measure, as I said, is urgent, because, as you know, if it is not adopted, the extension that is currently ending on 31 December 2018 will enter into force. The extraordinary and urgent need for this measure is certainly justified; in fact, if it cannot be approved, from 1 January the completion of the extension will make very restrictive the use of the relay contract and there will be many industries, not only in the automotive sector, but in the manufacturing sector as a whole that will not be able to benefit from a contract that at the moment allows rejuvenation of the templates and, therefore, modernise our plants so that they can compete in a very complicated global market. It is also a measure that has a very positive impact on all the autonomous communities. The important thing, therefore, is to address it in order to achieve a shared objective, which is to maintain industrial activity in this country and, above all, to ensure the maintenance of employment. In the face of the major challenges facing our industry, it is important to start taking steps to ensure that industry and, in particular, manufacturing continue to be competitive and sustainable in the future. Undoubtedly the relief contract will help significantly to ensure that this transition takes place fairly in the production processes. Secondly, the real decree that is being debated today in this House sets out a series of measures to mitigate the effects of high energy costs on the competitiveness of the industrial sector in accordance with Community legislation. The approved measures in support of the electro-intensive industry recognize the uniqueness of the companies, which are large consumers of electricity, and give them a special status that will allow them, first of all, to reduce the energy bill, with the consequent saving of costs for the production process; a saving that will result in an objective that the Government has and that is undoubtedly shared by the whole industry and by all the parliamentary groups, which is the remarkable improvement of competitiveness, something that will hear me throughout my intervention. The electro-intensive industry will have more stability and greater certainty in planning future investments, and this is a new guarantee for the maintenance of productive activities and especially employment in these companies. This is a measure that will have a special impact on all those autonomous communities that have the largest productive units of electrointensive industries; I would like to point out, among others, Asturias, Galicia or the Basque Country, where the largest productive units of these industries are currently concentrated. I would like to point out that all the parliamentary groups unanimously - it is very important - signed in this House and also in the Senate an institutional declaration in support of the workers of the plants in Alcoa, in Avilés and A Coruña, in which the Government was urged to provide security and to allow all the electro-intensive companies to compete on equal terms with the rest of the factories at international level. With this measure, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is responding to this request and creating the conditions for no further industrial crises, and certainly for resolving the current ones, as is the case with Alcoa, in which we are also working both in the Ministry of Industry and in the Ministry of Labour so that very soon we will have a solution to this and other crises that, as you know, we are dealing with. The electro-intensive industry is a strategic industry, an industry, ladies and gentlemen, in which the cost of electricity supply can reach up to 50% of its productive costs - the European Union has recognised this - and it is therefore necessary and urgent for Spain to adopt mechanisms to reduce the cost of electricity currently held by the electro-intensive consumers and, in this way, to improve their international competitiveness, but - I insist - the most important thing is that we ensure that production and employment units are maintained, especially in areas already very affected by major industrial conversions. The Government states that these companies, the electricity-intensive companies, will be able to benefit from particular conditions in the supply of electricity through the definition of the status of the electric intensive consumer, which will be developed in a regulatory manner. We have given ourselves a period of six months for this, but because of the urgency that most parliamentary groups and also the sector of the electro-intensive industry themselves have transmitted to us, we are committed to developing it within a much shorter period and, most importantly, to agreeing it with all parliamentary groups, so that we can incorporate all the comments, which will certainly be very good at developing a statute that will incorporate and improve the competitiveness of our industry. It is a statute that not only provides solutions to industries, but in which we want to establish some obligations for companies, obligations that will improve energy efficiency, which is very important for us to move forward in this just transition of our plants. It is also proposed that electro-intensive consumers, in accordance with the framework and legally established criteria, may in turn receive certain exemptions or compensations. It is a real decree, ladies and gentlemen, which establishes an important conditionality for these industries to benefit from aid in order to ensure once again the importance of productive activity and employment in these plants, something which did not exist in our legal system. Therefore, benefits but also obligations to move towards this improvement of competitiveness that will undoubtedly allow the development of this status. I would like to point out - and I have already said this in relation to the institutional declaration - that there have been a number of parliamentary groups that have put forward initiatives in Congress on the need to put in place measures to help the electro-intensive industry to ensure stability and that it can compete on equal terms with the rest of the companies at international level. With this royal decree the Ministry of Industry is incorporating in its government action measures that have already been discussed and approved in this House. I have committed myself with you, with the parliamentary groups, to taking advantage of the great work that is being done in Congress and in the Senate, something that this Government gives great value to. Therefore, in this political initiative we will incorporate all the work that is done in the various committees and also in the plenary and which brings value to the improvement of the industry in this country. Among the measures to reduce the energy cost of industrial enterprises, we will amend the Electricity Act to incorporate the regulation of closed electricity distribution networks in industrial areas into the legal system. This is one of the second measures to reduce energy costs that we are proposing. It is, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, a historic claim by the petrochemical sector, with particular impact on the provinces of Huelva and Tarragona. There have also been a number of parliamentary groups that have recorded initiatives in Congress on the need to regulate closed power distribution networks in industrial areas, and I also remind them that last year a non-law proposal was adopted that included this measure. Therefore, again, in the government's action we echo these demands and these debates on the improvement of the industry of this country. The Directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity, in Article 28, allows for the possibility of closed distribution networks defined as distribution networks providing electricity to an industrial, commercial or geographically reduced shared service area. To this end, the basic principles governing the establishment and authorisation of closed electricity distribution networks are laid down, setting a maximum period of six months for the Government to carry out the regulatory development of distribution networks, in accordance - and this is very important - with the principles of economic and financial sustainability of the system, energy efficiency and fair transition. We are therefore moving again towards a necessary regulation which will reduce the electricity bill in industrial areas which in these cases require different regulation in order to be able to address and ensure their competitiveness. In view of the forthcoming completion of the regulatory life of an important cogeneration plant currently in operation, it is also necessary and urgent to establish an enabling capacity to extend its useful life. Their closure would mean an increase in their energy costs, a loss of efficiency of the energy system and an increase in emissions, as companies would have to replace their current cogeneration facilities both in the electricity consumption needed and also in equivalent heat generating equipment. Therefore, in this royal decree we have intensified the control of the safety of industrial products and of the quality and validity of the market, which will undoubtedly lead to an improvement in the overall safety of products that are made available to consumers, including their environmental impact. In some ways we have, as I say, a set of urgent measures, because industry cannot wait, because we have very important challenges to address successfully. This royal decree contains some measures, a few, but it does not end here, I said, we have an intense job ahead of us to set up next year an industrial policy of the 21st century, which allows us not only to increase the weight of our industry, but also to improve its competitiveness, its productivity, strengthen the productive activity that our plants have and continue to create wealth and employment in the industrial areas where there is now uncertainty about the continuity of some projects. I move, ladies and gentlemen, to develop the part of the royal decree that has to do with the competitiveness of the commercial sector. There are measures aimed at improving legal certainty and reducing - very important - administrative burdens for companies engaged in commercial activities. First, as you know, we amend Article 14 of Law 7/1996 on the Ordering of Minority Trade, in order to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 October 2017, which declared the said Article incompatible with Directive 2005/29 on unfair commercial practices. Please note that the judgment dates from October 2017; it has been more than a year and we are obliged to proceed with this judgment. As I said, the judgment states that there can be no general prohibitions on offering or making sale at loss and that there can be no exceptions to this prohibition based on criteria not covered by the directive. The amendment to the current regulation of the sale of losses is therefore of an urgent nature, as judgments in proceedings relating to preliminary rulings constitute an interpellation of Community law and are required by the Member States to comply with them and, therefore, we are already one year late in the implementation of this judgment. It is a judgment that states that the sale of losses can be prohibited only when it is considered unfair. Member States may not adopt more restrictive measures than those provided for in the European Union standard. It is for this reason that the new regulation of loss-selling provided for in Article 6 of this Royal Decree complies with that judgment, since it does not provide for a general prohibition, although certain limitations are in line with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 on unfair practices of businesses and consumers in the internal market. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that this new regulation is fully respectful of the powers of the autonomous communities, since they can decide how to organise trade and/or consumer inspections according to their interests and effectiveness. Furthermore, the regulation continues to maintain the technical definition of loss-based sales, which facilitates the inspection and sanction function of the Autonomous Communities, as it provides them with the indication, but since this is not sufficient to impose the sanction, it must be established that, in addition to requiring loss-based sales, it is unfair to engage in the cases determined by law. In addition, the Royal Decree aims to reduce administrative burdens for companies carrying out their commercial activities under franchise or distance selling, by abolishing this special regime, which is in force only in them, and by avoiding inconsistencies with the exercise of the administrative power that underpins the registration obligation. This will undoubtedly bring the legal status of such companies into line with Community legislation, where there are no parallel registers. Furthermore, given the existence of a strong sanctioning regime associated with non-compliance with the data reporting obligation, it is of the utmost urgency that the final solution be adopted as soon as possible for greater legal certainty and certainty in the sectors concerned. With regard to another measure contained in the Royal Decree-Law on the ICEX Fellowship Programme, on internationalization and for the purpose of ensuring the call for 2019, it is urgent and necessary to take into account the provision in transitional provision IV of the Royal Decree-Law that this call does not result in the application of the provisions of final provision XVIII of Law 6/2018 of 3 July. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a measure of extraordinary and urgent necessity since, if it is not adopted, it would not be possible to hold the call for scholarships for the 2019 financial year, preventing the carrying out of the activities and functions entrusted to ICEX today and there being no other mechanism to guarantee that activity next year. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, will allow nearly 300 young professionals to train in international trade skills, to practice in the various offices of the foreign network of the Secretariat of State for Trade, in Spanish companies with international activity or in international institutions. In particular, more than 80% of participants obtained an indefinite contract in the first six months after completing this training. So, we're talking about scholarships that are very consolidated... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u56	Quiet, please. Wait a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u57	... that give our young people training in internationalization, so important right now to be able to address the challenge... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u58	Minister, wait a minute. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I was talking to them about the ICEX scholarships, the importance that we have to guarantee the 2019 call not only because more than 300 young people find jobs and quality jobs but also because we are equipping our young people with internationalization skills and, therefore, also allowing companies to have that ability to adapt to the global changes we live in. I would like to conclude by thanking all the parliamentary groups for their willingness and undoubtedly for their work to take forward the measures contained in this royal decree-law. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for measures that will better address the adaptation of our industry and trade to the new challenges related to technological change and the energy transition. Today we are going to submit to validation a rule of law that deals with the real problems of the industrial sector. We need an industrial sector backed by a large majority of Parliament. That is why I call for the House's vote in favour of its validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u60	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, took the first step in fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Industry. [[The Lord]] You have called for support for a supplementary appendix to the Royal Decree-Law which was validated here a couple of months ago on energy transition with my only vote against and which certifies the Government's drift towards the black hole of deindustrialization, which today has alarmed some regions like Asturias, in which industry is essential in its productive fabric, fundamental for the economy, key in employment and vital for the maintenance of large regions today plunged into uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, with the vote against the Forum we once again express our rejection of this government policy which drags the Asturians into recession, unemployment and poverty as sequels to their fulminant formula of decarbonisation, before desertification and relocation, which will annihilate critical sectors for the economic and social future of our population. Improvisations around the energy transition consolidate Spain as a country with criminalizing electricity tariffs, which have a very negative impact on the competitiveness of companies, particularly the electro-intensive ones. The recent interruptibility auction has highlighted a government that, in this half year, has also wasted the important endowments that, at the request of the Forum, are contemplated in the current Law of General Budgets of the State of 2018 and that promote support mechanisms for the reduction of environmental emissions, as well as aid to the industries of electric intensive consumption for indirect costs of CO2, that were recorded to meet the environmental requirement that today, without going further, are a huge threat to the immediate future of the industry, and specifically of the Asturian, Spanish and European steel industries. It won't be because since 2011 we haven't been warning from Forum. The so-called Framework Agreement for a Fair Transition of Coal Mining, signed on 24 October, is the death certificate of the mining basins and a betrayal of Asturias. But we see that it does not come alone, because this royal decree-law is also detrimental to the future of our industry and its tens of thousands of stable and qualified jobs. The 700 jobs of Alcoa are now on the air, but with this new set of regulations, which does not respond by far to what has been mandated here, Minister, because it is lacking ambition and lack of commitment, the result of a palmarially subordinate industrial policy of ultra-ecologicalism with place in Moncloa, dogmatic as in any other country in the world, the government sets a date of extinction to the industry with its short-term plan and encourages the flight of companies. You know firsthand the obvious discontent in the sector, which this very week has described the situation as very worrying. Do you believe, Minister, that companies can expect large future investments with such a regulatory landscape at just three years' notice? Conversely, regulations like this, by discouraging, encourage investment to be stopped. Do you believe that a serious company, which risks millions of euros to modernize its plants and maintain or create jobs can be at the dawn of a minister who in his radical ecological crusade ends up with coal as with power plants, diesel, automotive, fundamentalism or occurrences? These measures, which are intended to be validated, will continue to deepen the decline of Spanish industry, which has already decreased by no less than 2.33 % of national GDP over the course of the century. A specific industrial policy is still lacking. The decisions of his ministry are going to rebuke those that the Minister for the Ecological Transition has already taken for evil. As long as the government of Pedro Sánchez is not detached from such a ballast, the bad news for Spain, for Asturias and for the workers will continue. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law and that at the same time we are going to ask for its processing as a bill, because we prioritize the implementation of some of the measures, but we have doubts about the actual content of the drafting of this royal decree-law, which was made known to us but in which we do not participate. Of the four major issues they raise, they are all very important for Catalonia and for some of the Catalan industries. Obviously, the possibility of maintaining partial retirement at the same time as the relief contract is essential for the manufacturing industry and for the automobile industry in Catalonia, and we therefore prioritize this aspect. It would be difficult to understand that on 1 January these contracts could not be maintained because the effects on this industry and on employment would be difficult to assess. On the question of closed networks, which is an old demand of our group here and also in the Generalitat de Catalunya, we agree that it comes almost ten years late. I remind you that the directive that would allow it to be implemented is from 2009. We understand that this article 3 is short, which should be much broader. From our point of view, it should also accommodate the possibility of closed networks in ports, so that our ports could be competitive with the ports of Germany and with the ports of Belgium, where these closed networks are also implemented. However, we also prioritize implementation immediately, although regulatory development is slow and we would obviously like to participate in it. This is also a demand from the chemical industry in Catalonia and, in particular, the chemical industry in Tarragona. I therefore also remind you of the importance of this vote. With regard to the status of the electric intensive consumer, it is necessary to develop it and we have contributions to make. On the other hand, we have doubts about the regulation they make on the amendments arising from a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to retail trade, because there may be some invasion of competences that should be resolved, given the competences of the Generalitat of Catalonia itself. That is why we will give our confidence and support this measure. It would be difficult to understand that this measure would not come out of this House today, even as we disagree. We offer ourselves - even if you do not accept our offer, we will do the same - to introduce amendments in its procedure as a draft law, without this delay the implementation of these measures, which I repeat for Catalonia, for Catalan industry, are very important. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u65	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. The general assessment of this royal decree for the purposes of the position that this group is going to maintain in the face of its validation takes into account the diversity of the subjects covered by it and the different reasons that led to its approval by the Government. On the one hand, the measure to facilitate the prolongation of part-time retirements by means of appropriate relay contracts in the manufacturing industry, with the fulfilment of the requirements laid down in Article 1 thereof, can undoubtedly have a positive result as a measure of employment promotion, particularly in a sector where the existing working conditions will also boost the creation of quality employment. On the contrary, the negative economic impact that this measure can have on the social security accounts - this was the reason for the temporary restriction of this partial retirement formula and its exclusive limitation to the scope of the manufacturing industry, undoubtedly taking into account the pressures of the car industry - makes it lose social shine to a measure that would be well received in other sectors. On the other hand, measures to support industrial enterprises in the field of energy are more than correct, as they will facilitate a better competitive position. While both those envisaged for closed distribution networks and measures in favour of the electric intensive consumer are limited to a mere declaration of intent by the Government, since in both cases regulatory development is required, which must be carried out as soon as possible and with a content that meets the expectations that this rule has generated, administrative speed that the Royal Decree itself recognizes impossible in another area, in particular in the area of industrial security. A measure, that of closed networks, which, let us not forget, will have an economic impact, since, on the one hand, it will entail a reduction in toll and electricity tax, which will have to be known if it is offset by an increase in consumption by greater industrial activity or if, on the contrary, it will involve redistributing that impact among all. On the other hand, the useful life of the cogeneration plants is extended for two years, in our opinion, a necessary measure for the industries to continue to operate and, therefore, to avoid the closure of those cogeneration plants that in the years 2018 and 2019 end that useful life. He said that this is a necessary step, but it is not enough, because what is really needed is a regulatory framework that makes it possible to extend service life beyond 2020 and encourages new investments to renew existing plants or create new ones, which would lead to greater use of renewable fuels, natural gas or low-emissions. These four issues are understood to be the only developments in content brought by the Government to this rule, since the others are limited to merely formal aspects or due to rulings of the Constitutional Court and, in our view, are due to excessive and inappropriate use of the regulatory mechanism of the Decree-Law. Thus, in the area of industrial security, it raises the level required by the legal instrument to formalize the increase in the amounts of sanctions for infringements in this area, as it is sufficient for the Government to approve them by decree. On the other hand, the inclusion of new aspects for the assessment of the amount of sanctions to be imposed by it is certainly of a minor nature and we believe that it does not justify the adoption of a decree-law. In addition, the regulation of this decree of the conditions for refrigerating facilities due to the delay in the processing already initiated in the precise regulation is at best unjustifiable, constituting a notorious misuse by the Government of this prerogative. In the area of trade, we also believe that this decree does not present any innovation to the existing regulatory framework, since it is limited to implementing or four rulings of the Constitutional Court, for what is necessary a rule with a rank of law, it is no less true that it is at all legally innovative, on the other hand limiting the reform of the regulation of the franchise regime to a mere liberalization of a strictly formal aspect without greater significance. With regard to the trade sector and its measures, we disagree when, in their explanatory statement, they say that this rule is respectful of the autonomous powers, because in this area of internal trade and consumer protection, the Gernika Statute recognises exclusive competence, a competence which - I must say - has been subject to erosion by state law and the interpretation that the Constitutional Court has been making, which has set out a scenario in which the regulatory initiatives in the area of trade that can be deployed in the Basque Autonomous Community are to be subordinated to the supposedly basic legislation that the State can dictate on the basis of its horizontal competence to establish the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity, resulting in an autonomous competition that is cut, diminished and devoid in any case of the relevance conferred by the literality of the statute itself. Finally, the exclusion contained in the fourth transitional provision from the application of the General Subsidies Act to the convening of the ICEX Internationalization Programme for 2019 through a provision approved by the Government and which fails to fulfil an express mandate contained in a law adopted five months ago for the adaptation to the principles of a law whose basic objective is to ensure, of course, greater transparency in the expenditure of public resources by providing for the overcoming of the aforementioned difficulties in the coming year, seems somewhat inappropriate and should have been foreseen earlier. Having said all this, and not being very in agreement with the use of the Royal Decree-Law for some measures, as we have already commented, and the denunciation regarding the competitive invasion of others, but understanding that the measures of support to industrial enterprises in the field of energy as well as the relief contract are necessary, we will vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree-Law, but we have requested its processing as a draft law because we believe that it is necessary to improve the measures envisaged in this one and because we understand, and so we ask, that industrial policy has to be and will be subject to the energy sphere and this does not seem to us to be entirely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. The Socialist Left Parliamentary Group then gave the floor to Mr Capdevila i Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u67	Good morning, Mr. President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Good morning, Minister. Today we discuss whether we will validate this royal decree-law of urgent measures for the promotion of economic competitiveness in the industry and trade sector of Spain. At the outset, Madam Minister, we will not deny that we like how it sounds like to increase competitiveness, to boost industry and trade, which, in its extensive explanatory statement, more than half of the royal decree justifies why these measures are being taken. As a footnote, the agreements would certainly be simpler if we tended less to the bus and you forced us to choose and weigh, but I suppose it is also part of the strategy not only political but parliamentary. You'll know. Without prejudice to assuming the pompousness of what the subtitle indicates, a desideratum, the industrial policy that really favours SMEs, and their competitiveness is, first of all, to achieve a policy that does not burden it tax, and that small businesses do not end up paying an average effective rate of corporate tax of 18.9%, compared to the 7.8% that large companies end up paying. We believe that this is the great comparative and therefore competitive aggravation; but it is not the subject of today. In Esquerra Republicana we have always been more for maintaining a position in favor of boosting the industry; the positive externalities of this strategic sector are undeniable, because they favor innovation and technological advances and, above all, because of their impact on the labour market, a supply of skilled work. We have said this on numerous occasions, not only because of the amount of employment, but also because of its quality and hence the working conditions and wages. We refuse to be part of an economic model in which there are more and more poor workers. And it is that the Kingdom of Spain again occupies positions of absolute shame. Almost 15% of households with workers live below the OECD poverty line, the average. Therefore, Republicans will always bet on a productive model that shields the rights of workers. 'I want decent and productive workplaces, in an economy that combines effective freedom, efficiency and equity' wrote yesterday in El País, from the prison of Lledoners, Oriol Junqueras. I'll pass you the article because you've probably been a little busy. Your first proposal to extend the period of application of the transitional provision, relating to the relief contract, seems to us, although with nuances, correct, more if you talk to a deputy of Martorell - the dumbest makes volkswagens - because in a country with youth unemployment rates in European Champions League positions, according to the latest data from the INE, which are placed in a scandalous 33%, although that is the way I think you can try a cut. However, although the use of this contract is specified for the manufacturing industry, we see a gap in the scope of the rule. In addition, if not, there is a problem of aggravation compared with the other workers in other sectors of activity with similar working conditions. Why don't you give them the same deal? Our parliamentary group, if, as we hope, the Royal Decree-Law is being dealt with as a bill, will put forward amendments to that effect. Networks closed. Hallelujah! Of course, some of you will understand the joke; some begin to think that my second name is not Esteve, but closed networks. Members of Parliament from Tarragona who do not vote yes, when they return on holiday prepare their explanations for their voters. We welcome the end of a completely discriminatory act of our industry versus other European industrialized countries. It is undeniable that we are faced with a globalised economy and inertias of fierce competition. In this context, it is our duty as legislators not to burden our industry with undue costs. This is precisely what caused an incomplete transposition of a European directive. The result is that an industry like the petrochemicals of the Tarragona demarcation - like many others - incurred an energy cost of twice as much as in Germany. Now, the result of the work of Esquerra Republicana - among others - this royal decree develops the figure of the grid of distribution of electricity closed, which will save up to 30% of the energy costs. We can't do more than celebrate it. Do not believe that this is why the Christmas spirit has invaded us to such limits in the processing of the royal decree-law, that we request that it be treated as a bill. We will carefully study the impact of exemptions on industry, as well as some aspects that we consider to be susceptible to competitive invasion in terms of trade. We keep on complaining about your good temper and your team taking into account our postulates in the development of such important issues and we will thank you for your commitment from this rostrum, if possible, to conjure and keep away from the cause of closed networks and the debate of electrointensity the nefarious aphorism of the first Earl of Romanes you will know: Let them make the laws while I make the regulations. One last idea is that we will continue to work for our SMEs, for the productive muscle of the country. Please take note, Minister, because we will shortly be presenting an initiative in this House to ensure the connectivity of industrial polygons so that they can access the network under optimal conditions. We cannot deny the impact of new technologies on the industrial model and the transition to Industry 4.0. We will appreciate your group's sympathy for such an initiative. Yes, Minister, we hope to find a constructive spirit whose purpose will undoubtedly be to worry about people's problems - yes - and to promote conditions - also - so that companies can carry out their business on an equal footing. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u69	Madam Minister, this is the first time I'm going to talk to you, because you haven't spoken to me at all about this royal decree. We are here to discuss a trap - and I say well, trap - because they give us something that looks like a real decree-law and it is really a PNL, Minister. [[Applauds]] It does not dig into anything, it has a rather abstract content and has never wanted to negotiate it. Does the Socialist Party, and this particular government, realize that they do not have an absolute majority? Because I question it every day that I rise to the rostrum, not only because of their attitude towards the rest of the forces, but because they try to impose texts on us here without any previous negotiations. We are all interested in the industrial sector, but we really believe this, so in the Commission we try to reach agreements every day; we do not impose one criterion above another, Madam Minister. Frankly, after reading the text and analyzing it thoroughly I wonder if of all that you have said here in the rostrum, which sounds good - because it sounds good, I will not deny it -, really what is then written is the maximum ambition that the Government has in industrial matters for Spain. I raise it every day, because it seems rather like an answer to the desperate because the issue of Vestas and Alcoa has burst into their faces, and as they have to do something to seem to bet on Spanish industry they bring this royal decree without talking to anyone, without negotiating and trying to lobby at the last minute to see if they get the necessary votes. Madam Minister, the Spanish industry needs a lot more respect, or at least it deserves a government that wants to negotiate and feels with everyone. I have not yet spoken to you at all about this royal decree. [[Applauds]] As I say, if this text that brings us today represents what the Government thinks of Spanish industry, little more can be said. It all gave it to a regulation. That is the policy of the absolute majority: they bring a real decree-law that has no content, that speaks very well, to general features but does not land, and then the government already eats and eats the regulation by its own means, without consensus and without working with the rest of the parties. As I say, you have not come to negotiate but to try to convince us that you have to vote for this because it is the best for Spanish industry, but I have missed a deep debate about what is the best for Spanish industry, and I tell you why. We're going to land on the different topics. First, electro-intensive. Where were you when in this House your party brought in a royal decree that created a differentiation between the Basque electrointensive industry and the rest of the Spanish electrointensive industry? Where were you? Because if you talk about Spanish industry and equality, how is it possible for your government to make differences and bet on that electrical coupon in Spanish industry, Minister? How is that possible? [[Applauds]] We are absolutely clear that when we talk about Spanish industry we have to bet on the whole Spanish industry, not on those who give us more or less votes to take our real decrees forward. The price of light is unsustainable - unsustainable - both for industry and for all domestic consumers. That is why we have to reach an agreement, of course we do. What electric and electro-intensive consumers are paying for today are the mistakes of these improvisation policies, of the policies of not negotiating, of not reaching agreements. Then we talk about the fact that our sector has to be more competitive, of course, but for that the government has to be up to date and to sit down and talk about industry as a priority and as a strategic sector, because in that we agree: Spanish industry is a strategic sector that gives a lot of direct jobs, which gives wealth to the areas where it is, of course, yes, but no, Minister, creating differentiations. You are the Government of Spain, not the Government of a single autonomous community, and I think you have to record it. I'm still landing on more issues, Minister. He's been talking about closed networks. I agree with Mr Capdevila that there has been a lot of discussion here about closed networks. Our political party also believes in these closed networks for the industrial sector as a measure to try to reduce these costs and make our industry much more efficient, but Mr Capdevila has also said that today the Tarragona Members do not vote for this because they will have to explain it. Oysters! What have the Catalan Members who voted in favour of the electric coupon explained to the Catalan industrial sector? [[Applauds]] As I say, Minister, there are points with which we are very much in agreement, but we are not in agreement with the process, nor with how it has been carried out, nor with the lobby of last minute, which thinks that this royal decree can fall. It also speaks, Madam Minister, of relief contracts. We - and I tell you the truth, we are going to ask that it be treated as a bill, because we have to negotiate, because we have to sit down, because we don't have to go looking for a headline, because industrial policy doesn't go of political color, because industrial policy goes of Spain and country project, but, of course, lately there is so much hesitation that I don't know what country project your government has anymore. In both closed and electro-intensive networks, all this should be linked rather to this law of energy transition and climate change because the problem that Spain has had all its life is that the ministries work separately to point out points separately, and on issues that are common, rather than doing what they ask of us all, which is to sit down and negotiate, do the opposite. Industry has to sign up a bit, so I take out this royal decree because Ecological Transition has already drawn up its royal decree. Since we're going for points and doing the checklists, that's how it goes, minister. As I have already told you from the beginning, until now we believe in Spanish industry and to negotiate will have us there, but to really negotiate not to do it at the last minute. To talk about the workers, to talk about the areas that have industrial development, to talk about the industrial potential that Spain has, because it has much more than we currently have on the table. You have spoken of everyone, of consensus, that we have all registered various proposals together. Yes, and in the Commission we have discussed and worked them day by day, negotiating and with consensus, not by imposition. As I said - I think I am repeating myself a lot - it has been an absolute surprise to us the attitude of the ministry in bringing this royal decree because they do not believe in the agreements and these do not arrive by spontaneous generation; things of life: you have to work them. Beyond this, I want to tell you that we will ask you to proceed as a bill. Minister, we believe that the way is not to impose a last-minute text and run for the year to end with a positive balance for the ministry. I wish everyone a happy holiday and that the new year will bring us consensus, energy and also new elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs. Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u71	Good morning. Minister, I'm going to start by telling you at least two obviouss, and I'm sorry; you know that. First, your Government has only eighty-four votes and, as you know or should know, this group representing five million voters has been called by you when the royal decree was passed by the Council of Ministers. Secondly, Madam Minister, in law it is appropriate not to use or abuse the royal decreeslaws as a standard bus. I want to explain to the Spaniards that they listen to us that in this royal decree you bring us a technical norm that regulates the conditions of refrigeration, brings us a partial retirement - I regret that it is not the Minister of Labour, because I want to talk about this -, brings us rules of energy and brings us amendments to the Law on Retail Trade along with amendments to the Law on the Food Chain - which this group also wants to talk about - and to the Law on Food Quality. This isn't serious. In addition, you know that in law obviously has to be founded on urgency in its handling of the royal decreesleys. Madam Minister, two of the measures you bring here on energy and for the sectors of the electro-intensive industries in our country are taken by you at six months. Is it urgent or not, Minister? Do you think it's serious a precept like the four? They have been announcing to us - without ever doing so - that Spain will finally make a statute that regulates electrointensity and large consumers, as in France, Germany and serious countries, and tells us that it will bring this royal decree to make another royal decree within six months. It's not serious, Minister. I tell you with all my love: it's not serious. [[Applauds]] But let's talk about the measures of the royal decree. I'm starting with the food chain. We are not satisfied, Madam Minister, with either the industries or the productive sectors of food. I'm a Galician, Minister. Galician milk and milk producers and Asturians continue to sell milk at 18 cents and the distribution chains do with them what they want. [[Applauds]] You do not fix with this royal decree the problems of the distribution chain or its balance. We're not satisfied with the loss sale either. As you said, just one problem is eliminated. It's a deception that doesn't convince the sector. We do not agree, Minister; it is insufficient. It is also insufficient, although we could support it, to put forward a measure for cogeneration. You limit it to two years. You know perfectly well what the problem is. That's insufficient, Minister. A government has to be brave, especially if we finally have the Ministry of Industry, like this Confederal Parliamentary Group of United We Can In Common We Can In Sea. Partial retirement. I'm sorry the Minister of Labour isn't here. You know perfectly well that your government will not avoid it. We asked him in the government agreement and we didn't make it. We have presented a million initiatives without achieving it and you know that on 1 January 2019 a rule that brings cause to your Law 27/2011 on pensions, which restricts partial retirement, comes into force. You, with this royal decree, which would seem positive to us and I have asked you to keep it secret, tell the workers, as you have acknowledged, fundamentally from the automotive industry, that you can access partial retirement and the relief contract right now when this royal decree is passed or not approved. Only in those sectors. Do you want to tell me, Minister, that the 'kellys', the people of construction and the hospitality even meeting the requirements you are going to penalize and you are not going to be able to retire in advance? A cleaner who works like a mule, minister, with forgiveness, won't be able to retire partially? [[Applauds]] We don't agree. We would be willing to vote for it if this measure brought it in a segregated way, but you wanted this royal decree to have a million measures that you also know were not negotiated. We therefore very much agree with the workers and the partial retirement for the automobile and other industries that can do so, but we also want the workers in this country not to be penalised on 1 January for going to restrict their conditions. We disagree, Minister. [[Applauds]] And we're going to chapter II. Chapter II, Minister, is entitled Support measures for the just transition of the electro-intensive industry. The main electro-intensive industry in our country is primary aluminium production. It is called Alcoa and there are the company committees of Avilés and A Coruña, minister, and this royal decree does not serve them. [[Applauds]] This royal decree will allow workers and their families to go to the streets on January 15, Minister. [[Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Maroto Illera, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister, of course I do. [[Applauds]] More things, Minister. We do not agree that they have expelled the class unions from the negotiating table and work with Alcoa. We don't agree. The guarantee of what you negotiate with Alcoa is that the unions are there and have expelled them from the negotiation. [[Applause.-The Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, Maroto Illera, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister. Yes, Minister. Madam Minister, what we have asked you in Article 4 is that you bring here the lines of the electro-intensive status and tell us nothing. I'll give you some input. When they were in the opposition, this House unanimously voted in favour of the proposals we made to them when it ruled the People's Party. Look, it's very simple, what the Spanish electrointensive industry needs is just to have a true price and guarantee in several years. Bring like the rest of the countries proposed for at least five years and tell us, in that status, who will pay and how to pay. What answer did you give us - and I'm sorry because I know it's not you, it's the Energy Minister - and what output did you give to the electro-intensives in our country? Worse measures than those of the People's Party! The auction that was formalized last week by restricting and reducing the blocks to forty is worse than Mr Nadal did. Read the report of the National Securities Market Commission, Minister. We do not share those auctions because they are opaque and expensive, it is paid on the electric bill by the rest of the Spaniards and the Spanish and for you the exit for Alcoa was exactly this. There is one thing we like about Article 5, although we might like it more, and it is that in the case of Spanish industries receiving aid and leaving, as Alcoa is going to do and then we are going to talk about Vestas, they have to return them. But what a coincidence!, Minister, that in Article 5, prepared for a first transitional period, it turns out that you tell us that the repayment of aid can be excluded in two cases: that there is an ERE of 85 % extinction of the workforce or of a reduction of the industry's production of 85 % in cases of transformation and fusion. Look, ladies and gentlemen, creditors' competition. I'm taking this opportunity. If the creditor contest is found guilty, does Juan Pueblo also pay, Minister? [[Applauds]] That guilty contest you can end up sitting in court, Minister! [[Applauds]] We say no. It is as if on 15 January Alcoa says: I expel and fire 85% of the staff, but I take the 1000 million euros I have received from aid during this time. We disagree, Minister. We don't share it. We think we have another chance, do things right and we're going to work as we always do. Networks closed, Minister. Restrict what they said in the draft Climate Change Act. [[Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Maroto Illera, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister, the fee is a security reason. Besides, they have a chance to clarify who's going to pay that, what impact it's going to have on the electric bill. We agree with the closed networks and it is very good that the comrades of Tarragona support it; we are Galicians, Basques, from all places in Spain, it is very good, but let us be clear if that is what we are going to pay everyone. I'm just finishing up, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u72	Mrs. Díaz, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u73	Yes, of course. Clothes. I will tell you the truth, Minister: it is not the case of a left-wing government. You have demanded that the workers of Vestas give up 1000 euros of compensation to enter the labour market and the workers of Vestas, according to the assembly, have said they do not accept, minister. [[Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, Maroto Illera: That's not true!]] Yes, Minister, yes, Minister, yes, Minister. And I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u74	You have to conclude, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u75	Mr President, from our group, and I hope that on behalf of the House, we would like to extend our condolences to the families of the sailors who died in Fisterra yesterday. Nothing more and lots of graces. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning. It gives the impression that the real decree that the Government is bringing to this House is going to legislate against Spanish industry instead of in favour, which is what this minister here today has explained very carefully and which I am going to explain today too because I think it answers many of the problems that the industrial sector has at the moment. Contrary to what has happened here in the last intervention, I would say that today is a crucial day for the industrial sector in Spain and for its workers, for the workers in the industrial sector. Today the importance of having made a Ministry of Industry which in just six months has brought or has been able to unravel many of the problems that we have been carrying out in recent years; a Ministry of Industry which has made it possible to put on the front line essential measures to achieve this objective, which we all seem to share, to reach a weight of 20% of GDP by the industrial sector. It is a sector that is part of a process of technological transformation, digital transformation, adaptation to the energy transition, but in addition, this process is a huge opportunity, although in order to take advantage of this opportunity we must be prepared and have the political will necessary to develop accompanying measures that are the right ones to achieve the full potential that the industrial sector has ahead of us. The Royal Decree-Law, as the Minister has explained, incorporates measures to promote the competitiveness of the industrial sector on three fundamental factors: on improving labour productivity, reducing energy costs and strengthening industrial security. Only in this way will it be possible to be a leading sector, an expanding sector, a quality job generator and an added value generator. We have for years been listening to the previous Government repeatedly expressing its intention to support the Spanish industrial sector - good intentions, great declarations, many meetings - but not a single explicit support action and no legislative initiative in this regard; I will perhaps be acknowledged by the other political groups that have intervened here today. In order to increase the weight of industry in our economic structure - I insist, an objective that we have all, at least once, expressed in this rostrum - we must get to work, and that is what the Government is doing with great determination. There will surely be groups, and it has been shown here today, that they think it is insufficient, that they think they want to go faster, that they think we need to detail the issues more and surely the Socialist Parliamentary Group also thinks so, even the Government, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must start and it is not worth it if it is insufficient, as I do not like, I do not vote for it. It is not good; it is not good because it is the House that has to make decisions about what is legislated, how it is legislated, what is to be agreed and agreed and what is the priority. Let us therefore use the tool we have in this House. We started with this royal decree-law that provides solutions to problems over seven years and, in addition, establishes a framework to continue to favor industry and continue to take action. Ladies and gentlemen, working on improving the competitiveness of industry is very urgent. Some complain that we use the royal decree-law to legislate, but it seems that they are not aware of the importance and urgency of taking some of the measures involved in this initiative. And if not, let's ask the automotive companies and their company committees whether it is urgent to extend the relief contract until 2023 to generate quality employment and address the just transition, or let's ask the electrointensive industries what they think they can finally have a specific status. Mrs Rodriguez, it's a deadline of up to six months, it doesn't mean we're going to reach six months. The status of the electro-intensive industries shall be prepared before six months. Is it important and urgent for them that this decision be made in the Congress of Deputies? Ask industrial peoples like those in Tarragona whether it is urgent or not to approve this royal decree-law for closed energy distribution networks or for companies that have cogeneration and whose useful life will end; for example, ceramic companies, which will have the possibility to extend their useful life. Let us ask those young people who are waiting to apply for an ICEX scholarship whether or not it is urgent to implement this royal decree-law. Or let us ask the workers in Alcoa, because, quite contrary to what has been said here today, what this initiative seeks is just to put the barriers to the closures of their workplace. Let us not deceive the citizenry, let us not deceive the people who are experiencing this situation significantly. This royal decree-law will serve precisely to avoid closures. [[Applauds]] In the face of the wish of the previous Government, this royal decree-law implies the resolution of matters that were already urgent before June. Yes, before June there were urgent things; in six months we have managed to draw a real decree-law to solve urgent problems, in just six months. This royal decree opens the door to the implementation of serious and competitive industrial policies, but we must make changes, and changes that are sustained in national and international legal certainty, such as, for example, regarding the sale with losses, which attends to the enforcement of a judgment of the High Court of Justice but also incorporates certainty and protection into the set of commercial practices. As I said at the outset, this new Government wants to promote a clear and unequivocal industrial policy, ambitious in the challenges and measures to be implemented, with leadership from the Government; shared leadership, based on dialogue. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative has been a dialogue and a lot of dialogue. This royal decree also contains initiatives that we have adopted in Parliament. These are initiatives that we have adopted, which the Government is urged to implement and is in the process of implementing. What do we ask of the government if it turns out that we have been saying that non-law proposals are passed and then never carried out? This royal decree-law collects many of them, such as closed networks, among others many. The Government was urged and the Government had done so. Parliament serves that purpose. That shared leadership that the Government wants with common work with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities, with sectoral associations, with companies, with workers and with their trade union representatives, with legal guarantees that guarantee national and international investment; that is what this royal decree law seeks. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I am aware that the work that we have been doing and which is reflected in this royal decree-law has been largely approved by this House, I ask you for approval by each and every group, so that we have the opportunity to discuss it, if necessary with its processing as a bill, because industrial policy must be built in a choral way and that is the intention of the Government of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. When we talk about industrial policy, and we are talking about matters that transcend a generation, a legislature, what we ask the group that supports the Government and the Government is that they address the majority group of the House, that they talk to us because they are matters that transcend - I insist - both a generation and a legislature. When did they come to talk to us? When the preferred partner, the partner who maintains this government has failed and decided not to support this royal decree, then it is when they have come to talk to us. And I want to tell you, Minister, it's not that it's a personal matter or that it has anything to do with you, but, understand me correctly, that attitude is sectarian, they behave sectarianly with us. See if they are sectarians who prefer to sit with President Torra at a bilateral meeting this afternoon rather than talk to us. Make him look at it, Minister, make him look at it. [[Applauds]] They present a block of energy measures, as has been said throughout the interventions, without calculating the costs, without knowing what implications they will have directly on the electricity bill, and it is the second time that they do so. Between 2004 and 2011 they did this: not to calculate, to present measures that contributed to creating a tariff deficit of 27 billion euros. Only this year are paid in the electricity bill 2740 million euros. I mean, every time you go into government and get your hands on the energy issue, what you do is you take money out of your pocket to Spanish consumers. That's what they do every time they talk about energy policy. [[Applauds]] 15% of the electricity bill is to pay for your energy policy and plays, 15%. 15% of the bill is to pay for bad energy policies. And you will say: you have learned, you will not do it again. No, man no!, for 2019 they already anticipate a new deficit of 453 million euros. But when are you going to learn? When will they know that energy policy needs to be talked to the party that has the most experience and has best negotiated these issues in the country? [[Applauds]] I think they're acting with absolute irresponsibility. They call us referring to the renewal, or extension, of the relay contract that affects the automotive sector. I have already told you, Minister, if you bring us a decree concerning the extension of the relief contract proposed by the People's Party, delighted, it is more, I tell you already here today: If you bring a decree to the Council of Ministers tomorrow in Barcelona, I will tell you that we are going to support it and we are going to validate it. But don't do this, don't use ideas that we can share to put behind us initiatives that you do is to boost the electricity bill and directly harm small and medium-sized enterprises and families, which is what you always do, I insist, that you talk about energy policy. There are several ideas underlying energy. On the one hand, the electro-intensive ones. Indeed, there are industries and companies where around 30% of the costs are related to electricity. It is true that industry must be supported, and it is true that industrial employment is a job of quality, of shorter duration, of better wages, and that it always incorporates research and development, and therefore it should be promoted. But it is that, look, in the 2018 State General Budgets you had at your disposal 72 million euros to compensate the electrointensive industry for the cost of renewable energy on your bill. It took six months, six months to allocate them, six months! Orders were made, decrees were made, six months! It took six months to get the renewable energy competition out in the Canary Islands, six months!, and we left it on the desk of the Secretary of State. [[Applauds]] We are proposed to have a stable price for the electrointensive industry, and I ask you: Is that insurance premium that you guarantee who will pay it? Where are the calculations? Black on white. How much money are we talking about? What's the black box? Tell us, tell us how that will impact on the average Spanish bill. You don't know, you know why you don't say it? Because he doesn't know. So I'm asking you to sit with the People's Party, that we were the ones who ended the deficit, that we were the ones who managed to give sustainability to the electrical system, and then you'll see how you can get that deal you want. He's talking about cogeneration. We agree, but of course, with a cogeneration that is highly efficient and therefore avoids the airborne expulsion of greenhouse gases, but not just any, and neither does it specify it, nor the costs. Another black box. As far as closed networks are concerned, of course we agree. Moreover, I have been visiting with my colleague Jordi Roca the chemical people of Tarragona and we have stated that we agree, but a serious government like ours, a government that studies, what did he do? What did we do? [[A Member of Parliament: Nothing]] To verify the costs of such initiatives and to what extent their implementation could benefit both the industry and not adversely affect the electricity bill. And I also look at those here who scream, sometimes deafen with very loud, striking speeches. Are you going to vote against it? Mrs. Díaz, are you going to vote against the decree? Here the compromise is in the vote. The word is nice, it's okay for the videos and the tweeter, but the engagement is in the vote, and then we'll see if we say one thing and we do the opposite. [[Applauds]] It is the People's Party that sets out the agenda to strengthen the industrial sector and aims at 20% of the industry's share of gross domestic product by 2020. We're at 16. To you, they told you that you were going to be Minister of Industry, your obligation was to encourage, boost, enlarge the industrial sphere. What do we have as a result of your arrival in the government in June this year? The closure of Vestas, the closure of Alcoa, an ERE in Ferroatlantica. But when are they going to stop? When are you going to realize that you have to talk to the sectors directly involved and to the political formation that can make it possible to achieve that there is 20% industry in our country? We launched several ideas, abandon - I imagine you also see the television - that interest you have in everything related to the diesel tax, abandon it, abandon it already. [[Applauds]] Forget about suppressing the labour reform that has resulted in more than three million people working since we began to rule. It's very simple, you've arrived, 3 million unemployed; we've arrived, 3 million jobs. Apply the story, do not repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we have a lot of ideas. We want to work with you to ensure that the weight of industry is relevant, that we reach that 20%, but we must call before passing the decree, because it is 84, and we are 134. Thank you very much. [[Ms Maroto Illera, Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u81	Good morning, again. I wanted to speak again because some things have been said that I do not share and I would like to clarify some of the criticisms that have been made, although I believe that it has become clear in the statement by the spokesman for the parliamentary group. We have been accused of discrimination, that we have not opened a dialogue with the rest of the parliamentary groups. I think it has become very clear that many of the measures taken by this royal decree-law are the result of the dialogue of many months and even years of work, where in this House we have talked about closed networks, the electro-intensive industry, the improvement of the human capital of our plants. Therefore, many of the measures listed here are responding to what has been requested of the Government in this Parliament, including, as I said, the institutional declaration on support for the electro-intensive industry in connection with the closure of Alcoa. Mrs. Díaz, regarding Alcoa and Vestas, you said some things I don't share. I will start with Vestas, because he has accused us that there is now manipulation in the negotiation of contracts. Mrs Díaz, it is negotiated in the ERE that workers - more than 90% of the workforce - signed with companies the way jobs were to be exchanged and maintained. That's negotiated, that's not where the government came in. The Government where it has entered has been to create a working table to give it a solution and continuity of a productive unit in an industrial crisis that involved the closure of a company, and we have solved it. Mrs. Díaz, I don't know where you see the problem. We are not marketing employment, what we have managed to do is to provide security for many families so that they have continuity at work. [[Applauds]] We don't trade, Mrs. Díaz, don't you say falsehoods. Read the agreement reached by the workers and the company and see that there it is collected how this exchange was to be made if there was really a productive unit, as it has been, Network Steel, which will take over the factory. Mrs Díaz, you have also spoken a lot about Alcoa and that this royal decree does not solve the closing of Alcoa in the short term. But it doesn't hurt you either, Mrs. Díaz. [[Applauds]] It is a real decree - and the spokesman for the Socialist Group has said - that what he does is to give guarantees that productive unity and employment in companies can be maintained. And where are we working on the Alcoa crisis, Mrs. Díaz? At two tables, at a table that has created Work, at which we have managed that on November 30, when the date for the ERE was set, we extend the deadline until January 15, and we are; and in Industry, where we are also working to give a solution to that crisis. Therefore, do not reproach us that we have no unity in the development we are dealing with from the industrial crises, because we could have been passive. The Government could have remained calmly waiting to see how crises were resolved, and yet we are dealing with them out of responsibility. We have also been accused that this Government is addressing industrial policy insufficiently, that the royal decree does not respond to urgency. The truth is that I have not seen much criticism of the industrial policy that this government has put in place, I have not seen criticism of the 30 million of the Connected Industry 4.0 programme, the 400 million that we have put into the Reindus programme, the 84 million compensation of CO2 costs. They have made a criticism of industrial policy that I cannot share, because in six months we have put to roll the machine of an industrial policy that is necessary and that is completed with this royal decree and with measures, that next year we will bring to the debate in this House, as important as the law of industry or the strategic framework for industrial Spain will be. Therefore, I cannot share a criticism of inadequacy and that we do not have industrial policy on the agenda of this Government. Not only do we have it, but, as I have already said, tell me where, what sector has criticized us, what worker has criticized us for the measures we have put in place. In conclusion, we have also talked about the relief contract, the insufficiency and also the benefit that the industry will have vis-à-vis other sectors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u82	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u83	Mrs. Díaz, you were talking about the Kellys. In six months, Mrs Díaz, we have been able to reactivate the Bureau for quality in the hospitality sector, we have been able to recognise professional diseases, the Master Plan for decent employment has improved the working conditions of 13,200 workers in the hospitality sector. [[Applauds]] Mrs Díaz, you cannot accuse this government of looking elsewhere, because we are working not only for industry, but also for the services sector and for quality employment. I ended up talking about trade. They said there was a lot of improvisation. I do not know whether they have followed the Government's action on trade, but with great satisfaction I have to tell you that this week, on Monday, we are presenting a campaign to end counterfeiting and illegal sale, a problem that destroys forty thousand jobs a year in this country. I invited all of you, Congress and Senate, to be with us on that day, which will lead to the creation and implementation of a plan against counterfeiting. Yesterday we created the Trade Observatory 4.0, which will allow us to talk, debate and put on the table measures to help the sector to modernize, to digitise, and we had a day, which we also invite the Members and Senators of the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, because we want to make them participants. We do not want to work outside this House, but we want to work, and we are doing so, with the House, adding dialogue, useful politics, which is what we have come to do here. Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Díaz Pérez asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Yes, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u85	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 73, I should like to speak. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u86	You have two minutes. [[Several Members: The debate is reopened]] Wait a minute, Mrs. Díaz. The debate has reopened and if the rest of the speakers ask for the floor, they will speak. So far, I have been asked to speak, only and exclusively, two speakers. If anyone else asks, I will also give you the floor. Since Mrs Díaz is already on the stand, she will intervene first and then Mr Bel and Mr Martínez Oblanca will do so. If any spokesman wants to request an intervention, please ask him now. [[The rest of the speakers ask for the floor]] All the speakers will then speak in the same order in which they did so in their first speech, that is, from minor to greater, except in the case of Mrs Díaz, who, having asked for it in the first place and being the only one I have seen who asked for the word, and who is already on the stand, seems to me that it is not appropriate for me to abandon it. From there, the rest of the speakers who have asked for it will speak, who have all been, for two minutes and for the order I have mentioned. You have two minutes, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Very quickly. Minister, I'm not lying. What I do is not share what you have done. And I don't think you're lying either. In this sense, we have a discrepancy. Two, Minister. What you know, and I know it hurts, with Vestas is true. Look at the press these days. The workers' assembly... [[Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism, Maroto Illera, delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u88	Madam Minister, the Government can always intervene, but when it so requests and at its appropriate turn, it does not interrupt the speakers. Thank you. Go on, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u89	Mr. President, are you going to take my time off, because it's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u90	Go on, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u91	The workers' assembly does not accept these conditions of renouncing compensation for being in a labour market that does not guarantee them access to it. [[Applauds]] Three, Minister. I am saddened that a minister of a serious government says: it does not apply to Alcoa, but it does not harm him either. Minister, they're going out on January 15th. They're going out on January 15th, Minister. [[Applauds]] Four, minister. Do you know what you should have done? A real decree to ensure public intervention from SEPI and to ensure that Alcoa continues, as Italy does, as serious countries do, which defend the productive sectors of their country. [[applause]] However, we are marred by a royal decree that sends us six months, minister. It's not serious. Five, Minister. Bring the partial retirement, we'll vote for it. In their writings they are aware that the reform of the Socialist Party and the reform of the People's Party is very bad, so that workers are currently unable to access part-time retirement from January onwards. We want it for all the workers in Spain, not just for one sector. [[Applauds]] Do not divide us, Minister, that we are one, and women more, who are particularly affected by this partial retirement. I'm done. I'm sorry you bothered. I don't lie, what I do is I disagree with your policies. And we also tell you with all the affection that before day 28 you can perfectly modify this work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and others, certainly for lack of time we have not announced our vote, but it will be absolutely necessary to abstain. [[Rumors]] If they had brought us partial retirement separate from other measures, of course it would not be so. We also do so out of responsibility, because the minister knows well, who has worked hard in these hours, which of course we have yielded long and forcefully. But we don't lie, minister...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u92	Mrs. Díaz, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u93	... You dress if you want to be in the bag, you give up the compensation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. You have one minute, Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I may, I will speak from the seat to point out that I am afraid, Minister, that with your intervention you have opened Pandora's box, the thunder box. I'm going to vote against this royal decree-law and for what it looks like once again I'm going to be alone, and to great honor. It seems to me good that you reproach the critics for their interventions and underline their contradictions, because they are indeed disparaging from themselves. The government rules this royal decree-law, the opposition eats it and the workers of the industry are the ones who will pay the bill. Allow me not to take part in such a cake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr. Bel, you have a minute, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u97	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you've opened your shift and you have these risks. In any case, things are being clarified, because I have seen interventions on the one hand and on the other, but at the moment all the workers and companies that are following this debate live, from the chemical sector, the automotive and intensive sectors, are wondering whether or not the real decree, which is relevant to this situation, is prospering. It is true that this is reprehensible to groups that make very incendiary speeches but do not mattify the vote, but it is also true that the Government must assume some responsibility. I have told you more than once from this rostrum, with eighty-four deputies the royal decree-laws are less justifiable, but they are justifiable if they arrive agreed. They don't get there, they can't always trust that it's going to be treated as a bill and that's where we're going to incorporate what we think is necessary. However, I repeat, and I do like to ask very clearly in these cases the Members of my demarcation, of Tarragona, because of course, after taking pictures with the chemical industry betting on closed networks we are all. Obviously, the regulation that they offer us today is not to our liking, we will try to improve it, but that for the first time in ten years there is the real opportunity to regulate closed networks and that today is limited here, in this House, the truth is that at the time of taking the next photos we will have to look and know who makes it possible and who makes it impossible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u99	Very briefly. We will continue to support the royal decree because we understand that it is good for industry, but I would like to join that part of it that it is true that there are only eighty-four Members. Therefore, we do or at least request that we be notified in advance in order to be able to negotiate certain issues in the actual decrees because I think it can be interesting, it can improve them and in the end they can be validated with a more strengthened majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we have just shown that the omnibus system is also charged by the devil, and trusting everything to the constructive responsibility of the groups, even belonging to the group most accused of not having it and that on this occasion it is going to exercise it, it is extremely dangerous. I do not want to abound in the benefits of closed networks that my partner has described very well by Tarragona, Mr Bel, but I do want to take advantage of to demand some response to my speech, which I understand will be, that I was either not attentive or I did not perceive any commitment to ensuring the connectivity of industrial polygons. Nor does it seem to me that our request for commitment from this rostrum to conjure up, to discuss the differences and regulatory developments that should have been, if approved, on closed networks, as well as in the debate on electrointensity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u103	Madam Minister, the fact that Alcoa has neither cold nor heat makes me think: what is the purpose of this royal decree? If it doesn't improve or hurt anything, why did you bring it? The truth is, I don't understand anything at all. You talk about money; money that, on the other hand, comes from budgets negotiated by the People's Party and Citizens. Look, look, when the Socialist Party didn't even want to sit down and talk about budgets! Where's the money coming from now? Of the negotiation of others, because you do not negotiate, Minister. [[Applauds]] Minister, you've talked about a lot of things, like industrial strategy. Come and tell us what your Government's industrial strategy is, because it has not done so, it has not done so; it could present it. You also talked about costs and so on. But there is a general focus on all the members of his Government, on almost all of them: every time we ask them how much things cost and where the money comes from, we hear what is said among colleagues, the cri-cri-cri of the crickets, which means that they never respond to anything at all. Because to work on policies that cost money first you have to do the math. Some sometimes said that our economic office, better to bring the square accounts than to keep fooling the citizens. I was also talking about useful policy, Minister. The useful policy is to sit, negotiate and bring out texts that are endorsed by this House; it is not to look elsewhere, to say that neither cold nor heat, and to try that by doing and grace we will know who things are approved. I really encourage you to bring in the real urgent things instead of the royal decree-laws. They continue to prostitute the meanings of the royal decree-law of urgency, putting, on the one hand, urgent things, and then a bubble of things that do not have the same urgency. Since they do not have the capacity to negotiate, they try to impose their thinking on us. Finally, Minister, I want to tell you that I have seen you nervous because, perhaps, it will be the second time that a royal decree-law falls into our democracy; and if a royal decree-law falls, it is because you have not done your duties. I ask you to be self-critical and a little humble in facing the great challenges facing this country, such as industrial policy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u105	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to appeal to all political groups to accountability, because it would not be fair for a real decree-law, which entails a series of very important measures for many workers in this country, for the industry in this country, for a powerful economic sector that needs a lot of push, because of issues not going forward. The Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to report that, of course, it is a real decree-law that we want to deal with as a bill. We are certain that in this process all the groups will be able to improve those aspects that contemplate this royal decree-law and that they do not exactly meet the criteria that many of your ladies and gentlemen have expressed in their speeches. Therefore, I simply want to make an appeal for responsibility. There are a lot of people waiting for us today, enough for us to be able to agree. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u107	Madam Minister, we leave the pact for industry on the table, you have a document with which you can build that desire shared by all members of the House and therefore call us and let us sit down and work. Don't use these bus orders to look like we're going somewhere and do the opposite. [[Applauds]] We have also seen that it is one thing to speak forcefully, forcefully, displaying a parliamentary muscle that I respect, and another the compromise of the vote, Mrs Díaz, because then we vote something different than what we apparently say from the rostrum. In the budgets for the current year you had 800 million to boost the industry in Spain. It has lost them - it has lost 800 million euros - and it has only until 31 January to try to get companies to aim to be able to participate in this fund for 400 million euros. In addition, it has abandoned the model we had before, which was to try to get the places most affected by deterioration processes involved in concrete amounts. Let me tell you that they are absolutely incoherent. They talk about price when they rejected our thermal law. They know perfectly well that nuclear energy has to continue and they say they want to take it off. They attack coal, attack gas, put ideological flags on each of the technologies. Their mission, their obligation, is to think of the price guarantee supply; that is their obligation and not to try to use technologies as ideological flags. [[Applauds]] If you want to renegotiate with us and come up with a change so that the Spanish industry has the weight it must have, you can count on us. I announce that if you bring the decree on the relief contract to the Council of Ministers in Barcelona tomorrow, we will validate it, because we are the only ones here who have the capacity to validate that decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Anaya. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u109	Thank you, President. I would like to end by thanking the various speakers. I believe that this has been a constructive debate in which it has become clear that we need to gain momentum, gain weight in the industry, and I believe that we are taking the necessary steps. As I said earlier in my speech, we are at a good time to continue working for the industry. I believe that this royal decree lays the groundwork for creating opportunities for industry and I reiterate this Government's commitment to resolving industrial crises, which is what we are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u110	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u111	We shall now proceed to the debate on the next item on the agenda, amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from this Congress a text of reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary came to the Senate which, despite all its shortcomings, contained positive aspects, such as the setting up of a general council less presidential, more horizontal, more democratic, with requirements of transparency for its members that seemed interesting to us, and when it arrived in the Senate it was enriched with contributions such as those made by my compañeros of Compressis, which improved the conditions of the workers of the Administration of Justice. Unfortunately in this process there has been a great distortion, because as everyone knows when those messages were known... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u114	... in which Mr. Cosidó boasted that the People's Party was going to control that council, Mr. Casado's reaction was more typical of a child's knucklehead than of someone who aspires to be president of the government, because what he did was to introduce in extremis some amendments that what he did was to try to put the method of choosing that general council on top, and that is something that we have seen as regrettable since Compromís. Two things are being done by the People's Party: it is being delegitimized and it is being deauthorized. The current method of choice, which is important, is delegated, because what it does is to establish the choice of all the powers of the State ultimately on which it has national sovereignty. We in Parliament elect the executive, and it is logical that we also intervene in the determination of those who have to govern the judiciary, but without obviously interfering in the jurisdictional function. This is delegated, and at the same time what the People's Party is doing is disallowing all the work its representatives had previously done on the Committee on Justice. I remember that when we were debating the pact for the national justice strategy - in which at the end, by the way, we were left alone the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Compromis - the representatives of the People's Party defended the goodness of a method of election that they themselves - the People's Party - are now questioning from the Senate. This disauthorization also extends to the previous presidents of the People's Party who have been in this country who accepted this method as something of a state, and I recall that Don José María Aznar at the time accepted that this method should be valid and consolidated as something logical in democracy, because I insist that it is the way to entangle the election of that council with popular legitimacy. We therefore do not understand this change. I insist that we don't like anything that there has been a warming that translates into this hoax: it turns out that, as they won't let me play as I want, now I come to break the toy. This is not serious at all, it is a great institutional disloyalty, and of course Compromís will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mrs Ciuro i Buldó, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we enter the last stage to approve or not the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, a proposal for a law that entered into debate in this House as a reform of the Organic Law of Permits and Licenses, and that returns from the Senate as a reform to the Organic Law of the Judiciary; a mutation that was worked in this House by some parliamentary groups that cooked a text that served as a dish of lentils to the rest of the groups, and that when it comes back from the Senate it turns out that in that structural, organizational thing when it comes to appointing the members of the General Council of the Judiciary the People's Group transmuted, it presents a proposal that dates back to 1985 and that it had never defended in this House in the process of drafting this proposal of law, and therefore returns the tornadoes with a text of the Senate that we do not recognize for anything regarding what came out of the Congress and entered into the Senate, being at present another concept. When the Spanish State is going through one of the worst crises in the field of justice, when it turns out that more rigour would be needed when dealing with changes in the governing body of judges, the People's Party turns out to be frivolous. This is the level of recognition, of concern, of the desire to fix the situation that disrupts as I say the justice in Spain, starting with the high levels of the judiciary. All this with the necessary cooperation and cooperation of the Citizen Group, because we have dawned with its leader in Catalonia to advocate for filing a complaint against President Torra, whom some call uncle, for the possible violence they say there will be. With this, Minister, I call you directly - I am sorry - because we are very concerned that the leader of the first opposition party in Catalonia either handles privileged information or is part of groups that advocate violence or is irresponsible. That is why we would like to know whether the Attorney General's Office is going to investigate these manifestations, which we believe are very serious and very irresponsible, and for which this woman should resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u118	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a widely amended text that is referred to us by the Senate for which a broad consensus was reached in this House, achieved after a laborious and long work, being preceded by the derailment at the last minute of the pact for justice, following the successive abandonment of Podemos, Citizens and finally the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which set a very unfavorable mood for the agreements, to which a change of Government was added during the course of the proposal following the motion of censure. Nevertheless, we have reached a broad agreement between different political sensitivities. That is why the Basque Parliamentary Group will not support the changes referred to us by the Senate at this time, except for some technical question, and less so as regards the General Council of the Judiciary after the rapture, as a cleansing Jordan after sin, of a Senate tweet of all known. [[EAJPNV]] This does not mean that we are not willing to talk about anything and at any time. We're not dogmatic people. We're practical people. We like the politics of things and not the things of politics, such as those that are now presented to us; but above all we do not like to be pushed to push us according to other people's mistakes and on accomplished facts. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no perfect models on this issue, but in any of the three existing in our environment - the American, the continental Europe and that of the judicial councils - the political power - read Executive and/or Parliament - it intervenes in the appointment of judges or in the autonomous body entrusted with the judicial status. All these models produce debates and blockades, as we know in the United States, Germany or Belgium. That is why we believe that the problem is not the model of choice, but the logic of the blind quotas between political parties; the one that disagrees with whom the other proposes so that the same one is accepted without any consideration to the professional excellence and the quality of the proposed ones. On the other hand, it cannot be said, as is said for free, that the election of judicial officers by their peers in Spain is a constitutional requirement. The Constitutional Court strongly denies this in its judgements, and literally says that this does not derive from the will of the constituents or from the content of the constitutional text or from the purpose pursued by it or from the same judicial independence. Nor is the General Council of the Judiciary the expression of the self-government of judges and its representation. The only thing that the Constitution points out is that the council in its functions is autonomous and not subordinate to the other powers. Beyond what is said that it is the political power that has been introduced through associations in the council, in order to deploy its influence through judicial governmental offices, in view of the reality, it can be argued that it is judicial corporatism through their associations that is mingled with political powers to often arbitrarily decide on judicial governmental appointments, or that there is a combination or complementarity of both situations in the form of symbiosis. He suspects confirmed when reading in judicial manifestos not promoted by the associations his discomfort, because they literally say that he cannot aspire to judicial appointments without the support of the associations, so that the effort and good work do not get reward in the honorary cursus by the General Council, except affinity with them or friendly relations with some members of the Council. I'm finishing up, President. The General Council is a body with a constitutional dimension and with undoubted significance, and it is not incoherent, from the very idea of separation of powers and the brakes and counterweights of any democratic constitutional system, to compensate for the power given to judges by their majority in the council that administers the statute of the judges with the counterweight of parliamentary designation, which in our model is shared with the judicial career itself through the proposals of judicial vowels that elevate the Chambers for their appointment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as one professor and magistrate of the Supreme pointed out, we are faced with an essentially political problem which affects the balance of power, and which must receive a political solution through a constitutional convention, based on the recovery of consensus between the fundamental points on which coexistence rests and the institutions on which it is based. And that the changes that may occur in their case are the scenario in which everyone, or at least a vast majority, feels represented, according to the joint statement of the four associations of July 1, 2016, which I share. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u120	Bon dia, MPs and MPs. When we learned of the amendments that had been tabled in the Senate this parliamentary group, Esquerra Republicana, proposed an alternative model - which insisted on the procedure of opinion - of the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, an alternative system that became more plural, where minority parties were also taken into account, but no one wanted to talk about the subject, no party. Interestingly enough, a whole series of amendments have now been tabled in the Senate because we are now interested in reforming the General Council of the Judiciary. Which means there's nothing new. Following the debate and the vote on this reform that took place in the Senate, there have not been those necessary changes that both the judiciary and society demanded, and it is no surprise. Having said that, from the Republican Left we have always called for and defended a profound reform of the current model of election of the vowels and of the very essence of the General Council of the Judiciary, a reform that has obviously not been carried out and will not be carried out either. This text is just one more patch to try to make up an obsolete system. During the parliamentary process we try to introduce small changes. However, the lack of political will on the part of some parties has not allowed this. What changes? For example, the designation of the twenty vowels under the principle of equal presence of men and women, in order to avoid photographs as embarrassing as those of the beginning of the judicial course. We postulate that each of the Chambers of the Courts elects by a three-fifth majority two men and two women between jurists of recognized competence and with more than fifteen years in the exercise of their profession, to form the eight members mandated by the Constitution. As for the members of the judiciary, we have sought to incorporate a criterion to break with the bipartisan tradition and the distribution of members between the two major parties, and to generate a need for dialogue and consensus among the majority of parliamentary groups. In this way, what we wanted was for the two major parties to be able not to ignore, but to agree with, parliamentary minorities. Having to agree with all minorities makes it possible to make progress not only in plurality, but not in choosing the most identified member with a party, but also a competent one with more consensus. We proposed the deletion - this is more technical - of the first paragraph of article 570 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to avoid parliamentary filibusterism for partisan interests. We understand that if the Chambers had not made the election of the members of the Council within the statutory deadline - this is also a proposal of this group - we would allow the members of the outgoing Council to continue in office, and until then we would not be able to proceed to the election of a new President. [[Rumors]] However, we were setting a provisional deadline so that this could not be completed, as will be the case. What we intend and want is a model of justice... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u121	Excuse me, Mrs. Telechea. Excuse me a second. Mrs. Martin, I hear you perfectly. Please, can you turn the tone down a little bit? Thank you. Go ahead, Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u122	Thank you. We want a model of justice for Catalonia, we want to put into operation the Council of Justicia de Catalunya because, we reiterate, it was time to be able to incorporate it in this reform, being recognized in our status of autonomy, and that moreover this Council was not subject to the Executive Power. We also wanted a different model of opposition to the judicial career, such as the one that currently exists, and we also wanted to address the reform on the official language of the autonomous communities, that is, many, many more amendments. It is a very deep debate that we should address. Esquerra Republicana is totally contrary to the corporate choice of judges, a system that, if approved, will be consolidated in this reform. In short - and I am finishing - as long as we change the model of the General Council of the Judiciary as the governing body of the judges, as long as we maintain the current model of the judiciary we will not move forward. We need a deep reflection on the model of the judiciary we have and the one we want, we need reforms of great magnitude that go beyond the model of choice of the vowels. That is why we will vote against the amendments tabled in the Senate, as they only favour and consolidate a system based on partisan interests and away from the demands of the judiciary itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today could be the day when we exalt here the well-known phrase of 'I already said it', but I do not think that is the important thing. Today could be the day on which we all remembered the debate held here not so many dates ago, hardly on 30 October of the same year, and it seems that years have passed, but it was a very short time ago. And it is that today, ladies and gentlemen, it is to take advantage of a historic opportunity to correct what is a long-standing and sustained error, and which has led to discrediting the judicial career; we have the opportunity to rectify that pernicious system of election of the governing body of the judges, of the General Council of the Judiciary. I want to explain briefly why my group is going to vote in favour of all the amendments as adopted in the Senate, and I think I have to explain this because we are the only group that voted against the opinion of the law, as it came out of this House. Therefore, if it is up to someone to explain the corrections, it is up to our group, to Citizens. And we will vote in favour of all the amendments that have come forward in the Senate because we believe they correct the fundamental errors contained in that bill. They rectify very important professional areas, all that refers to the leave of judges, prosecutors and officials of the Administration of Justice; improves the conditions of retirement of officials of the Administration of Justice; includes something that we have been demanding for a long time and that we believe is an absolutely necessary professional demand: the supplement on the professional career not only for judges and magistrates, but for all justice workers; and also corrects some changes in the working conditions of all workers in the field of justice that had been adopted without the necessary collective bargaining. All these amendments make it possible to correct the main errors of that opinion, and we will therefore vote in favour of them all. The fundamental point of this bill, however, is that the citizens' amendments that have been incorporated into the Senate make it possible to take advantage of a historic occasion. I want to start by saying something about yesterday's intervention by the minister, answering a question from my colleague Juan Carlos Girauta. This is by no means a problem of democratic legitimacy of the judiciary. Not at all, there is a total blur when you use the concept of democratic legitimation to legitimize the system of choice of vowels. When article 117 says that justice emanates from the people as a result of that principle already contained in article 1.2, that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from which all the powers of the State emanate, what he is talking about is that the judiciary is at all an autonomous power. It does not translate that into the popular election of judges and magistrates, at least I understand for those groups that defend a model of liberal democracy and representative democracy, that I so far understood that the Socialist Party was what it was defending; it does not translate into the popular election of judges and magistrates - other groups have legitimately defended it, but I did not believe that it was its model - even in the parliamentary election of the governing body of judges and magistrates. It translates only and exclusively into the fact that judges and judges, as they are not self-governing, are subject only to the rule of law; the law as an expression of national sovereignty, the law as an expression of popular will, the law emanating from the people. That is what Article 117 means when it says that justice emanates from the people, and not what you interpret. [[Applauds]] Beyond that today this is basically to listen; to listen, Minister; to listen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to whom I am addressing fundamentally. Listen to society, listen to all professional associations of judges and prosecutors; listen to and read that 14-point manifesto that you so fervently defended, Minister, when you were not yet. The first point of those claims was precisely to regain the direct choice of council members by judges and magistrates. Listen to all the professional groups, but I also ask you to listen to someone who has been quoted here repeatedly, and who seems to me to be the main argument for us to support the system proposed by Citizens, and who comes here and that we have the opportunity to ratify in Congress. Listen to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said in its 1986 ruling that the current system of parliamentary election of the twenty members was constitutional, but I will read you a paragraph of what the Constitutional Court was saying - because Mr Legarda mentioned it, but he mentioned only one part; he did not want to continue reading Mr Legarda -. The Constitutional Court says: The combination of these twelve judicial deputies, with eight from other fields of law, would lead to ensuring that the composition of the council reflects the pluralism existing within society, and especially within the judiciary, and this goal is more easily achieved by assigning to the judges and magistrates themselves the power to elect twelve of the members of the General Council of the judiciary. And he says: The formula adopted - that of the parliamentary election - carries a number of risks, as it would be: to distribute the seats to be filled among the various parties in proportion to their parliamentary strength. And he dares to comment on the Constitutional Court: moving the logic of the party state to such actions would not be appropriate. Constitutional logic requires that certain areas of power, including the judiciary, be kept out of the struggle of parties. The Constitutional Court therefore states in the following paragraph that the existence and even the likelihood of such a risk, created by a precept that makes possible, although not necessary, an action contrary to the spirit of the constitutional norm, seems to recommend its replacement. This is what the Constitutional Court says, listen to him. The Constitutional Court in 1986 warns of the existence of a certain risk of transferring the logic of parties, from the partisan division of the chairs of the General Council of the Judiciary to an area that, according to the constitutional logic, is not appropriate, like that of the governing body of the Judiciary, and that is why it asks the Constitutional Court itself, as early as 1986, to replace that model. What was then a risk you have made it a usual practice for so many years, which has led to the discrediting of the governing body of the judges, and so, as this is going to be heard, as this is going to restore credibility in justice, this goes so far as today we ratify the amendments that come from the Senate, which speak of the election by those judges and magistrates of the twelve vowels, and we take advantage of this historic opportunity. Listen, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, listen, if I do not think you are going to put the General Council of the Judiciary in a situation of nothing desirable blockade at a time like this, when we cannot afford it, taking risks to the independence of the judiciary at the worst time to delegitimize the governing body and the judiciary itself in any way. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by thanking the spokesman for the People's Party, Mrs María Jesús Moro, for her work and her unveiling so that this agreement, which is possible today, can be reached here in the House. I do not know what will happen in the vote, I do not know what will happen this afternoon when you vote, but of course I want to thank you for your work, which you have found fruit, and from now on I do not know if you can continue to say what you once said to me: how strange that we can both agree. You see that we can agree, and of course we can agree on many more things to improve the situation of our justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u126	I left where I left off. Good morning. We are discussing here a number of last-minute amendments in the Senate, some of which technically improve proposals that had been made in the field of work, to which we will not oppose, but nobody is missing that the main reason for the debate we are having here is the introduction at last-minute of a different system of appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is therefore grabbing the core of all the interventions. We have already announced that we will vote no to that amendment. We shall vote only for two reasons: for reasons of form and for reasons of substance. As for the former, the reasons of form, you will allow me to make a brief compilation of what the Confederal Group's position on the National Justice Strategy and on other issues has been. It is true that we started a dialogue this legislature with regard to the national strategy, it is true that we left that dialogue because we understood, and so we questioned the minister at that time, that there was no reliable situation; it was a situation in which the People's Party was clinging to a table of salvation in justice to solve procedural problems. It is true that we are talking about the Permits and Licenses Act, in which you introduced fifty amendments. It is true that we are beginning to talk about those fifty amendments. And it is true that we started a dialogue to change a situation that we thought was urgent, the degradation of justice as perceived by citizens and focused on the General Council of the Judiciary. Here we told them what was a priority for us and ourselves: the repeal of Organic Law 4/2013, which you passed with an absolute majority, and the incorporation of multiple recommendations of the Greek system, especially with regard to transparency in the appointment of senior officials. There we give up other nuclear issues on our agenda such as changing the model of designation or opening the debate on the model of election. And you know it. In addition, we said other things to those who wanted to hear about the renewal of the council. We said that social plurality should be respected in the appointment of the council, that profiles should be drawn with marked integrity, seeing where we came from. We said that labels between conservatives and progressives had to be avoided in order to prevent the council from coming out marked by the drag of mediating its function previously. And we said that this debate had to be done in a parliamentary way. And the disaster happened, the disaster happened in that negotiation, a disaster that you solved internally by revving the possibility that this system could even work from the start and revving the possibility that it would have greater credibility. They did so through a last-minute tweet and a last-minute sloppy amendment in the Senate, without previous debate, breaking the agreement we had and without respecting any kind of dialogue. [[Applauds]] Remember this day well because after this day you cannot tell us that you are constitutionalists when you do not respect the spirit of what the Judgment of the Constitutional Court that has already been mentioned, 108/1986, said as to how political parties should conduct themselves. Do not talk to us again about consensus when consensus serves only to do what is right for you and, if not, you are able to get ahead of the institutions. We and we defend institutions because they are the only thing that protects the weak from the powerful and there we plant ourselves. [[Applauds]] I shall refer very briefly to the substance of the matter. It's very clear. This system is as legitimate as any other - and it has already been referred to - as long as the way in which this negotiation should be conducted is respected. There is much talk of the politicization of justice. And who's talking about the judicialization of politics? Why does politics have to leave judges in a dark room and turn off the light and, under the prism of sacrosanct judicial independence, not know what a trade union group can do - and this too is a risk even if the Constitutional Court does not say so - to act with respect to its own interests? If we do not agree that in the diagnosis of this situation it is so much those who have been interested in handling judicial proceedings for their procedural interests - not general interests - as those judges who, renouncing their duties and integrity, have taken that phone and have done things they should not, and are non-political judges and judges; if we do not agree on that diagnosis, how will we move forward? [[Applauds]] In short, the objective of judicial independence depends on multiple factors, some that are introduced into this law and others that we lack in a complex debate such as access to the judicial career or the disciplinary system, fine-tuning in the mechanisms for the appointment of senior judicial officers or the transparency of the proceedings. What cannot be done is to steal the debate and introduce at the last minute an amendment loading the dialogue through a populist formula, cheap and ineffective, which is only addressed to a guild audience, a technically grievous amendment or, as Mr Mariano would say, an occurrence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos Itoiz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Prendes, I have to admit that, after hearing you, you have made me change all my speech, because I remember that Freudian concept of the voice of reason is soft, but it does not rest until it is heard. It seems that this is what has happened with the change in the model of the General Council of the Judiciary. Do you really believe that? Look, in one thing I do agree with you, from October 30th to here - it's true what Victor Jara taught us that life is eternal in five minutes - what has happened. But it's good to remember for a reason, because that's what's going to set us up and, besides, I haven't heard it from any of the interveners. On 30 October we discussed a proposal to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary on leave and leave of absence. There was a package of amendments - my group tabled very few - that affected the organisation and functioning of the Council and we achieved a broad consensus, and another package that, for the sake of brevity, I do not even mention. It is true that your group has maintained a consistent position. He tabled amendments which had no support here, except for that of his group. In the transit to the Senate, things actually happened that are unbuilding for a democratic system and that led the People's Group to present - with very little technique, that only the generosity of the groups allowed it to correct - an amendment that stuck a Copernican turn to its approach, and that led us to the model of election of the judicial vowels by the judges; but in the Senate things happen. That is approved in the Commission's opinion, but - because of a question that the People's Parliamentary Group will have to find out, if it is interested in finding out, because perhaps certain wasaps could have produced certain consequences that would not have deteriorated the system so much - when there is no reaction by political parties or parliamentary groups, it gives the impression that other things are happening and then we have to force the machine in another way. What's going on? That because of these circumstances that circulate between the guilty human error and the malicious human error, the People's Group does not vote for itself and what remains in force is the proposal that was adopted in this House. What's going on? That citizens, consistent, maintains their amendments of direct choice by the judges, who are on which the People's Party supports itself today to get its neck out here as it can. That's the reality. Let us forget, because if something can be said is that we should stop talking about legal-parliamentary issues and talk about principles and values that should govern our lives, and I believe that coherence is one of them, coherence, as behavior and predictability of our behavior. And if anything has denoted the People's Group, it is a huge inconsistency. That inconsistency does not concern me any more than is necessary, except that we are talking about a constitutional organ of the State and how to choose it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for anything to come out that magnifies democracy and fills that instrument that created the constituent in 1978 with those vavenes that I have just described, because the council deserves, to begin with, more respect, justice deserves more respect and the citizens deserve more respect. That said, what's going on? Look, let's think about what model of advice we want. I know it is not the debate and that with a minute and thirty seconds it is very difficult to explain it, but I will tell you one thing, I have been a member of the council and I have never rejected the expression 'judicial policy', but it is not only that I do not reject it, but that I repeat it. Why? Because the only thing that judicial policy says is that I'm alluding to those spaces where decisions are made have a political assessment, and that's the General Council of the Judiciary. There is a very easy political assessment, when a citizen claims his ground clause no one can interfere, independence and absolute submission of the judge only to the rule of law, and no one can intervene. On the other hand, if the General Council of the Judiciary takes a political decision, on judicial policy, on which courts are going to see these claims for ground clauses, how is it not going to be politically evaluable? It must be. And that is what leads to the position of my parliamentary group, which we must not abandon, because it is important that the subject of sovereignty, that is, the Chambers, be part of that legitimation outside any viable space. That's why it's necessary... Yes, yes, I see you can count to eight, Mr. Prendes. What I want to say to you is that it is important that we put justice where it belongs, in the portico of the Constitution, and that is done from absolute respect and not with a few vavenes that they do is to denigrate the justice system and the constitutional body that must govern their policies. That's why I hope your model doesn't succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Campo Moreno. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u130	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before we begin the subject before us, allow me, on behalf of my group, to express my revulsion at this mini-summit announced by the Government with those who really want to abduct the rights and freedoms of Catalans. Minister, please stop him. [[Applauds]] According to article 3 of the Civil Code, they know that the rules will be interpreted according to the context and social reality of the time when they are to be applied. This interpretative approach replaces, in part, the traditional delay in updating the rules, which, as you know, is the responsibility of the General Courts, which, according to article 66 of the Constitution, represent the Spanish people and exercise legislative power. It concludes, therefore, in this context the processing of a proposal for a law of our parliamentary group, which was always a modification of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, without any transmutation. Many have been the vicissitudes of parliamentary processing, but despite these vicissitudes and thanks to the work and responsibility of the parliamentary groups we have made progress in the realization of demands of the judicial, prosecutorial, lawyers and staff of the Administration of Justice. The short time that we have, given the interventions, obliges me to refer, however, to other amendments that have been incorporated into the Senate and that determine this model change that has been discussed here, the model change in the election of judicial extractors in the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been opened in the Senate is an option regarding the model of election, an option demanded by a high social cry, and we cannot afford to miss the opportunity to listen and attend to that social cry. From now on, critics will be able to close their interventions, because it will be impossible for them to justify it. Look, we've been in this debate a long time, and that determines really ridiculous positions. Many of you have been criticizing the current law and this model to the point of satiety and today defend it with nails and teeth and grab it there as if it had no end, as if there was no tomorrow. It was unconstitutional, and the Constitutional Court said it was. But then, still, they didn't like it, they didn't want to join, they didn't want to contribute to institutional stability. To this ridiculous it joins that the Minister of Justice - today she is with us - only a month after his appointment has passed from raising the banner of the claims, supporting this measure, the fourteen proposals of the judicial and fiscal associations, to denying it with the same impetus with which he had previously defended it on the street. [[Applauds]] That is true, Minister, attributing the momentum of this reform - it is in our Journal of Sessions - and it has had no participation. Well, really, he has had a turn that we have to denounce: he puts a face ahead and he puts sticks behind the wheel, trying to avoid measures of modernization, of improvement for justice. Moreover, it lacks respect for this House, and yesterday it did so again. You can't get ahead of yourself, Minister, it's a little ugly, really, it's a little ugly, don't do it. Perhaps that cannot be understood as a pressure on judicial associations in their claims, I hope not, because I think you are better-intentioned than you seem, but it is very ugly. I must therefore appeal to the responsibility of the parliamentary groups, to continue with the same conviction they had when we agreed, not to look at where the amendments came from. Citizens have joined late, but welcome, they have joined, because we have tried the consensus that was essential for these changes. We have to keep looking into the eyes of the judicial career, we have to keep looking into the eyes of society. Therefore, it is not possible to understand it - and I am now addressing Podemos -; how can you defend, Mr Santos, after your spokesman, Mrs Belarus, exactly a month ago, on the 20th, in this video that you can see in several minutes said that today more than ever we had to change the model of choice of the judicial system, that we should reflect. We reflected, and my president, my group and my party said: we dare, we put it on the table. We have that historic opportunity, thirty-five years later. Help us, because the organ of the judges is in a very complicated situation and, look, I personally have not changed my mind, and my group, too, must only go back to the electoral programmes. We have been seeking the greatest consensus and the greatest peace, but at the moment society is asking us, they are not comfortable. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to argue that the parliamentary model is not unconstitutional, it is not against the Greek report. You know I've said it many times and I'll keep saying it, we haven't been able to defend it. Parliament is not the problem, because if Parliament is the problem, then society is the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, stop blaming the other, stop blaming the chachacha, it's not the chachacha's fault, it's not that some people get a little brave. You're taking advantage of some bravado that didn't have to be produced. What is essential is that we do not leave it any more touched, and that each one in our responsibilities and with humility, with self-criticism, as my group has done, we take this opportunity; as a good father with his son, let us let fly, let us try this system, let us trust our professionals. My group trusts them. Speakers of the Commission, ask their groups to use our rules of consensus and even of friendship. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, ON EMERGENCY MEASURES IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STATE COVENANT ON GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/00220]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u132	We move on to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary on urgent measures to implement the State Covenant on Gender Violence. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u133	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that it is difficult just this week to discuss, talk and reason on issues of male violence, and it is difficult because I think there has been news that has shocked everyone. [[rumors]] But unfortunately, even though there's been a murder... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u135	They don't seem to be very interested in sexist violence. [[One honourable Member: Yes, we are interested.-Mrs. Blanco Garrido: That's all right! That's it!]] They could listen a little and not interrupt the speakers so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not talk to the Member in the rostrum. I don't mean anyone; I mean, in general, whoever did it. Go ahead, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u137	Thank you. He said that it is difficult because there has been a murder that has shocked us, that has shocked society, but it will not be considered macho violence because, although it was killed, although it seems that it was raped, it was not done by his partner or his ex-partner and, therefore, it will not be considered macho violence because there was no couple relationship. Today we discussed the formation of the judges in the last process of this reform, and I wondered if anyone would imagine a world in which, in the face of a report of theft, they would ask someone if they were carrying the wallet too visible; I wondered if anyone imagined a world in which they could absolve someone from a robbery because the victim had not shouted enough; if they imagined a world in which a judge reduced a conviction of theft with intimidation to a thief, because the complainant had made theater; if anyone imagined a world in which someone asked why someone did not change from the neighborhood, did not change his home, did not change his life, when he found out that a thief lived nearby. [[applause]] I can't imagine, but unfortunately this world exists and is the world of women, and that is the justice that we are given. It's a world where a judge asks us if we taught too much meat and that's why we provoked sexual assault. It's the world where a judge sees a porn movie in videos of a gang rape. It's the world where, when you were a child, a judge can understand that you exaggerate sexual assault, that you stage suffering. It's the world where we're still wondering why we don't move out of the neighborhood so our attackers don't kill us. This world, unfortunately, exists. It is the world of women, it is our world; a world that we do not like and do not want to live in; a world in which justice, judges and society continue to question and blame us; an unjust world, tremendously unjust for us. And this world can only change it by teaching the whole of society, and especially men, that we are also people, by deconstructing sexism; and we can only change it by ending, precisely, with patriarchal justice that puts the focus on us and not on our aggressors. [[Applauds]] This world only changes by getting women to be people, in front of judges and in front of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u139	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a text on the Organic Law on the Reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary in implementation of the State Pact on Gender Violence, after its passage through the Senate, and that we are already in favour of voting in accordance with the broad consensus expressed in this House, such as that previously expressed in this Congress. This law addresses a serious problem that has been widely identified, and that relates to the judicial response to violence against women, which is the lack of specialized training to ensure that the statements and complaints of abused women are not ignored, to create special sensitivity among judges, magistrates and prosecutors, to provide them with specific training to guarantee and protect the rights of women subjected to violence, and because the judicial system must incorporate and internalize what this violence means and how it manifests itself. See how the 1993 United Nations General Assembly resolution describes it as an obstacle to achieving equality, development and peace goals, undermining the human rights and fundamental freedoms of women, as a consequence of power relations and the misunderstanding of obligations by States in three areas: abuse of partnership, sexual assault on social life and harassment and discrimination in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a violation of their human rights and a form of discrimination, as noted in the Istanbul Convention and the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women of May 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a social scourge - in 2018 we have 46 murdered women - it is a structural violence that requires responses from all angles and whose origin is nothing other than structural inequality between women and men, whose most brutal manifestation is that violence rooted in our societies. Much remains to be done to break the social, economic, legal, cultural and judicial inertias and to address the aforementioned inertias. Specifically with regard to the latter, the judiciary, we approved the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, with the aim of ensuring that victims of male-based violence are cared for by specialized personnel, judges, magistrates and prosecutors who empathize with their problems, in addition to extending the specialized courts of violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will be a step further, albeit not definitive, in order to ensure that women's freedom and equality between men and women are effective, a step further apart from those taken so far since Organic Law 11/2013, from measures relating to gender-based violence, through those who incorporated the protection order or which was adopted to give effect to equality between men and women, as well as the many that have been agreed upon by virtually all autonomous communities and local authorities. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we will adopt this law with a very broad consensus, with unanimity. We've got a lot to do, like I said. We are now approaching the framework for judges, magistrates and prosecutors to have specialized training and to extend the specialized judicial bodies, which is a reason for satisfaction, but not for complacency, as long as we do not eradicate that shameful social scourge to which we honestly believe it does not help to qualify the social, institutional and legal response against this social scourge as of gender ideology, as leaders of the right and of the Spanish far right have begun to do. This means categorizing measures to eradicate violence against women as something opinionable, as an ideology more within our societies, rather than considering them as something unavailable, for they seek to avoid a serious violation of women's human rights, for this is violence against women: a violation of their human rights, and their reparation is not the content of an ideology more; it is the defense of something much deeper, it is the defense of a civilizational value: their human rights. Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Republican Left Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u141	Bon dia, MPs and MPs. We are here today thanks to the will of all. We are here today because it seems that we are finally becoming aware that we must walk together if we are to end the macho violence, sexual violence and the murder of women at the hands of men. From Esquerra Republicana we will not tire of fighting until we achieve a society free of prejudice, ending the heteropatriarchal roles that prevail in our society and that always end in an idea of very concrete and largely accepted masculinity that translates into the hegemony of domination. Today we are adopting a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on gender-based violence that comes from the Senate, to which few amendments have also been tabled. I welcome the fact that we have a very broad consensus on this issue, because we must not only raise awareness of the society in which we live, but also of the judicial system itself. All women have the right to a trial with all guarantees, and that will never be possible if the judge who has to decide whether the bruise on the face or the broken rib made it alone or was the result of the brutal beating of his partner is a sexist, such as Judge Francisco Javier Martínez Derqui, holder of the Court of Violence on Women No. 7 in Madrid, or as the magistrate who issued the particular vote by which he requested the acquittal of the five violators of the herd. It is clear that he is not going to have a trial with all the guarantees, nor is he going to receive the protection that the law grants him. The victims of sexist violence and all the citizens have the right to effective judicial protection, not to be questioned or removed from our statements, since, as I said in my previous intervention, the vast majority of cases and aggressions, whether physical or psychic, occur in the most intimate sphere of the family, where there are almost never witnesses, are only the victim himself - who has also gone through a very harsh internal process until he can denounce - and his aggressor. Therefore, judges and magistrates must have a special sensitivity to this issue, specific training to ensure that victims will be guaranteed and protected their rights. This is the objective of this reform, which introduces evidence of specialization in violence against women with the aim of ensuring that women judges acquire specific knowledge in this field both in the opposition phase to the judicial and fiscal career and in the theoretical-practical course of the Judicial School, in addition to having continuous training throughout their career. The only way to eradicate this scourge forever is not only to be aware of the fact that macho violence exists, but also to have the duty to do what is in our hands and more to put an end to it. I'm done. This is not about political choices, because they don't mistreat us for our political color, they don't assault us for our culture, they don't kill us for our ideas, they do it uniquely and exclusively because they are women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u143	Thank you very much, President. After listening to yesterday's unfortunate speeches, I have turned a thousand times to whether or not to do so, but I do not think I can go up to this rostrum today to talk about a bill that sets in motion measures against macho violence and not do the same thing that unfortunately I have had to do on so many other occasions when a woman has been murdered. I would therefore like to extend our sincere condolences, on behalf of my group and my own, to Laura's family and friends. She was a young woman with a promising future ahead whose life has been reaped by a monster, as she called - and I think rightly - these rapists and murderers. This is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, and it is our responsibility to ask ourselves what to do to ensure greater security for women in this case, but we must do so in a spirit of consensus, thinking truly of them and not of the partisan interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the show that took place yesterday from this Chamber during the control session was embarrassing. First, Mr Casado used the permanent, reviewable prison to attack the Socialist Party, when the truth is that it has neither been repealed nor is going to be repealed, and you know it. It also posed it as if it were the magic solution to everything, as if it had been possible to avoid Laura's murder. I wish, but it's not like that. If Laura's killer had been sentenced to permanent reviewable prison when he committed the first crime, he could have already obtained the third degree in 2010, would have been in semi-freedom, and previously he could have enjoyed prison permits. [[applause]] Let us therefore talk about the effective enforcement of sentences and of our prison system in general and let us see why it does not work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Party, it is very dangerous to try to deceive public opinion in this way. Stop giving simple solutions to matters that are much more complex than you say. Stop demagogying at once, please, in the first place, because they lie and, in the second place, because the only thing they get with that is that they come out more and more populisms. I must say that Mrs.Belara, who is not here today, spokesman for Unite Podemos, continued, unfortunately, with that infamous spectacle, as she herself described it. It started well, but then it went wrong, in my opinion, in my humble opinion, because little less than it blamed the People's Party for the murders of women in our country, using also slogans that simplify this terrible reality that is macho violence. They are simplifying it so much and sometimes in such a ridiculous way - I have to say it too - that the message is going to stay in nothing. Moreover, they cannot use all this to attack other women who are also fighting for equality and freedom for all. [[Applauds]] This is unthinkable in the feminism that many of us defend, and I really think it's a shame. The Members of Podemos who are on the Equality Commission know that in many respects we agree only Podemos and Citizens, but their sectarianism prevents them from seeing beyond and, worse, gives wings to the machismo that always seeks the minimum to justify the unjustifiable. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal here to the responsibility of all, including that of my group and mine, in dealing with a matter like this. We cannot leave behind the consensus that was obtained with the State Pact. Please, let's keep all groups in this line. It became clear that there were many things in common: 214 consensual measures among all. There are many of them, and I think that is what society expects of us, that we should legislate and that those rules should be put into effect. That simple. This report of the presentation that now returns from the Senate will - we hope - become the first law to implement measures of the State Pact against Macho Violence. Returns to Congress with a series of changes proposed by the Cermi that improve the bill. Basically, it is stipulated that judicial units are fully accessible to persons with disabilities, although it is regrettable that we have to introduce them here when this should already be a fact, and statistical information in terms of the possible disability of victims is also improved. That is why, in keeping with the spirit I was talking about, I am moving forward, as we will vote in favour of the amendments incorporated in the Senate. I take this opportunity to announce that Citizens have submitted a bill to eliminate forced sterilization affecting women and girls with disabilities. Let us hope that you will also get the support of this House. I finish my speech by saying that this proposal for a law improves the training of judges in the field of macho violence, which is important but certainly not sufficient. As we have said on other occasions, we should have used it to include in a single initiative all the measures of the pact that involve legislative development, but we will work to ensure that the other draft law that develops them, still under way in this House, is adopted as soon as possible and, of course, we will also work to have it adopted with our amendments, which are precisely what they are doing, trying to incorporate all those measures into the pact, which the Socialist Party did not do at the time it was supposed to do. It has to be said that, as it could not be otherwise, all groups have agreed to ask for hours in January in order to be able to work on that paper and for the bill to be passed as soon as possible. I conclude by expressing some concern about an issue that was in some way left half in this state pact. It is a concern that arises from many messages that we are reading these days on social networks questioning that sexual violence is male violence. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that 96.4% of crimes against sexual freedom with conviction have been committed by men and only 3.6% by women. Sexual violence is sexist violence and as such must be treated. We say that, statistics say that and the Istanbul Convention, which should have been implemented already in our legislation, also says that. And this does not mean that all men are potential rapists or that they kill us all, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u145	Thank you, President. Good morning. [[Start your intervention in Galician.-Applause]] It is our task today to evaluate the amendments that come back from the Senate of this reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary for urgent measures on the state pact. I said it when I intervened a while ago, a few weeks ago in this rostrum on this same subject and we believe again that the note is insufficient. There are some new amendments that have to do with women with disabilities, and we think it is great, because they are issues that we have discussed in the State Pact and that are of consensus, but, of course, all those that had to do with expanding the concept of macho violence, as we had agreed in the State Pact and as the whole country thinks we have to do, have not been accepted either by the Socialist Party or by the People's Party. So let's make it clear: the Socialist Party and the People's Party consider that if your husband rapes you, it's machismo, but if a stranger rapes you it's not. This is what this law says and it is really troubling. [[Applauds]] What was missing from this law and why are we concerned? The courts and their powers have not been expanded. There will be no further trial and no specific training in each form of violence. But why are we particularly concerned this week? For two things have happened; the first of them is that the anniversary of Anne Orantes was fulfilled and on the same day they murdered Laura Luelmo. These two murders are two paradigms, two different forms of how we have worked with legislators and legislators in Machist violence. For cases such as those of Orantes we have worked and much, we have improved, we have learned to quantify, to repair better and to avoid better that happens, because we accept that in marriages this violence can exist, we accept that they are isolated and individual issues, but for cases such as the girls of Alcàsser, Marta del Castillo, Diana Quer and Laura Luelmo we are not doing it, we continue to say in the law that this is not machismo, and this in the year 2018, in the year of March 8, in the year in which feminism has become the center of the debate of this House, cannot be consented to. That is why the result of this law is highly disappointing, and it must be said even more when it has been a proposal by the Socialist Party and when we have a government that considers itself a feminist. We would like it to be so, because, of course, we do not want any more policies from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We are particularly concerned because if things had been otherwise, if Laura were now alive, things would probably have happened as a result of the concrete ones that we want to change. If I had died and had children, they wouldn't have a pension. If she had been raped and had to go to a courthouse and survived, like so many other victims, she would not have had accompaniment, she would not have had help and she would not have had a lot of things that we do recognize other women. And what does this produce in us? It produces fear. I was scared this week. My mother wrote to me again saying: Be careful, Angelina, because people are very crazy about this topic and things can happen. It's a laugh for many men and also for many women that many women are afraid of, the problem is that when you have a sexual assault, you don't forget it and you know it can be repeated again. This week's case is that what's behind this is patriarchy; it's not a husband, it's not a cousin, it's not a brother, it's not a known person, it's not your boss, it's an unknown person, it's a completely random matter, it can happen to anyone when we come home alone and that's what scares us. That's why we want to change the law, because anyone can pass us. It's called patriarchy. [[Applauds]] It scares even more because it's been this year, the year that women have been more empowered than ever; it scares even more because it happens to a girl who is running alone on the street, as if this were the biggest symbol of empowerment, and it scares even more because for the first time we have a political party - it's not that before there were others who thought it, I don't know, I won't judge it - that now she dares to say that what happens to women when we suffer sexual assaults is false, it's false!, when every three months there are more than 40,000 women who report being subjected to sexist violence and there are men from some parties in this House who are willing to agree with those who say that sexism is false. [[Applauds]] That's why I want to say two things today. Laura Luelmo's case cannot become a symbol of the failure of what we women have done this year. We have to get back together, we have the same plans, but let's make new strategies. It is clear that machismo not only has to do with what our husband does in bed or what he does at home, machismo is something that can happen to anyone, let's be where we are and let's be who we are, to all women. That is why today I am not going to say anything to my colleagues, to whom I am grateful that they all have feminist commitments, those of the left and those of the right, because I know that they all have them. Today I'm going to appeal to the men. I know there are men who agree with those who say that sexism is false, but to those I am not going to say anything at all, we will see each other in the ballot box, but to the others, who do believe that we have a problem with sexist violence, I invite them to convince other men to please defend women's lives, because this is to be a good patriot, this is to be a good Spanish and a good name, to defend women's lives as we do. [[Applauds]] So please take it seriously because we are in time to change it, even if this law is disappointing. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cuello Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u147	Thank you, President. We cannot consent, Angela, to say here that the Socialist Party is not working on sexual assaults, because we are going to work, in accordance with what has been approved in the state pact, on a law in which we have all had consensus within that pact, a specific law on sexual assaults. [[Mrs Rodríguez Martínez utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, there's a pact that says that a sexual assault law is going to be passed, so I don't understand why you made that speech, like you're the only ones who want this law to be passed in the House. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Martínez: Ours, ours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u148	Mrs. Rodriguez, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u149	Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by showing the pain of the whole House, of society as a whole, for the murder of Laura. With every macho murder we are frustrated by all the political representatives, but we must also be filled with reasons to continue to seek solutions to the violence that women suffer in their many forms, which are many. Today I would like to give voice here in the House to messages I have read this week on social media to make us think, but also to make us work or to act on the right path. And I quote: Virginia: We have to work to live without fear because that can't be just a dream; Ana Bernal: Although some people don't like it, the only solution is called feminism, feminism in justice, in communication, in culture, feminism in education; Mabel Lozano: What if we talk about how to educate men not to be rapists, murderers or prostitutes?; Angels Barceló: Women want to go without fear for life, we want not to have to listen to sexist speeches that question violence against women; Flor de Torre: The fight against gender-based violence needs accomplices; Miguel Lorente: Everything happens in the face of the passivity of a society doped with sexism. What kind of society and masculinity do we have so that there are men who decide to assault women, sexually assault them in many cases and then murder them? As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and this initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group that is returning from the Senate is on that path, responding to a clear need that during the period of elaboration of the State Pact against Gender Violence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u150	Excuse me, Mrs. Cuello. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, please, a little silence. It is a personal subject of Mrs Cuello, who has a problem with her voice, and I would ask you, please, for a special silence so that I do not have to force her. Go ahead, Mrs. Cuello.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u151	...we were sent by the experts, representatives of civil society and institutional representatives. The gender specialisation of all legal actors involved with victims of gender-based violence is urgent and essential. We will support the final text, which is improved with Senate amendments. I would particularly like to highlight, as has been said here in the House, the suggestions that Cermi has made, linked to improving the care of women with disabilities in the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing too many cases where the judicial system double-victimizes women, questions them, does not believe them, and sentences that do not protect them hurt us. It is essential and urgent for justice to incorporate a gender perspective and for legal operators to have adequate training. It is essential that the courts be a source of protection for women and not a hell where they are not understood, as many of them tell us. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we are concerned about the fact that your speech on equality has been taking place lately, both on the merits of the demonstrations that have openly been broadcast here in the House and on the adoption of language. We are concerned not only with the speech, but also with its position, a position that is trying to whitewash in my land, Andalusia, a party that has in its program to eliminate the Law against Gender Violence. We cannot reverse what has been achieved during this decade by the feminist movement and by the consensus of political forces. The Citizens' Group was not going to comment on it, but it has made it very easy for me with the intervention made by its spokesman and the data he has given on sexual assaults. It wouldn't be bad if they were passed on to the comrades who are negotiating in Andalusia, so that Vox would know what he is dealing with and the importance of sexual assaults in this country. [[Applauds]] Return to the attitude of seeking solutions against machismo that bet on the prevention of gender-based violence and aimed at building free lives and safe lives for women. I conclude, President, with a question for everyone and everyone who is here today: Has the time come for us to teach girls to resist harassment through various strategies of avoidance or has the time come to teach children who have no right to harass? What is clear, and we will approve it here today, is that it is time for the Administration of Justice to know what are the parameters that act in relation to violence against women, because without that specialization we will be faced with a justice that places the normative emphasis on parameters that do not value the situation of structural and personal oppression that we women suffer, and that cannot put an end to our freedom and security. That is why this rule is so urgent and so necessary that we adopt it today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuello. Mrs Alba Mullor has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be a reminder to the last victim of violence against women, a young woman who has been vilely murdered because she was a woman and stumbled upon a killer without bowels. Women refuse to live in fear and from the public authorities it is our duty to ensure that this is our society, that we can carry out any activity, alone or not, without fear of being attacked by the mere fact of being women. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to focus on this initiative. We conclude the parliamentary process of a proposal for an organic law that has had the broadest parliamentary support in both Houses, which has been clarified, expanded and improved with the contributions of this group, because, yes, the amendments actually came from Cermi, but the only parliamentary group that collected them was the People's Parliamentary Group, approved, of course, unanimously by the Senate, as it could not otherwise be. As far as the amendments of this parliamentary group are concerned, they were incorporated in this House in the report of the presentation that we adopted on 25 October. And as far as the amendments of the People's Group in the Senate are concerned, they have also been incorporated in the report of the presentation of this House, adopted, as I said, unanimously on 12 December. I will dwell on the amendments incorporated in the Senate by the People's Parliamentary Group, aimed at taking into account the specific needs of women and children with disabilities who are victims of gender-based violence. With these amendments, which have been dealt with in one transaction case and in another, have been incorporated into the text, the text now states that the judicial units will be accessible, usable and practicable for all women, including minors; that the themes of both entry and promotion in the judicial career take into account situations of multiple discrimination; and that the statistical bulletins prepared in relation to crimes of violence against women by the Judicial Statistical Commission include the disability indicator. I am grateful to all the parliamentary groups for their special sensitivity in this area, which has allowed the text that now returns to this amended House to take into account the specific needs of women with disabilities. I would not want to end without referring to one of the amendments incorporated in the report of the Senate presentation that we are now discussing. This is the new wording of article 87.quater in its paragraph 2 referring to the report on data relating to gender-based violence and sexual violence, which will be published and forwarded to the State Pact against Gender-based Violence Follow-up Committee of Congress in its original wording, extended this reference to the Senate Special Committee. I did not want to let it pass because, wishing to be wrong, we all know that in practice this amendment will be without any content, it will remain in nothing, since since the creation of the Commission in this House, in Congress, it has met twice: once to form and again for the appearance of the Minister for Equality, the Vice-President of the Government. Let us remember that as the People's Party was in the government, this Commission had already marked dates for the appearance of the Minister of Equality and the Minister of Justice, which did not come about for obvious reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, the haste of the groups that were in the opposition a few months ago has disappeared now that the Socialist Party has taken over the government, with the support of those who are not now in any hurry or interest in having this Commission hold its meetings, and it is not because there is no pending activity in the Commission, it is simply that they are not interested. Look, the People's Parliamentary Group continues where it has always been, alongside the victims and against the aggressors. That is our objective and the basic principle that has guided our activity in this area and that has led the Government of the People's Party to push forward the state pact. And with that same objective and basic principle we will continue to demand that the Monitoring Committee fulfil its role, because the People's Party was interested in it when it was in the government and continues to be interested in it now from the opposition, because this parliamentary group is always committed to the state pact, ladies and gentlemen, and our commitment does not vary depending on how the wind blows. Mrs Cuello, don't worry, we are, of course, always in the pact. We do not know why his interest in following up the pact has disappeared, perhaps because once in the Government he was able to prove that his repetitive speech that nothing had been done for the People's Party was simply a lie. They have been able to see that much progress has been made, that work is under way and that the legislative development of the Pact measures, as you know, and that they know it, because the text drafted by this group, by the People's Parliamentary Group, forms the basis of its draft law on the reform of the Organic Law 1/2004, and that its measures are in practice all those that this group left drafted. You have been able to see that work has been done and now it is up to you and you do not want to explain. They no longer want to bring the reports that the pact establishes to the body to which it entrusted its follow-up; they no longer want the opposition to have the information that we all agree on in the forum that we all leave established. That doesn't matter anymore. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by congratulating all groups on the agreement adopted on the training of judges in gender-based violence both in Congress and in the Senate. It is one more step in the implementation of the state pact and one more step against this scourge, a step of the many that are necessary to end violence against women. We encourage them to move forward. They'll find us there all the time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alba.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u155	We turn to the point of committee opinions on legislative initiatives, in particular the opinion of the draft law regulating real estate credit contracts. In order to defend the amendments maintained and, where appropriate, the particular votes cast on this legislative initiative, the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix a position at this time - intervenes, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u156	Thank you, Madam President. A new missed opportunity to legislate in defense of consumers. Once again, more legislation has been enacted on how to favour banking than citizens, no matter how much those who support this law tell us that it is an improvement. The fact is that the transposition is done down in terms of consumer rights, disregarding the countless European mortgage judgments and without waiting for the European Court of Justice to rule on the legality of the embargoes, it will not be a new strike. This law legalizes abusive clauses such as this which, through courts, have been rendered ineffective in countless judgements, which is why, by the way, the banks had stopped going to court so as not to lose any more trials. The law now opens the door to further evictions by applying the retroactiveity of early maturity, which, although not applicable to thousands of judicial proceedings, will apply to all existing contracts and I would like to recall that there are six million active mortgages containing this clause. Retroactivity only applies when it is beneficial for banking - I have become more and more clear in this Congress - and even if it is contrary to European jurisprudence. As a result, although they will not be able to claim the total amount until 3 % or 12 monthly instalments are due, retroactivity turns this advance into a real trap. With regard to the interest of delay, the Supreme Court has already said that the higher than 2 points above the legal interest are abusive and it is going to be legalized that they can be 3 points above. What the courts had so far left at zero is going to legalize it upwards, over and above what is left in the case law. And they left it at zero because they considered it abusive and therefore annulled it. What can bring us back all this is to the mass evictions, to which we must add in recent times the increase in evictions due to unpaid rent, in many cases, for the abusive price of the same, to which they do not want to get their hands, an area in which they do not want to act, as we have seen, and we will debate in the future in that last royal decree-law of the Government. There'd be a lot more to say but I don't have much more time either. I would like to reiterate that we will vote in favour of many of the amendments that were not accepted in the procedure because we believe that they would come to cut this. As we believe that these amendments, as in the presentation procedure, were not accepted, nor are they going to be accepted today, our final vote will be against because, as I said, consumers are once again left out and bankers benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u157	Thank you very much, honourable Member. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the core of this debate revolves around how to get people to access a good as basic as housing without costing them their lives or their heritage. The text that we will now vote on starts badly when in the first paragraph of its preamble it launches a proclamation as antisocial as - and I read - 'access to property consolidates the freedom and responsibility of individuals as citizens', as if we wanted to return to a census system in which citizenship depends on property, forgetting that rent is an equally valid option for the enjoyment of housing, that the demand for social rents is growing, that the public authorities must attend with the utmost urgency and that people are also calling for a social limitation of rental prices. Despite this proclamation, the law pointed out some things that were not wrong, by extending their protection not only to consumer buyers, but in general to all natural persons, thereby protecting collectives, for example, that of self-employed workers, always so crushed in our country. Nor was the law wrong in trying to control - I said - the irresponsibility of the lender and in introducing transparency so that those who sign loans really know what they are signing. Nor was it wrong to ban ground clauses for the future, although we still have to solve a million and a half people who, thanks to the regulations adopted by the previous Government, have not been concerned to go and look for them to solve the fraud they suffered. This is pending, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the text skates irremistibly when it renounces to go to the core of the question it should regulate. What happens when someone can't pay off their debt, they take away their house and still owe more money, like it's an eternal slab? Here the limitation of the principle of universal property liability, enshrined in article 1911 of the Civil Code, should have been regulated in order to establish the definitive legal extinction of any debt arising from a real estate credit with the delivery of the property subject to the contract and, in line with this, to reform article 140 of the Mortgage Law. On the other hand, the white law gives a good look to the dangerous early maturity of the credit, something that the Court of Justice of the European Union has already told us is an abusive clause and therefore we do not understand why it should be in the norm. The Act does not contain the opinions of the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights to prevent evictions without housing alternatives. The law does not offer a second chance for debtors. Nor does it envisage the creation of a register of mortgages so that the executive privileges provided by the Civil Prosecution Act are strictly reserved for those who claim to be true creditors and not mere holders of securities, such as vulture funds. In short, we find that this text is simply a transposition of Directive 2014/17. It has remained in that, it has not wanted to go further and, therefore, it disappoints the expectations that society had hosted. Therefore, because we do not want to disappoint those who have trusted us to change the state of affairs, Compromís will not support this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group itself, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u160	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this initiative. We have worked on it and improved it and we give up the comfort of making somewhat populist speeches that are not useful for improving the conditions of our legislation. It is very easy to say that this law does not come but, if it comes a little further from where it is, it is thanks to those who vote in favour, not to those who are going to abstain or will vote against. Our group has tabled exactly 23 amendments, of which 18 have been incorporated or negotiated in the original text, and four remain, 230, 232, 233 and 236. I am not going to tire them out by explaining why they are in the competition field, I am only asking you to vote in favour. In turn, we have tabled a particular vote for which I do ask you to give me your attention, although I will not have much time to explain it, to try to leave the original text, i.e. to eliminate what was incorporated into an amendment by the People's Party in the last Commission, almost at the last moment, under the somewhat bucolic, green mortgage name, and when you study it is not a mortgage, it is a credit. From our point of view, it creates more legal uncertainty and can harm consumers. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of this particular vote, in order to bring back this so-called so-called green mortgage. Aspects in which the law has improved. It's a few. I am sure that much remains to be improved, but we have tabled amendments and the law has improved in several respects. Essentially, in the distribution of expenditure, since the majority are assumed by financial institutions, if we vote in favour, not if they vote against or abstain. We have also reduced the fees by cancellation or early amortization; in the case of fixed interest rates, by half, as our group proposed, and that is achieved if we vote in favour, not if they abstain or vote against. We have also increased the percentage of unpaid credit or unpaid contributions so that early maturity can be declared, and we have also incorporated that in our proposals. As time runs out, I cannot explain all of them, although there is one that I did want to name, such as the possibility that mortgage valuations will not be made exclusively by the rating societies but also those independent professionals, with conditions, guarantees, necessary training, which the Government will have to regulate over the next six months. I'm sure there are things to improve, but we'll get the improvements if we vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u162	Bon dia, MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank the good tone and cordiality of all the members of the paper. It has been hard work, since the law is complex and mainly because of the current social context. We particularly thank the Commission's lawyer for her advice and support. Having said that, I must say that the text resulting from the work done does not satisfy us at all. We had the opportunity to make a real law reform and really protect consumers and users. It is true that the ground clause has been removed. We have a judgment from the Court of Justice of the European Union. The burden of mortgage spending has also been reversed; so far it has been taken over by consumers and now it will be taken over by banks. It would take more!, years and years abusing all of us and scamming us. The consumer will be able to choose the notary of his confidence, as well as the assessor who considers it appropriate, i.e. not to be taxed by the bank, as is happening now. I'd miss more! The reforms introduced are of common sense, demands which are imposed on us by the courts of justice of the European Union and which, therefore, we had an obligation to assume. Therefore, let us not wear so many medals because what has been done here has been by legal imposition. But justice has not been done, which is what all citizens need, because the reforms introduced here do not reach the minimum required by consumers and users and by citizens in general. Left Republican proposed many amendments and some have been accepted, but, as I said, they were amendments of common sense. Our group proposed amendments that we believe were going beyond and that we should keep alive, such as the elimination of tied and combined sales; that the banking entity should confine itself to offering and hiring the loan, nothing more; that the interest of delay is not more than 2 points on the remuneration interest, and that they cannot be capitalized in any case, thus complying with several of the Supreme Court's rulings that have addressed this issue, both for mortgage loans and for personal loans. We proposed a new formula for the valuation of the mortgage guarantee, we proposed the irretroactivity of the law, we proposed the elimination of the IRPH index, which is pending resolution before the Court of Justice of the European Union. We also proposed the deletion of the fifth additional provision because we believe that the competences of the autonomous communities assumed in our statutes of autonomy, especially in matters of consumer arbitration, are not respected. By the way - and I have to do the paragraph here - our PL on Tuesday on ground clauses, which was rejected, on consumer protection, if it were read by some parties, which I think it was not, did not even intend to eliminate the ground clause, we were aware that this was already eliminated in the present draft that we are discussing here. We proposed mechanisms to solve the great problem we currently have and that they do not seem to want to see it, such as consumer arbitration, for example. We have thousands of pending lawsuits that are paralysed in the courts, and there are so many more citizens waiting to claim and file their own. It should have been braver and eliminated all the commissions that the borrower has to take on before a mortgage loan or that the early maturity is eliminated, another aspect that is also pending in the Court of Justice of the European Union and is likely to be declared null and void. For this reason, we believe that this reform does not protect consumers and users at all and does not repair them from the damage they have suffered in the face of many years of abuse and deception carried out by the bank, because it does not reflect the main demands of society, which would be fair to do so. That is why our vote will be against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u164	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are dealing with a fundamental law, in which we take one more step. It is very important because 80% of Spaniards have a home on their own and the vast majority buy it through a mortgage, because of the amount that citizens spend on paying that mortgage, 1 out of 4 euros of their income spend it on paying their mortgage, and because of the duration of the operation, which in some cases may be thirty years or even longer. We are faced with a fundamental and necessary law for the abuses, for the bad practice and for the mistakes that have been made by the bank and that have paid thousands and thousands of citizens. That is why it is a necessary and fundamental law. When we address the reform of the law in Citizens, we set out three objectives. Firstly, of course, to protect the consumer, that there is no superiority on the part of the bank, that there are no such cases of abuse and bad practice, that there is equality between the two parties. Secondly, to give security to all legal operators, that we have precise and clear rules and that the mistakes that have occurred do not happen again and that in the end it must be the courts that resolve them. And, of course, the third fundamental objective is the maintenance of the mortgage market, because there have been mistakes, there have been abuses, but in general the mortgage market has worked in Spain and must continue to be maintained. And in conjunction with these principles, with these objectives, the Citizens' amendments have gone. We believe that the text that is now coming out will be adopted is better than the bill that entered this House, and that is why we will vote in favour. But, of course, this text is not enough, this text only addresses part of the problem and so Citizens have already registered in this House a second chance law so that all families who have fallen can be helped and can rise. As for the text of the law, transactional amendments by Citizens have been approved, insofar as the positive files of solvency, early maturity, elimination of the ground clause, the distribution of expenditure; indeed, on this subject Citizens already submitted an amendment before all the mess with the Supreme. We already anticipated that this would happen, and we tabled an amendment to make this cost-sharing. Some amendments by Citizens have been adopted, for example, as to whether the valuation to be set on the deed, for auction purposes, is that of valuation. Also in the Commission we have come to two transactions of amendments by Citizens; one to promote, increase and encourage subrogation, and the other to modify the taxable person of the tax of documented legal acts, so that it is the bank and not the customer who pays the tax of documented legal acts. There, too, a transaction was approved so that FROB and credit unions also have to pay this tax, and have better treatment on the market by being exempt from the payment of this tax. Something that the Government had not resolved in its decree law, we solved through that amendment. However, different citizens' amendments were rejected, which we are keeping alive for this plenary session. We believe that one of them is very significant, and it is the amendment of the late interest rate. Here, surprisingly - or not so surprisingly, seeing what happened in the paper - the People's Party and the Socialist Party have agreed to be tougher than the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court had said that the interest of delay had to be the equivalent of adding 2 points to the remuneration interest. Well, here the People's Party and the Socialist Party decide that no, that they are going to be harder than the Supreme Court and that the citizen has to pay more, and it will be 3 points. We maintain this amendment as that of encouraging collective action, penalizing irresponsible credit and prohibiting it from being multi-divided to consumers. Let us hope that you have re-qualified and approved some of these amendments. We have put forward a particular vote on the bad call by the Green Mortgage People's Party; on the one hand, for a matter of form, because it was presented at the last hour without having followed the procedure, and also for a matter of substance, because in what is called a green mortgage, what is really being done is to promote refractory credit. And if what we're adopting is a law for everything that's happened - because consumers didn't often understand what they were hiring with their mortgage - you'll tell me how we explain to consumers what a refractory credit is, which is what you're actually signing with such a credit. That is why we are presenting our particular vote, to return to the previous wording. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this law because with this law we improve the protection of citizens and consumers from banking, and we hope that the same mistakes will not be made again. Thank you very much, Merry Christmas and happy holidays to all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u166	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the colleagues who cannot be here and those who are about to defend human rights every day, for having been the only ones who have been fighting against the abuses of financial institutions during all this time of crisis. I say this for the comrades of the Mortgage Affected Platform who are accompanying us and for whom they have not been allowed access to this plenary today. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we believe that one of the main problems with this bill is essentially that it has not even waited for the conclusions of a Commission that has been working this whole year, which is the Financial Crisis Commission, or what we would call the big scam, which is part of a wrong issue of origin, and that the abuses of financial institutions were isolated cases. We and we believe that it was the systematic abuse of financial institutions against the people of our country, which has resulted in more than 700,000 mortgage executions, evictions without housing alternatives, perpetual debts that both we and human rights agencies believe are systematic violations of human rights against the working population of our country. We believe that this is unacceptable and that in the face of the pain and suffering of the population, the answer has been the rescue of financial institutions and the impunity of financial institutions that have always counted on their rescue with the money of everyone. If that were not enough, vulture funds are now taking over those homes that were awarded to financial institutions and to the Sareb, funds that are disproportionately increasing the price of our country's homes. If, instead of handing them over to the vulture funds at a balance price, a public social rental housing park had been created, we would obviously be in another situation, but that would mean putting the population in the centre and not defending the interests of the vulture funds, which is what this text and the measures that have been taken in this House with regard to this. [[Applauds]] I want to say in this House that the vulture funds, like the banks, are still in permanent rescue, obtaining 0% credit from the European Central Bank, while the families in our country are still being crushed. This text is not able to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, Minister; we are still doing our homework. Ladies and gentlemen, 698.1 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Aziz case judgment, it is not possible to continue to maintain the refusal of civil harm. If someone has sued the bank, it cannot be executed. It is not worth that I execute you first and we argue later, because it attacks the most basic principles of the right to defence. In this regard, we have raised the need to change and articulate the right to defend people in procedures when dealing with financial institutions. Unfortunately, this text does not have this purpose. The purpose of this text is to protect financial institutions and return to the steps, reinflate the real estate bubble. [[Applauds]] Speaking in my mouth, this may sound a certain way, but don't listen to me. Read what the International Monetary Fund says about the valuation of assets currently being done in our country regarding how that bubble is being pushed. Unfortunately, we have been working for a few months on this bill in paper, that is, in the dark, so that no one hears what each parliamentary group says. We believe that presentations should be made with light and tachographs and that people should know what each group says and with whom they are positioned, whether with the population or with financial institutions at each of the points that affect their lives, that affect their pocket. I think that would be a good step. Unfortunately, this law is not able to respond to the fundamental demands that have been made during all these years. People continue to be condemned to perpetual debts, debts that condemn financial and social exclusion. The possibility of forced evictions without housing alternatives continues to be maintained. There's no answer. People who have a perpetual debt in a situation of exclusion continue to be kept, because they still do not give alternatives. A code of indecent good practice is still being maintained and that the European Court of Justice itself says it does not serve to defend itself before a court because it is a wet paper. The possibility of abusive clauses, such as that of the IRPH, or the bank is saved again with a modification of the early maturity to prevent the effect of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will put the abuses of financial institutions on the table. There is no concern about what happens to people, there is concern about what happens in the balance sheets, what happens on the boards of the financial institutions and what happens with the funds. We and we believe that this is absolutely unacceptable, that it does not serve to make a law to re-protect financial institutions when people continue to be crushed in court proceedings and when there is no possibility of minimally articulating the right to defence. We made an alternative draft law to the De Guindos draft, we tabled a series of amendments that required an alternative text to suggest that financial institutions should finally comply with European legislation, a basic principle, the pro-consumer principle. Unfortunately, there is still a pro-corporatione or pro-bank principle here; this is still an illegal law, outside European law, which is not able to meet the needs of people and which is still a law on the part of financial institutions. It has to be said: in this there have been no problems, in this the PP, PSOE, Citizens, PDeCAT and PNV have given them equal national identity because there is an identity that lies above that, which is identity with financial institutions, the party of banks. [[Applauds]] In front of the bank party, we will continue to stand alongside the popular movement and we can tell you that we will not yield to financial blackmail, we will continue to defend that financial institutions have to comply with the law. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, sooner rather than later, there will be a law that will make financial institutions and vultures feel their hand and that once and for all they must respect the population and that the State should put itself on the part of the population and stop being on the side of the privileged, in breach of the most basic international commitments in the field of human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u168	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. We are debating today the opinion of the law on real estate credit contracts, the last step before it leaves the House of Go to the Senate; the law that will come into force late - two years late - and with a sanctioning process opened by the European Commission, since the transposition of the directive contained in this law should have been done in 2016. After ten years of the onset of the financial crisis, the outbreak of the financial crisis, numerous deficiencies in the mortgage system have been identified that should have been addressed in order to increase the protection of the citizens and consumers of this country and will largely be resolved by this law. It has been six months of work in the paper and the Commission and, before entering into this matter, I wanted to thank all the groups and the lawyer for the sustained tone that has made it possible to reach comprehensive agreements, many even unanimously, and that has also made it possible to improve the law in fundamental aspects. Since the beginning of the processing of this law, my group has always maintained a constructive attitude on the basis of three premises: improving consumer protection, regulating and promoting greater transparency in the process of hiring and marketing mortgage loans and ensuring legal certainty that so far had not existed. We have done so by thinking of the more than 6 million people mortgaged in this country, the tens of thousands of people who sign a mortgage to access a property on their own every month. With this constructive attitude we have succeeded in encouraging or enhancing agreements to improve the initial text, and I believe that we have done so, sincerely. The text that we are voting on today has little to do with the one that entered its day in this House, recorded by the previous government of the People's Party. The text that we will be voting on today also represents a notable improvement from the initially distant positions that the groups had when the presentation began. It is a text to which my group has submitted transactions which, to the greatest extent, have received broad support - as I have said before, many have voted unanimously - but amendments from all groups have also been incorporated: sixteen from Esquerra, fourteen from Citizens, twenty-three from Podemos or eight from the People; that is, it is a text enriched by all the groups in this House. My group, the Socialist Group, as it has already done in the Commission, will vote in favour of the opinion we are debating today, but it is also true that it would not be the text that my group would have drawn up, but it is an improved text on the initial one, which incorporates several of our proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, some can defend the whole thing and stay in nothingness, but I think that little favour does to improve the quality of life of citizens. What my group has wanted from the outset is, while giving in, to seek substantial improvements in the protection of the citizens of this country. In order to achieve these improvements we have had to give up some of our initial positions - here are the amendments - but it is true that the text that comes out, the final text, is better for citizens in terms of protection and transparency. We are also aware that there is still much to be done on housing in this country. The Ministry of Development announced a housing plan last week, here you, Mr Mayoral, have asked the Minister of Economy about judicial improvements that have to be implemented, but you could not pretend to solve everything in this law of real estate credit contracts. I am going to comment on the four or five main measures that I believe this text incorporates, although some have already been commented on: the distribution of expenditure on a proposal from the Government and in line with the decree on the tax on documented legal acts; interest is reduced by delay; early repayment fees are reduced; ground clauses are eliminated; and the number of quotas is extended to twelve and fifteen to start an early maturity process. The code of good practice is also made permanent; it was previously limited only to mortgages confirmed before 2012 and will now be permanent. It may seem like a measure that is not enough, but people from affected groups have moved to me who, in keeping with this code of good practice, have considerably improved the fee they have to pay at the end of each month and that allows them to continue with their own home and to continue living at home. I believe that this code of good practice must be publicised so that all the citizens of this country know that they can come to it in times of difficulty that we can all live. It is also ensured that all receivables overtaken so far will not be subject to the application of this law. All claims that are overtaken, whether in court or not, will not be subject to this law, thus avoiding the possible cascades of mass executions that have been discussed here. We believe that the work of these months has been positive and there is a clear difference with the previous government period. The Government has now encouraged the processing of this law, favoured areas of agreement and has been reflected in the final document. We are satisfied with the result achieved, although not all our expectations have been met. Objectively, with the text in hand, no one can deny that the law we will pass today improves the situation of current and future consumers. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that we will vote against all the amendments that remain alive and we will vote in favour of both individual votes. I would like to reiterate my thanks to all the groups we have worked together to improve a text that was much better initially. I would also like to thank the speed with which we have been able to reach this last plenary of the year with a law that was important and that had an open sanctioning process, but above all with a law that will reverse many of the abuses that have been carried out by the bank in recent years and will guarantee protection to consumers who have not so far had. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Palacín. Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u170	With venom, the president. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is proof that consensus can be reached in this House on the basis of divergent positions. What does not fit in our view in democracy are humiliating divestitures and humiliating divestitures is that by which the Government of Spain allows the president of an autonomous community to appear as the head of state of a republic in exchange for his approval of the spending ceiling of the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] It is a humiliating assignment that has no justification whatsoever, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, this law is proof that consensus can be reached. We have taken steps from the beginning, from the draft law that was passed in a Council of Ministers chaired by President Rajoy, who arrived in this House and that the first time we could meet in a paper the motion of censure was put in motion, which delayed a few months to complete its work. Fortunately, and yielding all, without this being the law of any but the law of all, we have been able to arrive at a text that is favorable for citizens, for people, for all of them. The crisis had its origin, policies had been implemented that had deepened the crisis and some had to deal with the solution to the most urgent problems, such as the code of good practice or another set of measures that provided housing solutions for those who were evicted under certain circumstances. Fortunately, this law follows the legal tradition of recent years and also the Spanish legal tradition, which has always tended to protect the consumer from powerful third parties. Since the first law, the Law of 1861, which is a debtor of liberal ideas, of the 19th century liberals, have taken steps to protect the consumer. Since the creation of the Property Registry until now, decisions have been made to be able to make the consumer, who feels weak towards the one who leaves the money, feel more calm and I believe that this law is part of that Spanish legal tradition so that the consumer can feel more at ease in that asymmetric relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a general consensus that the taxable person of the tax is transferred or, in other words, that the taxable person of the so-called mortgage tax, or tax of documented legal acts, is not paid by consumers. There is a consensus in the House and we all say the same thing, that the consumer does not pay the tax. But the way in which the government and its colleagues are voting in favour of the government's position to prevent the consumer from paying the tax is simply a mistake because, as we are checking, banks are transferring the costs of taxing documented legal acts to consumers, and today, for example, we have been able to read in the press how the mortgage rate reaches its peak in the past thirty-one months. Ladies and gentlemen, when a cost is passed on to entrepreneurs, they try to pass it on to consumers and, if we continue with the same regulation, the good intention that some may have that the tax is not paid by consumers is going to be defrauded because the banks are simply going to transfer it. The only way to avoid it is, as we propose, by doing the type of this zero tax, so that consumers do not have to pay it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled and kept alive this amendment in order to make you sensitive because, if not, those who vote in favour of maintaining the tax, of transferring the taxable person exclusively, will be causing something that should not be admitted in politics and that is that one thing is said with the intention of cheating, of taking the blame, in this case to the citizens who are going to have to face the payment of the tax indirectly. [[Applauds]] We are aware of the problem that you pose, and I conclude, Madam President, with the will of the House, but we are also aware of the problems that the green mortgage can pose, and we have therefore drafted an amendment that will be tabled in the Senate and that will resolve the problems that have emerged from the Citizens' Group. That way we can resolve any doubts that exist about it and that may be approved. Whatever decision they make regarding the particular vote that has been put forward by the two parliamentary groups that have done so in relation to the green mortgage, we also believe that we can resolve it and for that purpose we will work in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of consensus has been reached and our vote will be in favour of the Commission's opinion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group's position. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u172	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. For us, the financial crisis has, of course, shown bad regulation, excessive credit growth and bad practice on the part of the institutions in granting credit, but not of all, because there are also those who have not done so completely wrong. There have also been people who have been more or less cautious in seeking credit. What I mean is that the attribution of faults depends not only on the limited mortgage regulation or the bad practice of banks, but also on other factors. So we have tried with this law to strike a balance in the whole regulation, bearing in mind that greater protection must be given to people who are in debt in order to buy a house or a real estate. A bank must also be cautious, rigorous and prudent in granting credit, in such a way that risk analysis, it is true, must preside over this concession, but we must also remember that its business is to lend money and that the response to certain specific measures that are demanded about housing is also in the hands of the autonomous communities, which have competence in this matter. I believe that, as has already been said here, populism on this subject should not be made when an important consensus has been reached thinking above all about people, even if others say otherwise, because it has been tried to be constructive and to reach agreements, since when positions are held maximalist and there is no way out of that position, no agreement can be reached, and this would not improve the law. On the other hand, we are living in a society that has normally accepted mortgages to buy a home and financial institutions have used this figure to capture families and customers and also sell them another series of linked or combined products that have now also been regulated. It must therefore also be said that it is a law resulting from the numerous judgments of the European courts and from the directive which echoed the consequences of the crisis, but we also have to understand that this law must be balanced for all the parties involved. In this sense, we believe that the work that this paper has done must be emphasized, that what it has sought is to respond to a complex situation and whose objective has been to give legal certainty with certain rules, of course, in our view, better than those that have been so far. My group had fifteen amendments alive, fourteen are already incorporated by transactions or in their literality, and one has been withdrawn, so I thank all the groups for their work in this regard. It is a law that includes many improvements, from the disappearance of the clauses to the clarification and redistribution of expenses, early maturity and the possibility of choosing notary. For us too, a number of competition issues have been important because the points of connection for the attribution of competences of the autonomous communities in certain aspects regulated by this law are mainly addressed. It is true that there are a number of other amendments which we have also supported because, despite the fact that we have included them, we did believe that we should continue to strengthen in this respect, and that is why today, too, and with regard to certain living amendments, we will give our support. I would also like to announce that at the last moment an amendment called a green mortgage was included, in which this group abstained because it was not able to analyse it in depth, but that once analysed, and understanding that it can now cause legal uncertainty, we will support the particular votes whose aim is to suppress it and that in this respect both the PDECAT and the Citizens' Group have done so. In short, we understand that this law will achieve stable and precise mortgage regulation that we understand is essential because the housing market generates very important impacts on the economy as a whole. The current parliamentary arithmetic has given us the opportunity to reach agreements between different groups and I believe that we have achieved a law that is more effective, efficient and balanced for all operators in terms of rights, obligations and consequences, as we have already said. I would therefore like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the work they have done, as well as the lawyer, in this whole matter. Today we have been accused of being here next to the bank. In that sense, Mr Mayor, I have to tell you that this group certainly doesn't care if there is light and tachographs in a paper because we are always clear, we do no demagoguery or deceive people. We have tried to strike a balance and what cannot be done is to promise things that cannot be done afterwards. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. The Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u174	I'd like to take this opportunity to say two things. First of all, thank you very much to all those who have contributed to this process. I believe that the work of the paper has been serious, that a broad consensus has been reached and that the text has improved thanks to the parliamentary procedure. Therefore, my first message is to thank all those people who have worked hard. My second message is Merry Christmas and the best for next year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. There is no doubt that this House also congratulates you and your family on Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u176	We move on to the debate on the opinion on the proposal for a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his or her life. In order to defend the amendments maintained and, where appropriate, the particular vote on this legislative initiative, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u177	Thank you, Madam President. There are many, ladies and gentlemen, who believe that eliminating a human life can never be considered a human right and that, in the same way, accompanying and caring for a sick person cannot also include eliminating it. This principle is defended when we speak of unborn children and also when we refer to our elders, to people at the end of their lives, in what Pope Francis has defined as the culture of discard; a culture linked to a certain conception of life and absolute freedom, understood as a rights without limits. Everything goes well, the right to choose what the wish wants, regardless of the self or other damage it carries. Today we will adopt a rule that makes little difference. It does mean, yes, a flying goal on the path of recognition of the right to kill, a low-intensity, covert euthanasia. In Navarre since 2011 there is already a law for palliative care, which is also unanimously adopted, which is a literal copy of which we are now discussing, but which has been suppressed by nuclear concepts that break a delicate political balance that is now being rejected by those who voted for it. I must say that it is other groups which today, by voting against our amendments, will vote against what they voted for in Navarra. It is they who have broken that agreement, that unanimity without any explanation, without a justification, but we already know that with euthanasia as a stated objective. This legislation will generate more harm and misunderstandings than clarity and equality. Who will ensure its real application without sanctioning regime? And their development, and their monitoring, and their evaluation? Ladies and gentlemen, if our amendments are not accepted and, therefore, the unanimous agreement with which the foreign law was adopted in Navarre is not respected, we will vote against them. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. From the discrepancy and respect, I wish you all Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u178	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u179	Thank you, Madam President. There is no doubt that passing a law like this, a law that recognizes rights in such a fragmented Parliament, is very difficult, but even today we are debating this opinion which we believe is short because it is limited only to palliative care, but even so we understand that it is good news to be talking about palliative care here today. Because we don't talk about eliminating lives, as they said; we talk about eliminating suffering at the end of our lives. During two years of People's Party government with citizens, legislative activity in this House has been foolishly paralysed, either by the parliamentary filibusterism of the two right-wing groups or by the veto of the ruling party. After a motion of censure, fortunately, we began to debate many laws, laws that recognize citizens' rights, and today we are just debating and adopting quite a few opinions on this. This is one of them; a law that recognizes, after much work and much negotiation, the right and guarantees of people to the final process of life in order to avoid in the end suffering. But, as is often the case, political consensus means that not everyone is in agreement or satisfied and satisfied with the work. With this law the sick people will be a little more free to decide their palliative care and we will take a step further towards something that is very important, decriminalizing euthanasia. We also dignify that end-of-life process a little bit. Under this law, people may decide on unwanted treatments, die with minimal suffering or decide to die in family privacy. We also hope that in the Senate, with 30% of the vote, which translates into an absolute majority of the People's Party, we do not want to distort the little achieved in this opinion. Because, honestly, all people will one day see each other at that point and then they will not be worth flags or hymns; it will be worth investing public services and in the training of health professionals. It will be worth having humanized palliative care and a little more personal healing. That will be the only thing that counts on the day that some of us need palliative care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u181	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to take advantage of this intervention, which is the first one after four of our colleagues in prison have devoked this hunger strike, to denounce an injustice they are suffering, and that we are suffering thousands and thousands of people in Catalonia. That's why my first words wanted them to be for them. We are, ladies and gentlemen - and we have discussed this already in this House - those who defend euthanasia as a last act of dignity, who must demand high-quality palliative care. I believe that the government works of my party and my political space - so to speak - support this idea of making two worlds compatible. Those who are in favour of euthanasia of neglect and of not enhancing quality palliative care are often accused, and I believe that is not the case. Our contribution to this law is trying to be something like that. And so are - as I said - the works of government in Catalonia and the development of processes and institutions such as the Pades, which is what they do, in short, is to ensure that those who reach the end of their lives with pain can have the care they deserve. Even so, and precisely because of this demand and this will to make this law a useful law for the citizens who suffer and who reach that point in their lives with pain and suffering, we believe that this law does not address and does not address the issues that should be addressed. First of all, because we think that there is still a law that is ultimately a refrain from other laws, which is a repetitive law of the General Health Act 41/2002, on patient autonomy, and we also believe that there is a considerable competitive invasion at important points. We have tried to make our contribution with amendments so that this can be reversed and we hope to see how the debate evolves and what the positions of the groups are. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you all a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Today I do not think it is appropriate to make a speech about the dignity of people at the end of their lives because obviously the law that we are going to pass or not to pass today, the law that we have, I think it is a law that develops a number of issues that are already recognized in other laws, those rights and those duties. I therefore depart from that criterion. We could certainly make long speeches about the certainty of death, about the awareness of the disease that approaches death, about the need for care and preparation for death, issues that of course we consider fundamental, of course we defend, of course we believe that they are necessary and, as they are necessary, are already being applied fortunately in almost all places. The question is, would there not be such rights if this law did not exist? Wouldn't there be those duties? Wouldn't you be doing the palliative care we're talking about? Let's not get confused. Furthermore, let us not confuse it either because this law is neither a substitute for euthanasia at all nor responds to the same needs of people who are in need at the moment of what is called euthanasia. This is something else. That will come in due course, and some of us are even willing to regulate it as needed. Adhering to the proposition of law, what did we say in the consideration? We said that we did not agree, and that is why we voted not to take it into consideration, for three fundamental reasons: because we considered the project that came was legally unnecessary, excessive in its regulation and posed an incredible invasion in the competition field. So much so that if this law were passed it would deserve even a remedy of unconstitutionality before it could be applied. Despite what was expressly stated in the preamble to this proposal for an original law, it was clear from the simple reading of the text that its claim went beyond the establishment of a general basis for its subsequent normative development by the autonomous communities, since it deploys a comprehensive regulation that exhausts any margin of concreteness. A simple look at the regulation currently in force leads to the conclusion that the bases on this issue are already regulated in state laws such as Law 14/1986, General of Health, or 41/2002, Basic and Regulator of Patient Autonomy. These rules, as the basic state legislation, have served the peaceful development of the autonomous communities in various regulations on the subject. On the other hand, the level of regulatory detail of this proposed law, which therefore exceeds the concept of bases that arises and, consequently, the scope of State jurisdiction for its adoption, is reflected in several sections of its text. - I'm not just going to focus on the issue of the individual room and the compulsory one. We have been consistent with our position. To that end, we have tabled amendments, since they were taken into consideration, which highlighted what we considered unnecessary and what we considered necessary. The failure to accept them at all and the position that has been maintained in the Commission and the Commission has made it possible for us to keep alive a number of amendments which put forward what we consider appropriate in the process of this law. We believe that it is autonomy for the autonomous communities to develop this type of issue. Therefore, the regulation of everything is unnecessary and we therefore put forward amendments 9 and 10 alive, because those who have developed laws now force certain regulatory issues to be enforced by law, for example - as I said - the individual room, which is an anecdote but, do we have to develop this since Congress? In any case, we also propose the elimination of Title II because, consequently, the articles relating to the duties of health professionals who care for people in the final process of life would be deleted, because this aspect is regulated in existing regular rules. The elimination of Title IV, yes; we propose the elimination of Title IV without reference to anything, because what refers to infringements and sanctions is not the subject of this law, which is already regulated in other rules. We also call for the deletion that enables the Government to issue as many regulations as necessary for the development and implementation of the provisions of this law, because we believe that the elaboration of these provisions is the responsibility of the autonomous communities, as expressly provided for in the first additional provision of the law itself. In conclusion, we continue to think the same as at first. We recognise that although it has been possible to work in the Commission, it clearly distorts autonomous competition. 149.1 cannot be used for anything we want; it is not a law of rights and what some autonomous communities must develop is their competence, even if they do not develop it. The regulation of these so-called general bases is already contained, as I said, in other laws, and therefore this proposed law cannot be. We believe that it has been raised so that some parliamentary groups may appear, surely, as the adalid of this issue, but we believe that some others have also made a leave - if they defend that the autonomous communities are competent in this matter - because they should have been much more consistent with that criterion and defend the autonomy they have. For this reason, and because we believe that this law has a clear centralizing pretension, we are not going to vote in favour of this law. Thank you all very much. And, also on behalf of my group, happy Christmas and happy New Year.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u185	The truth is that after hearing all the speakers we do not know very well what we are talking about, because between the delirium of euthanasia and the delirium of autonomous law it is difficult to explain whether we are talking about the same things. Mr Agirretxea wondered what would happen if this law did not exist. There is an answer that we have already given, that has already given the Spanish Society of Palliative Care. What's going on without this law? There are more than 50 000 people a year who die without palliative care; there are many people, as the Andalusian Ombudsman's report says, who die without even knowing that they are dying, and nothing happens to anyone because they do not inform the doctors. What's going on? That in this country you die badly. This seems to be that outside this House everyone knows it, but inside this House no one knows it. [[Applauds]] This law has been repeatedly referred to as a palliative care and palliative care law. Suffering is alleviated, anguish is alleviated, symptoms are alleviated, but rights are not. Rights are recognized, regulated, exercised and defended. That is what this House is for, and that is what this law is for. [[Applauds]] Because we talk about the rights of the Spaniards, that's why it's called the law. Because what do we tell them in this law? We tell them that no one can be deceived by their doctor with false promises, because no one has the right to steal the only thing we have left at the end of our lives, which is time. No one can take time away from their patients with false promises, with false expectations, because people have the right to dispose of their last days at their will, at their convenience, to say goodbye to their loved ones. [[Applauds]] That is why we tell them that it is mandatory in this law to say that they have the right to be informed in advance at the time of diagnosis of their prognosis, so that they can make a vital will, so that that vital will is collected, and so that that vital will is visible in clinical histories, because it is a right, not only palliative care. But we also tell them that suffering does not make us any better, that it is not imposed on us as something inevitable. We tell them that the National Health System is obliged to provide us with quality palliative care, to reflect it, to study it and to verify that the law applies. And we tell them something else, we tell them that when medicine can't control our symptoms we can ask our doctors to induce us to sleep that will end our suffering. That is also a right that is reflected in this law and that we believe should be a right, like all equal rights for all Spaniards. If that's centralizing, we're centralizing. We believe in equality, call us what they call it. [[Applauds]] We tell them that there is nothing worthy of keeping a dead body alive, that no one is legitimized to force us into forced feeding, dialysis or breathing, and that people who suspend such treatments and maintenance of artificial vital constants will not have to resort, as has been the case so far, to a court to remove a nasogastric tube or to remove a forced feeding. That is a right that collects this law and we want it to be the same for all Spaniards. We also tell them that our professionals will always ensure that our will is respected and that they will accompany us without taking into account any considerations other than our interests, even if they do not like our decisions. We also tell them that they have the right to say goodbye in private, surrounded by their own. Can anyone say good-bye in private in a room of three? Isn't that right? Wouldn't either of you want it? For we will not want it for the Basques, or for the Navarros, or for the Catalans, or for the Aragonese. [[Applauds]] We also tell our professionals, that none will be persecuted for enforcing these rights, that none will be persecuted for fulfilling the rights of the Spaniards, that we trust in their good doing and their good knowledge to carry out these objectives and that Claude Bernard's adage, the classic adage of: sometimes healing, often relieving and comforting always, remains in force and remains current. Because medicine does not fail with death, medicine fails with loneliness; when we are unable to accompany our patients or sit at the feet of their bed and listen to their last desires. That's when medicine fails. Gentlemen, in this process of law there is one but for which we maintain a particular vote because, in fact, we believe that a basic law regulating the rights of all Spaniards cannot be supported by a different autonomous sanctioning regime for each one. Yes, we are centralists because we believe in protecting the weakest - that's what the law is for; the law is the protection of the weakest -; probably many of you don't need it, but the weakest do need the backing of a sanctioning regime that makes this law effective. That is why we maintain our particular vote. I would like to end by thanking all the members of the paper for their excellent work; the lawyer, whose elegance and discretion have always been the balm to make the agreement fruitful. Finally, I would like to thank the Wallisoletans who gave me their confidence and my party for the opportunity to defend this which is the first health law proposed by Citizens. This is the opportunity to make me fulfill a dream that my father instilled in me: the dream of trying to be useful to the sick and to those who suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, this can also be politics. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor in the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u187	Good afternoon, President. Deputies, March 2017; I ask you to remember a proposal on euthanasia presented by United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and excellently well defended by Marta Sibina. The result was that the Socialist Party was not about the work and we missed an opportunity. Shortly afterwards, Citizens proposed this law to us. I remember being accused of cutting and hitting; the current result is much better, no doubt, but for many it was trying to legislate on something we already had and not taking a step forward on what was urgent, euthanasia. Today we keep thinking the same thing. At the Catalan level, but not only at that level, there is already the law on information rights appropriate to the health and autonomy of the patient. Not only this, the Statute of Autonomy has an entire article, article 20, which states: As part of the right to live with dignity, all people have the right to receive adequate treatment of pain and comprehensive palliative cures and to live with dignity the process of their death. It also provides that all persons have the right to express their will in advance to record the instruments on medical interventions and treatments they may receive, which must be respected in the terms laid down by law, especially for health personnel, when they are not in a position to express their will personally. A 1991 motion was also in this direction. The great step forward that we were asked to take, which the professionals and citizens were asking for, was to go further. This was done by this Congress in May. In May we adopted a proposal from the Catalan Parliament that wanted to be a political response, leave fears and see opportunities, appealing to values that put people, their rights and their freedoms at the centre. I will read the wording, the agreement: It is exempt from criminal responsibility that, at the express, free and unequivocal request of a person suffering from a serious illness that necessarily leads to death or an incurable pathology that causes him or her serious physical or psychological suffering and that is expected to be permanent, causes with necessary acts the safe, peaceful and painless death of that person or cooperates in it, within the established legal framework. It was approved by this Congress. This June we admitted to a law of euthanasia - now, yes - that collected these principles, expanded them and gave them better legal coverage. In October we rejected an amendment to the whole People's Party. We hope that the presentation will be convened in the new period that opens in 2019. In this sense, this proposal that is presented to us today is unnecessary, redundant and dangerous: that those communities that have been doing things well for a long time should encounter an excessively regulatory regulation that complicates it. That is why we cannot vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u188	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a law of great interest. If there is one thing clear in this Chamber is that all the people we are here will meet with death at some point, and we want to die well. What do we have in our country regarding the rights to palliative care? I say rights to palliative care, because in article 43 of the Constitution it is the right to health; so right, if Mr Igea so wishes, to palliative care. They are no longer covered by the General Health Act and the Patient's Autonomy Act, as discussed here, but are magnificently reflected in Royal Decree 1030 of 2006, paragraph 7, on palliative care for terminally ill persons in the service portfolio. Another aspect is that this service that has to be given to the population is not being given. Do we have anything else? Yeah. As mentioned here, we have ten of the autonomous communities already have legislation in palliative care; they started in 2010 with their legislation. It is true that the communities that have the most funding have the most implementation. It is not that others are poorly organized, it is that they have them more implanted by financing. Apart from autonomous legislation, as has also been said here, we have made little progress. An example is the document of anticipated wills, which is minimal to the population that has made it. Why? Because it hasn't been properly promoted. Four months ago, in September, the Council of Europe made an assessment of palliative care in all countries; outside the communities, I repeat, in the countries. He has valued nine parameters and, of them, Spain only managed to overcome two, with which we deduce that in Spain he dies badly. Fortunately, we hear less and less in hospitals the phrase: everything that has been done to save the patient has been done. This phrase reassured the family, but in many circumstances it implied a diagnostic and therapeutic obstinacy. Right now in our healthcare system we can meet patients who are on a stretcher, in a hallway, in an emergency service, with dyspnea, with pain, with strange people around and with fear of the uncertainty that the situation produces. In addition, this will increase in a month and a half or two months when hospital emergency services are collapsed. We can find the circumstance that there is another patient in a cold hospital bed, in an individual room, without symptoms, and we can also find a person in his bed, in his home, with his loved ones around, without symptoms. That must be our goal. We do not agree with Mr Igea with his punitive obsession. We are not continuously under control or under sanctions. We are for the training of professionals. Palliative care words need not disappear over time. Just as diagnosis or treatment are included in clinical practice, we want the palliation to be included. That's the way we have to go. Let us hope that this law will serve to die better, even if we doubt it, because there is no funding. If public health is not accompanied by more economic means, this will have no use. Here reference has often been made to the law of euthanasia. Let us hope that the presentation phase will begin, at the latest, in February. Happy holidays. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u190	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u191	Today we are going to see a long-held goal pursued by the Socialist Party, which is to provide Spain with a law of rights and guarantees in the final process of life; a law that allows people to die with dignity, without suffering and respecting their decisions so as not to unnecessarily prolong suffering when death is near; a law that allows them to die in conditions, guaranteeing them privacy, privacy, in the company of their loved ones; a law that regulates the obligation of professionals and institutions to provide comprehensive palliative care in order to respect people's decisions and to adapt medical actions to the clinical conditions of the patient and their own wishes, avoiding therapeutic obstinacy; a law that gives legal certainty to professionals when they adapt their practices to what are good professional practices. It is a law that sees light after seven years and four attempts by the Socialist Group. We are therefore pleased that today we are going to adopt it with the consensus, I hope, of this House. The road hasn't been easy. The People's Party has, almost always, impeded progress in people's rights in the final process of life. We all remember those unfair attacks on the professionals at the Leganés Hospital for practicing palliative sedation. A few months ago, a law of the same character was voted against in the Parliament of the Valencian Community. That is why the Socialist Party has had to lead the initiative, even when it was in opposition, and today there are autonomous laws of dignified death, as in the case of the Community of Madrid or the Community of Galicia. Ten autonomous communities already have laws regulating dignified death, and six of them are of socialist initiative. This law that we are going to vote on today captures the acquis of those draft state laws that the Socialist Party brought in its day. We agree, Mr. Igea, to copy from others, but when you copy you have to prove the authorship of whom you copy, because, if not, that has a name that you know very well. In these fourteen months of presentation the law has been enriched. We are also pleased that twenty of the thirty-eight amendments proposed by the Socialist Party have been incorporated to establish, inter alia, the prevalence of autonomous decisions of people over other criteria, the incorporation of the role of nursing professionals in palliative care or social volunteering or the needs of persons with disabilities. Moreover, we have simplified the law, Mr Agirretxea, by eliminating everything we considered to be invasions of competences, and there is nothing more to see in the opinion than the number of articles that have been deleted. Because it is true, we talk about health and social care, in which it is the autonomous communities that have competences established and granted by the Spanish Constitution. That is why we consider it unnecessary to establish a regime of violations and state sanctions when it is already the case of the ten autonomous communities that have regulated this matter, and for those who do not do so we make a reference in this opinion to the regime that penalizes the General Health Law. The problem with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is that they are not in favour of or against a sanctioning regime, they challenge Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution because they do not believe in the autonomous state. They treat autonomous communities as if they were ineffective or insensitive administrations to regulate, monitor, protect people's rights, and nothing further from reality. Constitutionalist parties, lords of Citizens, believe and defend the Constitution in its entirety. Just as you invoke article 155 one day and another day, you must also read and defend article 149.3, which says that state law in those powers that are not exclusive to the State will be subsidiary to the legislation that the autonomous communities themselves establish. That must be believed, as must be believed in article 113, which establishes the legitimacy of replacing a Government by means of a motion of censure. Chapter 2 of Title III also talks about the drafting of laws. That is why I ask you to stop blocking the processing of the proposed law of euthanasia, because it is a law so necessary or more than this law of rights and guarantees in the final process of life, because it has been taken into consideration by this House also with your affirmative vote. [[applause]] Therefore, if you continue to block the processing of the law of euthanasia you will be blackmailing not the Socialist Party, but the Congress of Deputies and the Spanish citizenship, which also expects a regulation of euthanasia that complements this law of rights and guarantees in the final process of life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u192	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise today to this rostrum the truth that with double satisfaction. The first for the contribution of the People's Parliamentary Group, and because after my words is the position of a parliamentary group, of a party with very clear ideas, with solid arguments whose goal is always to defend the general interest and to fight and work for the well-being of citizens. With which, that is my satisfaction. But today I have another one, and that is that just as our proposals are often not taken into account, today I am pleased to say that this law has contributions from all groups, but also from our group, the People's Group, with which for me it is double satisfaction. This law which began its course - some spokesmen have said - almost a year or more ago since the beginning of its process, to which the People's Party put no veto or any obstacle to that process. We have had a presentation that has met many times. We've shared many hours of work. We have all been very generous, we have all yielded, we have all contributed and we have been generous. With this, I want to devote a minimum part of my time to thanks. The first thanks go to those associations, foundations or organizations that have made their proposals to us making them their own and that this law is also a little theirs. Secondly, I thank the members of the paper, all of them, of all the groups, ladies and gentlemen. Believe me that in these long hours of discussion and debate to check your professional and political size has been nothing compared to checking the human quality of all of you. With which, if I am allowed and forgiven the license, I thank you, I thank you for everything I have learned from you. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, that the three members of this paper allowed us to work on this law and without whose confidence, thrust and support we could not have come this far. Finally, not because it is less important, but precisely so that I resonate for a longer time the echo of my words in his ears, my fellow speakers, Carmen Navarro Lacoba and Isabel Cabezas. How many hours and how many conversations we have had, some harder and harder than others, but what a great honor it has been to work with you! So thank you so much too. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, here in the General Courts, we pass many laws and they are all important, but they will allow me today to qualify this law as special, as important as any other law if you want, but special, and for two reasons. First of all, because it is going to affect us all citizens, it equals our ideology, where we feel, the collective to which we belong, the family and the place where we live, all our lives are going to have a final moment, with which it affects us all. And secondly, for the content. We are regulating everything that surrounds that difficult moment, which is the final moment of our life; at which time, those who have passed through this trance at some point know what is happening, and it is that feelings are above legal issues. Therefore, this law regulates everything that is going to surround that moment, so that at that moment the affected person only has to worry about the well-being of the patient so that they do not have suffering or pain; the professionals, to fulfill their obligation to remove that suffering and pain from that patient; the relatives, friends and the environment to accompany him, and, as I say, the administrations to facilitate that trance. It is true, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said, that there are autonomous communities that have regulated this matter, but from now on those other communities that do not regulate it will also have this law. Thus, all citizens, where they live, will have these rights and guarantees of their dignity guaranteed at the end of their lives; they will have the right to quality palliative care. And those rights are incomplete because, in our opinion, there is one missing and, therefore, we will support the UPN amendment which contains what I am going to report below. We believe that citizens at that end of their lives also have the right to spiritual and religious assistance, and we firmly believe that. With that right we do not force anyone to seek such assistance, but we do not want to deprive anyone who needs it of having it. In this country there are many citizens who are believers and we believe that recognition of that right should be incorporated into the law. That is why, Mr Salvador, we will support your amendment. We also believe that the law would be incomplete without a sanctioning regime. You said that, Mr Fernández, we have autonomous laws, the autonomous communities that do not have them need these rights, but they also need that sanctioning regime. With this, we believe that it should be incorporated because that gives security to everyone at that difficult time, to patients, to family members, to representatives, to professionals, to health administrations and also to the courts, in the event of a conflict. I do not want to end without my words being also for the lawyer of the paper, Don Luis de la Peña, for his patience, his work, his timely observations and his precise nuances, who have collaborated to make the law better law. And I end up with the same positive tone that I started with, congratulating everyone on the job well done and congratulating everyone on Christmas. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u194	Thank you very much. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO TRANSPOSE DIRECTIVES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION TO FINANCIAL AND TERRORISM AREAS, AND TO ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRY MATTERS. [[File number 122/000200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u195	We move on to the debate on the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to transpose European Union directives in the areas of finance and terrorism, and to address international issues. To defend the amendments maintained by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u196	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Regrettably, terrorism has been a determining factor in many legislative and political actions in recent years. We all share the need for effective regulation. However, there is an excessive commitment to punitive criminal policies, forgetting other measures, in our view, far more effective. It has also happened in this transposition of the directive. For our group it is essential to address as priority actions the exhaustion of financial resources, to intervene the instruments that consolidate their support and to deepen political problems. It is essential to abound in preventive action and not so much in punitive measures. However, with the transposition of this directive we can again see the punitive drift as the only point of action in the fight against terrorism. The Spanish legislator, relying on the supposed Community demands, goes into excessive and disproportionate measures, forgetting the international flows, which are the fundamental weapon for international terrorism. The text of the justification for our amendments is quite clear. As an example, these are some of the issues that concern us. First, the maximum penalty for the crime of price disruption on the market, the dissemination of news or rumours and the use of privileged information with operations that give rise to deception is tripled from two to six years. Our proposal was to be in line with the recommendation of the Community directive. Secondly, a new type of criminal offence, the new article 285 bis, of offences against the market, is introduced, which departs from the cases provided for in this article, which already makes clear its degree of indetermination, with a maximum penalty of four years. It is not well known what these cases are, but the legal good to protect is the integrity of the market and investor confidence. It is a new crime of risk, unlike previous crimes of result, which covers cases that were so far alleged to be purely administrative offences. Third, article 368 of the Criminal Code, which criminalizes counterfeiting of currency and is also subject to modification, is a clear example of criminal excess, with penalties between eight and twelve years, similar to those of crimes against life and sexual assault. In this case, we proposed, in addition to a reduction in the penalties in these cases, the possibility of imposing lower penalties in one or two degrees in view of the circumstances of the facts, of the perpetrator or of the situation of objective and real risk generated. We believe that it is essential to give the judge the power to adapt the sentence to the specific case. Fourthly, separate mention is made of terrorist crimes. There are a number of authors who are warning that legislation such as this consolidates a criminal law based on suspicion, that it aims to prosecute radicalization with deorbited penalties, overlapping criminal types and overlaps with each other without any kind of legislative harmonisation and, however much they try to justify it, without foundation in those directives which they intend to serve as a basis. With this wording we take another step in the punitive enlargement that we are experiencing in recent years. An example of this is the creation of new criminal types that need several paragraphs to explain themselves and justify their presence in the Criminal Code. Some are criminal types generated by suspicions or diffuse risks that do not even allow a reduction of their excessive penalties in order to adapt to the circumstances of the event and the risk generated. The links between terrorism and its new forms of financing, closely linked to money-laundering operations, the use of tax havens and the use of cryptocurrencies through the deep web as an operational platform, are virtually forgotten. This line is indispensable against the financing of terrorism, tax fraud and money laundering, but also against its very existence and operational capacity. These problems not only affect the financial sector but also indirectly affect the majority of the population. Capital flight, which serves as the basis for international terrorism, and its circumvention is estimated at some EUR 11 billion per year. This framework needs to be updated with some urgency. We are simply talking about one of the bloodiest and most dangerous faces of international organized crime. It is, of course, worth a much deeper analysis than the mere drafting of some articles of the Criminal Code. In order to prevent markets and terrorism from destabilizing our community, we need to be cautious and extreme care to solve the indeterminate criminal types, some generated by suspicions that might result in a criminal policy that violates basic rights and guarantees, and not effective against the real problems of the global counter-terrorism struggle. In short, it leads to punitiveism and poor legal technique, taking advantage of the transposition of a European directive, which is neither effective nor guaranteed nor adequate in terms of criminal policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u198	Thank you very much, President. I am speaking from the seat because I will do so very briefly, simply to point out that we will maintain the same position in this House as we did in the Commission when we adopted the opinion we are now debating. We will therefore vote in favour of all the proposed organic law reforming the Criminal Code, without prejudice also to supporting the amendments of the Confederal Group of the United States, as we did in the Commission. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u199	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Leal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u200	Thank you very much, President. In this case we find ourselves, as in many other initiatives, that we are on horseback between two types of government, initiatives that emerged with the Rajoy era and are debated or dealt with with with the Sánchez era. This is one of them. This is a proposal for a law by which the People's Party intends to amend the Criminal Code with a triple objective: firstly, to transpose directives, two from 2017 and one from 2014, on market abuse, terrorism and fraud on financial interests; secondly, to improve the transposition of another directive of 2014, on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and, thirdly, the adaptation to what was approved by the Council of Europe in Santiago de Compostela in 2015. The analysis of the proposed law itself goes on the one hand and, on the other hand, the analysis of the amendments that we reject. With regard to the proposed law, there were five or six issues to consider. First, the proposed law technique was used; at the time it was formulated, the proposing group was the one that supported the Government, which was the People's Group. It is not the most appropriate technique because it steals from the debate in this House certain reports that are interesting, especially in a matter that affects fundamental rights and public freedoms, as in this case. Secondly, the delay in bringing these transpositions affects, in particular, the 2014 directives and the 2015 agreement. The reasons why it is so late have not been explained and I have not heard them from the People's Party. The consequences of transposing directives later are that we have been involved in a sanction procedure by the European Union. Thirdly, the proposition is actually a totum revolution. Here, issues affecting the market, currency and terrorism are mixed. It is not the most appropriate technique because it affects legal certainty and this requires a detailed and serene study. Fourthly, it practically converts the Criminal Code into a legal monster because changes are made abruptly. Even three amendments that have been made since the adoption and publication of the 2014 Directive have not been used for incorporation. It is done with a technique that does not abound in coherence and safety, which is the technique of coding. Finally, the government's regulatory plan for 2018 is not fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, much of the directives are transposed out of time and that means sanctions, money that must be paid daily to the European Union and that could be spent on health, education or pensions. With regard to the project itself, logically, it is a transposition of the Community order and we have to accept it because Citizens are a party and a parliamentary group with a Europeanist vocation. We are in favour of a common project and the creation of a European judicial area where procedural guarantees are analysed, cooperation in the practice of due diligence and in the practice of evidence, and above all the equality of all citizens is guaranteed; on the other hand, we are also in favour of that Europe which stands alongside the victims and not the aggressors. In short, the proposal comes late and bad, but it is accepted. We reject the amendments because, as a whole - I do not have time to analyse them - they involve in many respects decriminalisation or reduction of penalties in areas as pointed out as terrorism or offences related to public subsidies or financial markets. With this situation - and I am referring to the Socialist Group's bench - with these partners with whom you have tabled these amendments, Unite Podemos and PDECAT, I should not be surprised at the outcome of the elections, as happened recently in Andalusia, where you have lost a good share of the seats. Worst of all, you do not end up assimilating the outcome of those elections, rejecting it and directly recriminating the voters because you turned your back on them. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here in the House has its reflection on the street and what is happening on the street has its reflection here in the House. Don't be surprised by these results. I shall end now, Madam President, by saying that in these days, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, in which many Spaniards expect a gift from Reyes Magos - and you have already seen the polls - the Spaniards do not expect to be autonomous because they are going to pay more with their budgets, they do not expect to have a diesel car because they are going to have to pay more taxes, they expect elections to be called. And I say to you that the longer Mr Sánchez calls the elections, the longer it will take you to regain the confidence of the electorate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u201	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u202	Thank you, Madam President. From the Socialist Group we want to thank the work done by all the parliamentary groups in the paper, whose opinion we are dealing with now, and especially the work of the lawyers of the house who have participated in it and who always assist us in the development of our legislative task in a fundamental way. This is an opinion on a proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code, in the financial and terrorist fields, which was submitted for consideration last May by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Justice. The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Criminal Code was multiple and broad. On the one hand, transpose four Union directives on penalties applicable to market abuse, combating terrorism, combating fraud and criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting. On the other hand, adapt it to the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs, opened for signature in Santiago de Compostela on 25 March 2015. And finally, to adapt it also to the parameters recommended by the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek, constituted within the Council of Europe, after its third evaluation round, in which some omissions were detected in the 1995 reform of the Criminal Code that could entail limitations to the fight against corruption. In short, this transposition of European law implies a modification of more than twenty articles of the Criminal Code which do not create new figures, but which essentially do change or extend existing figures to adapt them to new forms of crime, to the introduction of new technologies - also in practices of breaking criminal law -, to give greater security to the markets, to enable greater efficiency in the persecution of transnational criminal groups and, ultimately, to harmonise European criminal law and to provide greater legal certainty to the States and thus to the citizens of the Union. That twofold objective of improving our criminal legislation in order to achieve a more operational, more effective and more consistent administration of justice with the new realities and harmonisation with European law, this group fully shares it and for that reason we facilitate its processing and vote in favour of the report of the presentation, also in the Commission and we will now do so in plenary. We will do so, and we did so in the Commission, despite not sharing the legislative path chosen by the previous Government, which last May chose to do so by proposing organic law, in this case, when it was a modification of the Criminal Code, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group. However, the unequivocally European vocation of this Government and of this parliamentary group, our sense of responsibility and the will to fulfil Spain's obligations with its partners in the European Union, as well as the conviction that these amendments improve our criminal legislation, has led the Socialist Parliamentary Group to work loyally within the paper and, in the same vein, to vote in favour of this opinion here today in plenary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u203	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Blanco Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the end of the process of the initiative which my group presented a few months ago and which responded and responds to the objectives of transposing the directives of the European Union in the areas of finance and terrorism, and addressing outstanding international issues in criminal matters. This new regulation, which could in principle seem purely technical, is, however, very important for all citizens because it aims to try to make fraud or work more difficult for terrorists and thus harden the criminal reproach that these kinds of facts deserve. Thus, in the area of sanctions applicable to market abuse, the main purpose of this new regulation is to establish a common regulatory framework in the area of insider dealing, the illicit communication of insider dealing and market manipulation. It also sets out measures to prevent market abuse and thus ensure the integrity of the European Union's financial markets and strengthen investor protection and confidence in those markets. We are talking, of course, about the most serious cases, but when we do not reach these thresholds, we also have the administrative sanctioning law, in particular the Securities Market Act, which, as Minister Borrell knows and knows, punishes those who use privileged information to benefit a third party. In the fight against terrorism, the penalty increases to the top leaders of a terrorist organization or terrorist group; it establishes the penalty of absolute disqualification; it includes documentary falsity among terrorist crimes, as well as a broader regulation of travel for terrorist purposes, by not requiring the directive that the travel should have as its destination a territory controlled by terrorists. Finally, it also extends the criminal liability of legal persons for any type of terrorist offence. In short, ladies and gentlemen, better instruments to be increasingly effective in the fight against terrorism. There is no doubt that the transposition of this directive on terrorism is an important milestone in the week in which we are sitting, if we take into account that the Basque Nationalist Party - there are no members - has used precisely this week this plenary to present initiatives aimed at benefiting terrorists, on the one hand, to try to reduce the number of years in prison and, on the other, to whitewash the criminal history of ETA. Therefore, welcome is this directive that talks about what the vast majority of Spaniards think: more justice and less impunity for terrorists, that is, to close the door to possible shortcuts that some may try to look for. With regard to the fight against fraud, with the transposition of this directive, the criminal response at European level will be more appropriate, more harmonised and more firm vis-à-vis those who seek to benefit fraudulently from our system. On the other hand, with regard to the criminal protection of the euro, the range of sanctions that can be imposed on legal persons when they are criminally responsible for such acts is broadened. With regard to the prevention and prosecution of trafficking in organs, this initiative will enable Spain to be even more effective in combating and preventing trafficking in human organs through measures of substantive criminal law, analogous to the treatment of crimes of trafficking in human beings, thereby further protecting victims. In short, more protection, more security, more justice and less impunity. Lastly, the Criminal Code was amended with regard to corruption offences, which would be in line with the criteria set out in the Greek report. With regard to the amendments, I repeat what my group has said, both in the paper and in the Commission, for lack of time. I cannot go in and explain each of those who come alive to this plenary, but it is clear that we will vote against all those who remain alive in plenary, as I have just mentioned. I would not like to end this speech without thanking our colleague Paco Molinero, along with María José García Pelayo, for the work done. [[applause]] As you all know, today you cannot be in this rostrum because of a serious health problem you have had, but from which, fortunately, you have come out stupendously and very soon you will be back among us. I believe that I express the intention of all of you to wish you a speedy and speedy recovery. Above all, we have transferred all our affection to him and his family. I also thank the Commission's letters for the work it has done, which has undoubtedly contributed in a more decisive way to making our legislative task simpler and also much more effective. In short, I would like to thank everyone for their cooperation and effort. We are pleased to have participated in this task, which, as I have tried to point out, represents an important step forward in the legal certainty of the States of the European Union and, therefore, also of each and every citizen. In short, we are talking about more justice and, consequently, less impunity for those who seek to offend or attack the dignity of people. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much and Merry Christmas to all of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. [[The lady]] - PROPOSAL FOR REFORM OF THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY AUTONOMY STATUS ON THE PARTICIPATION OF VALENTIAN GENERALITY IN THE DECISIONS ON THE INVESTMENT OF THE STATE IN THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY [[PREVIOUSLY NAMED AS A PROPOSED REFORM OF THE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FIRST OF THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY AUTONOMY STATUS]] [[File number 127/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u206	We move on to the debate on the opinion on the proposal for a reform of the Autonomous Statute of the Valencian Community on the participation of the Valencian Generalitat in decisions on State investment in the Valencian Community, formerly called a proposal for a reform of the first additional provision of the Autonomous Statute of the Valencian Community. Since there were no amendments for their defence before the plenary, we moved on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. My welcome to the Valencian delegation encapsulated by the President of the Generality, by the Vice-President of the Generality, by the President of the Courts and by all the syndics, deputies and deputies of the different political parties. It's Christmas and Christmas are usually gifts. I remember that a gift I made to my daughters was a book; the book had the title: Where is Wally? Wally I relate him in this debate with Toni Cantó, who was neither in the paper nor in the Constitutional Commission. [[laughs]] He magnificently defended his position - he is a great parliamentarian - Mr Prendes. Citizens have five Valencian deputies; one of them, Mr. Cantó, pretends to be president of the Valencian Generalitat, pretends to be president, and the one who pretends to be president of the Valencian Generalitat is erased from the map. [[a Member of Parliament: Uh!]] Today I guess so, today it will be. But so far it had been erased from the map. Do you believe that one who pretends to be president of the Generalitat can be removed from the discussion of the most important law of his autonomous community? [[Applauds]] Anyway, everyone does what they do. I guess Wally's gonna show up today. I say it without acrid, Mr. Singing, you know we maintain a relationship of cordiality. But he will appear to be ashamed, after everyone has repudiated him that he had passed the most important law that has an autonomous community. And he'll say what he has to say. He will say: one, that this is a reform that is wet paper; then, he will talk about the financing system to lose track and, of course, taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about a Valencian law he will talk about Catalonia. They are so Valencian citizens' deputies, they are so Valencian that they always have Catalonia in their mouths. [[Applauds]] Taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, Catalonia; taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about the Statute, Catalonia. At good times, gentlemen of Citizens, talk about financing. You made an investment pact with 150 commitments to the People's Party and in one of those commitments you had the objective of making a working group to present a new funding model. They signed Mr Rajoy's investiture agreement in August and the motion of censure was in June; ten months without news of the financing system. This reform of the Valencian statute was agreed by all the parties, even you signed it, here is the signature of Citizens. [[Show a document]] They agreed and signed, they even tabled an amendment. What we have agreed is very similar to the amendment put forward by Citizens. Obviously, this is not the reform that Compromís would want, we would have preferred this to be endorsed by a referendum. Even I dare say more, today we would prefer to be adopting a new funding system if that investment agreement that Citizens and the People's Party had done their homework. But, finally, we are discussing the reform of the statute. This is the possible reform, which generated consensus. Sometimes saying this word here in this House is complicated, but it is important to give that message to the citizens: that we have been able to PSOE, Podemos and Compromís, even Republican Left, to sign something with the People's Party. [[Laughter]] It's important to say this. And Citizens, after signing the same thing we all agreed, now get off the bus. It seems to me that the position of Citizens is absolutely irresponsible. Reaching an agreement and then breaking it without objective causes seems to me to say little in favour of a party that is not able to comply with even the agreements it signs. I know, Madam President, I have to finish; remated. This agreement respects the spirit of the agreement in the Valencian Courts, that the investments are equivalent to the weight of the population, and also introduces a novelty, and is that the Generalitat and the local administration will participate in the decisions of the investment of the State. And I'm going to the first of your reviews. In politics everything can be wet paper; it was the agreement you signed with the People's Party, passed them with the financing system and passed them with your star amendment to the budgets of 10 million euros for the metropolitan transport of Valencia, which of 10 million has reached 1.5. I insist, it is not the reform that would have made Compromise, but it was the reform that we could all agree on. It will be a good reform if there is real political will; if you, if you ever have government responsibilities, apply it and do not get off the bus; if the parties that say yes today do it in the future. From today, Compromís we say that we will fulfill the pact that we make today with all Valencians and all Valencians. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u209	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate, on behalf of Esquerra Republicana, who was the first president of the autonomous body, Josep Lluís Albinyana i Olmos, who together with the president of Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià, Josep Barberà, visited political prisoners in Lledoners. President Albinyana, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] And we also welcome the very honorable President of the Generality of Valencia, Mr. Puig, and the members of the Government. First of all, we want to make it very clear that we have supported and will vote for this initiative to amend the Valencian Autonomy Statute. We are signatories to this initiative which aims to make the investments of the State in accordance with the volume of population through a commission formed by the Central Administration, the Government and the local administrations. After seven years; seven years waiting for a solution, with the negative economic impact this has entailed. We also wish to express our support for the Government of the Generalitat of the Valencian Country in all that is relevant to the need to obtain more resources to serve Valencian citizens. Today, Ford Almussafes is immersed in an employment regulation dossier: 6700 direct jobs, tens of thousands of indirect jobs; production has fallen by 10%. There are employment regulations in the regions of Castellón in the ceramics sector; threats of relocation. In fact, the negative consequences for the production, marketing and export of orange are being suffered as a result of the disastrous treaty between the European Union and South Africa, not to mention the shoe, toy and so on crisis. These uncertainties, this growing precariousness, this lack of competitiveness, this impoverishment is not attributable to the lack of dynamism of Valencian society, it is not attributable to the lack of entrepreneurial spirit. What's more, where the Valencià Country would be without this entrepreneurial capacity and dynamism of its society! There is one responsible, that is not other than the expolio; the expolio that has historically suffered the Valencia Country by the Spanish State, which has two legs: underfinancing and disinvestment. Infra-financing plus disinvestment equals expoliation. An underfunding that has allowed the oligarchy to renew the status quo through an unfair distribution of resources, which has been dragging away for forty years. A system based on the imbalance between administrations; a central Government appropriated a greater proportion of resources vis-à-vis the autonomous communities. A perversion that in the case of the Valencia Country is aggravated, because it turns out that a territory with a per capita income lower than the Spanish average, moreover, has fiscal deficit. This is what we call expolius; even in popular terms someone could use some term a little more forceful. There are 6 billion annual fiscal deficits, 1700 recognized by the Ministry of Finance. And disinvestment, which is the reflection of the contempt, year after year, in the General Budgets of the State despite the fact that - I believe - at least my parliamentary group has tabled dozens and dozens of amendments every year concerning investments in the Valencia Country. By the way, always rejected. Minimal progress in the Mediterranean corridor, which entails industrial problems in Elx, Onil, Elda, Ibi, in the port of Sagunto, etc. and threatens the competitiveness of the Valencian Community. And disinvestment, i.e. lack of investment, for example, in the railway network in the vicinity. Today it still takes more than two hours to go from Valencia to Alcoy. Territorialized investment of the Spanish State in the Valencia Country, last budgets of Mr Montoro, 150 euros per Valencian inhabitant per year, when the Spanish average - i.e. territorialized investment - is 217 euros; that is, 30% less. With this history you will understand that we have a certain suspicion and mistrust. Let's see if the next General State Budgets or others already show an investment of 10 or 11 %, which would correspond to the volume of population of the Valencia Country. Madam President, I'm done. The Valencia Country does not want loans; it has no sense to lend money to the Valencia Country - Valencian money that then has to be returned with interest - what is needed is fiscal sovereignty, that the Valencians can decide their own resources. In 2006 Don Agustí Cerdà already defended in the processing of the Statute of Autonomy the creation of the tax agency of the Valencia Country. Finally, we wonder what original sin the Valencians committed to suffer this expoliation. The answer of Valencian Republicanism is nothing other than that phrase so popular and so felt by so many Valencians and Valencians that says: When evil sees d'Almansa to all reaches. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u211	I've seen things you wouldn't believe, Blade Runner's replicator said. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will see how the government of the Botanic - PSOE, Podemos and Compromís, plus the PP; from now on we will call them Botanic Plus -, and with the unconditional support of Bildu, of the corrupt, of the three percent, of the couptists, etc., will approve a toast to the sun. [[protests]] They will adopt a measure that will not bring a single euro for Valencians in infrastructure and a measure that the Constitutional Court has already said is inapplicable. Today Mr Baldoví has come up here, in theory he was going to talk about a star measure that was going to change the lives of the Valencians, and he devoted all his intervention to talking about me. [[Applauds]] That, Mr. Baldoví, makes me very suspicious. Today, the Botànic Plus group will vote - I will give an example - in favour of the supremacist Torra deciding how the Mediterranean corridor should pass through Catalonia. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u212	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u213	The supremacist Torra with a few mayors from now on gathered in an assembly will decide what happens to the Mediterranean corridor, the width it has, its route, etc. And with that we will have to commulgate Andalusians, Batians, Valencians and the rest of the Spaniards. This is what you want to support today. If they want to end a dam or a transfer, we'll have to swallow it. This is what you are going to support here today: that an autonomous community, together with some mayors in an assembly, decide on the infrastructures of all of Spain. Really, gentlemen of the PSOE? Really, gentlemen of the PP? Even with an absolute majority they have not been able to bring autonomous funding to this House and they want us to sink that they are going to make this work! Aren't you ashamed to take the Spanish's hair like that? [[Applauds]] Here is the PSOE of the Valencian Community protesting against the poor financing that we have to suffer from the Valencians, the same PSOE that approves in this very House the privilege of the Basque coupon of the PNV. [[shows a photograph]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Same PSOE. Can two things be done so different at the same time? Yeah, the PSOE can. Here's Compromís behind a banner too. Compromís really likes banners and T-shirts. Today they call for the resolution of infrastructure under-financing and under-financing by the Valencian Community amounting to just over EUR 1 billion a year. We agree with that, but do you also know what's going on? That we do not agree that you will stop an investment of more than EUR 1 billion a few years ago in the port of Valencia, to set an example. We do not agree with what they are doing now, with curbing the investment of 700 million euros of Mediterranean Port; nor do we agree with that. Look at him, Navy project, this is what you guys are boycotting and we disagree. [[shows a press article]] But, look, the Botànic government has stopped spending EUR 920 million. You are a burden to the Valencian Community and we will never agree on your way of governing. [[applause.- Mr Baldoví Roda utters words that are not perceived]] Mr Baldoví, we have to endure how a director of Commerce publicly says to English investors: Go home. We have to endure how a director of Commodity Trade tells a foreign company that it will bring 700 million euros to the Valencian Community, to Valencia, says: Go home. Mr. Baldoví, go home is what you have to do. Those who are going home are you, the Government of Botànic, Compromís, who are a real waste to the Valencian Community. You are going to leave and you are going to leave all the family members, couples and plugs that you have placed in the Valencian Administration. [[Applauds]] We have worked - because that is what needs to be done here - to negotiate with the People's Party the Mediterranean Corridor and good funding for the timely construction of that Corridor. The first deputy who spoke here about the Mediterranean corridor was a Valencian, González Lizondo, thirty years ago. Thirty years, gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, and we still don't have a runner in the Valencian Community as God commands! We have requested a national recruitment oversight office to rid the Spaniards of all their occurrences. We don't want more empty airports, we don't want more empty AVE stops, we don't want more useless highways that we have to pay for among all. But in this you also ask that the criterion of the population be used in the Valencian Community; in the Catalan one, the gross domestic product; in the Balearic Islands, comparing the average investment per capita and taking into account the differential fact; in Castile and León, taking into account the area of the territory. It's a shame! Stop fooling the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. The Valencian Community is currently suffering from three deficits: a financing deficit, a deficit in infrastructure and a deficit in good governance. Lords of the Valencian tripartite, they were good to help fall to the People's Party. They're good at destroying, but they're not good at building, they're not sensitive, they're not creative, they don't want to work, and they don't know how to do it. Go home; stop putting obstacles to the growth of Valencians. You're a ballast to us. Thank you, President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u214	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just attended the first meeting of candidate Don Antonio Cantó García del Moral at the next autonomous elections to the Valencian Courts. [[Applauds]] And, Mr. Singing, you barely start doing this rally if you start lying. I think the term you used is: unrealizable. He said that what the General Courts are going to approve today is unattainable. Well, no, Mr. Singing, it's not unreachable, not much less. What these General Courts approve is law and must be enforced. And what is said in judgment 31/2010, which was already stated in the statement of reasons for this amendment, is that the General Courts are not subject to the mandate to comply with this, but the Government of Spain... [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative signs]] Yes, Don Antonio García del Moral, the Government of Spain, by article 134 of the Constitution, is competent to bring the draft budget and, therefore, to comply with what these General Courts approve, for the Valencian country or for Catalonia or for Castile and León. Because it has been approved by these General Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, before leaving my colleague to speak, on behalf of my parliamentary group I would like to thank the rest of the groups in the House for being able to carry out a very lengthy procedure, and also today, 20 December, because thanks to this we are going to leave enough time for the Senate to finish processing it and for the Valencian Courts, before being dissolved next March, to be able to make this modification of the status of autonomy, which I recall is pending since March 2011 when it was approved in the Valencian Courts and since the admission to this amendment was debated here in October 2016. Today, finally, after more than two years, after the extension of the deadline for amendments, we can conclude it. And I do not want to end without thanking the rest of the groups that have been able to negotiate the amendment that submitted years ago Esquerra Unita del País Valencià in the Valencian Courts in order to incorporate the local administration into that commission that has to study the issue of investments. Today, at last, that amendment of so many years ago will become part of the text of our statute of autonomy. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u216	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ballester Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u217	Thank you, President. First of all, a cordial greeting to the representatives of the valiant people who accompany us to the rostrum, to the very honorable President, Vice President, President of the Valencian Courts and fellow Members of Parliament. Mr. Singing, you have no word, your signature is worthless. Today it has become clear here that you would sell to the Valencian people for a headline. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time I have come up to this rostrum to talk about the reform of the Statute. It is a personal detail, but in addition to the almost fifty postponements and the seven years that we have been waiting for is a sign of contempt for the Valencian people. Thank you, People's Party and Citizens, for those blockades. It might seem, after so long, that this is the end of the road - or the day of the marmot -. We are, indeed, at the end of a phase, but we are not at the end of the path; in fact, we think that this must be the beginning of a path that resolves the inequality that the Valencian people suffer, resolved also through autonomous financing. I do not want to stop saying here that it was a promise from the government of Pedro Sánchez, which we are still waiting for him to fulfil. But let's talk about investment. What we are asking in this reform is for the population weight of the Valencian Community to be reflected in investments of 11%. In the last General State Budgets we have had 6.8% and 7.3% in investments. On these percentages, which may not be told to you, the well-being of Valencians and Valencians depends on the functioning of our network of neighbourhoods; it depends on whether or not we have a Mediterranean corridor; it depends on whether we have a train from the coast; it depends on whether we have electrified or unelectrified lines; it depends on whether the per capita income of Valencia is lower than the Spanish average or whether the levels of poverty and exclusion are higher than that Spanish average. This reform is therefore necessary for Valencian citizens and it has been shown that no Government has moved a finger to resolve this inequality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you will come up here, you will talk about Valencian interests and we will all welcome the fact that this long parliamentary road ends here and that we have all agreed, but you could have solved it before. If Mr Rajoy had wanted to, these budgets which are still in force would have already budgeted 11 % of investments for the Valencian Community. It's that simple. But you have done nothing to improve investment and have done nothing to improve Valencian financing; on the contrary, you have contributed to your mismanagement and corruption that we now have 40 billion debt in the Valencian Community. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are not going to go back to the past, but we could also bring out the colours on this subject. Let's hope we don't have to do this in the future. This reform is valid. From here I would tell Pedro Sánchez, the ministers and ministers of government, that this reform has a lot of political strength, that this agreement has political strength and that behind this reform and this agreement is the Valencian people, the Valencian business fabric and civil society. You are going to present a budget; here we want to see your commitment to the Valencian Community, we are going to be monitoring that commitment and we are going to be demanding what you have said you will be fulfilling. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u218	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u219	Thank you, Madam President. President, very honorable President of the Valencian Generalitat, very excellent President of the Valencian Corts, Vice President, Councillor, on December 13, 2011, this proposal for reform of the Valencian statute entered this Congress for the first time; three legislatures. [[Continue your intervention in Valencian]] And today, December 20, seven years and seven days later, this Congress will approve it and be with a president of the government of the socialist nation, Pedro Sánchez, and with a president of the Socialist Valencian Generalitat, Ximo Puig. [[Applauds]] It will be approved by 90% of this House, the Delegation of the Valencian Courts and thanks - I think it would be fair to recognise this - to the impulse of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with the resignation of Citizens not only to defend but I would even say to represent the Valencians after proving that they have no word and that the signature of their spokesman in a document of this House - I regret to say, Mr Gutiérrez - is worth nothing. Mr Cantó, I hope that the affection I have and that you know will not prevent me or lead me to raise the tone in the answer and to maintain a measured tone but that it will allow me to tell you what I sincerely believe you deserve. I will not deny you the status of legitimate representative of the Valencians, of course not, but you will recognize me, Mr Cantó, that you are better empathized with the needs, suffering, obstacles, pain of the Valencians, treading territory that on trips back and forth in AVE from Madrid, you will recognize me, Mr Cantó. [[Sir.]] Of course, Mr Cantó, I will recognize - it cannot be otherwise - your status as legitimate representative of the Valencians, it would be missing more, but you could have exercised that legitimate representation a week ago in the Constitutional Commission instead of sending an illustrious representative of Asturias to the Constitutional Commission to announce to them the Valencian Members, the delegation of the Valencian Courts, the good news, the new reconquer, the reconquering reconquer, to greater glory, of course, of Mr Rivera. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: I have been appointed]] [[applause]] Mr Cantó, today you could perfectly have finished this intervention to the cry of: One, great and free, alive Spain, above Spain!, but that was another Spain, not this, this is constitutional Spain, Mr Girauta, Spain that just fifteen days ago we honored here in the person of the representatives of the constituent parents. [[applause]] But what's the matter, that we're all separatists now? The PP too? We're all separatists now, as you said. They are already the only ones who remain as legitimate representatives of constitutionalism, they are already the only constitutionalists in this House; of course, outside the House they always have Vox, because now only Citizens and Vox are the only constitutionalists, the spiritual reserve of Spanish constitutionalism. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not fall into the trap of Citizens, who seek confrontation and conflict, and let us celebrate the great agreement reached, because with this reform we citizens simply claim justice without victimism. We do not deserve to continue paying the bill of injustice; other bills we will continue to pay, but that of injustice does not, the injustice of autonomous under-financing and the injustice of a division of State investments that, of course, discriminates against Valencians. Because the Valencians have barely received 5% of the state's investments, when they represent 11% in population, ladies and gentlemen; at the tail in autonomous financing and in state investments, with a per capita income below the average, with a tax contribution above the average, and that is less opportunities and less rights. It has been said that this proposal is legally irrelevant. That is not true; the Supreme Court's ruling of 2 November 2017 clearly states this, as it obliges the Government to include in the budget bill the agreements reached with an autonomous community on the infrastructure investment deficit. The Government, Mr Cantó, is bound by the agreements that meet this population criterion. The Government has a legal duty to comply with the agreement of constitutional loyalty. That's right. Thus, last September 25, the Government of the nation announced that in the next four fiscal years it would transfer to the Generalitat of Catalonia 759 million euros, generated by the State's investment deficit in that community and in application of the third additional provision of its statute. I'm done, President. Can anyone continue to maintain here today that this statutory provision is legally irrelevant? No, no, [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Yes]] No, no, don't deny reality, don't deny evidence. But it is also that this reform of the statute - I conclude, President - goes further, because it has already been said that it enables the participation of the Valencian Generalitat in the decisions on investments of the State in the Valencian Community; it constitutes a commission to agree and monitor the fulfillment of this statutory provision. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has reached a high consensus - I conclude, Madam President - which was agreed by the delegation of the Valencian Courts. Let us celebrate it and congratulate ourselves on it. And, for my part, I also want to congratulate you on the Christmas holidays and wish you my best wishes for next year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Camps Devesa has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as in the four previous times I have had occasion, I begin my words on this subject by welcoming the representatives of both the Government and the Valencian Courts, the very Honourable President of the Generalitat, the very Honourable President of Les Corts, the syndic and, in particular, the regional president of my party, the syndic spokesman also in the Valencian Courts, Isabel Bonig. [[Applauds]] And I also continue in the same way as I have on the four previous occasions. The title of this proposal says exactly: Proposal for reform of the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. I stress, of the Valencian Community; in bold and underlined, of the Valencian Community, not of the country of Valencians nor a Valencian Country that exists only in the collective imagination of some. [[Applauds]] My land is called the Valencian Community and, by the way, Mr Cantó, my president is Mr Puig, not Mr Torra. You get on the back of the horse of parliamentary demagogy and you get caught up in it. And then, in addition, it shows his ignorance. What do you mean that some mayors meeting in assembly - which is not what this proposal says, of course - are going to decide with I don't know which president...? But do you not already know that in order to decide on investments, even if they are financed by the State General Budgets, the municipalities and the autonomous governments make allegations? Or you, who pretends to be president of the Generalitat, when you are going to execute an investment in your territory you will not want to think, even if it is an investment financed by the General Budgets of the State?What daring is the ignorance sometimes! [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, we have not come here to add to this proposal what, for the most part, I do not know. [[Protests]] We were the ones who promoted this proposal. Mr Cantó should know this because he had the opportunity to witness the first of the debates of consideration; he was in another group, but he was already a Member of these Courts, he was in another party but he was already a Member of these Courts, and then he had twice the opportunity to do so from the group and the party in which he is currently campaigning. [[applause]] You should know that this statutory reform that will today receive the support of almost all groups in this House in the form of a compromise amendment was initially presented by the People's Party Council. By the way, Mr Rallo, by the council of the People's Party. It governed the People's Party when this proposal was approved at the Valencian Courts. This statutory reform was approved by autonomous courts with a majority of the People's Party; this statutory reform was taken into consideration in this House three times with the vote in favour of who was then, and today is the majority group, the People's Parliamentary Group; and this reform is to be approved today definitively in the form of a compromise amendment with the vote in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group, which I am very proud to represent in this debate as a Valencian and Spanish deputy, because, for Valencians, we are Spanish. We're a Spanish group. [[Applauds]] We have been the main drivers of this reform, ladies and gentlemen, and our commitment has always been characterized by two things: rigour and coherence. Rigor, because we have always argued that the cause and main basis of this proposal - take good care of me, ladies and gentlemen - was to prevent the consolidation of an unjust and insolidary model, the result of the decisions taken by the Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who wanted to make a model in which some autonomous communities could, to the detriment of others, access more investments or more infrastructure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u222	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u223	Rigor, ladies and gentlemen, because we are aware that this provision does not bind the General Courts in the exercise of their functions of examining and approving the General Budgets of the State. That is why there is absolutely no rigour for those who claim that if such a provision is adopted we are going to build in the autonomous statutes a kind of map of the investments that are fixed is not known where. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not that. Coherence, because we have always voted in favour of this proposal, both in the Valencian Courts and in the Congress of Deputies; and not with the inconsistency that others have had. Rigor and consistency that we maintain when we also reach a compromise agreement with a wording that clearly improves the initial text but does not depart a single millimeter from the content of the proposal approved by the Valencian Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Valencian Community does not intend to be above any territory, but it will also not give up its legitimate aspirations, as legitimate as those which can have a Basque, a Canary, a Catalan, a Galician or an Andalusian and also the Valencians. This legitimate aspiration is reflected in this compromise amendment. A legitimate aspiration that today is reflected in our status of autonomy and in an organic law that these Courts are going to approve and that has to be the same as any Spanish can have in our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a debate on the funding model. When you want to talk little about the bottom of a subject, you usually spread out to other issues. No, ladies, no. It is a debate on the investments that we aspire to have in the Valencian Community. Today, Mr. Singing, you have made a monument to political incoherence. I'm done, Madam President. You have changed positions and spokesmen as if you were a sail on a day of brittle wind. They have done an exercise in unparalleled political funambulism, but they have fallen off the wire and besides, there is no network. Mr. Singing, our signature is worth the same as our word. Is your word worth the same as your signature? Because you signed a compromise amendment and almost forty-eight hours ago it was no longer worth anything. That was wet paper. Mr. Singing, can anyone be credible to sign something and deny it immediately? Can it be credible someone who is submitting an addendum amendment - that means that the text is good, because it is not of deletion or of return; you have tabled an addendum amendment - and then you say that you do not agree with the content of that rule? Mr. Cantó, are you credible when you have been supporting Susana Díaz's government for four years and not once have you been told to repeal a proposal exactly like the one that says you are not going to vote as a Valencian? [[Applauds]] No, Mr. Singing, you're not credible. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. I'm done, Madam President. I end up in the same way that I have finished the four debates on this subject that I have had the opportunity to hold. Words of Mariano Rajoy: With the People's Party it is possible to go anywhere within the constitutional path and nowhere outside it. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good if everyone - here we are talking about the Valencian Community and what it really needs; not about other issues that I have heard this morning - demanded the Spanish Government to ask the European Commission for the safeguard clause provided for in Article 34 of the Agreement with South Africa to prevent the entry of orange from South Africa. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u224	Thank you very much. We thank the delegation chaired by the President of the Valencian Generalitat and all those who are with us because we were unable to do so at the beginning of the debate on this initiative. Be very welcome and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u225	The next item is the debate on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rules 111 and 126. An amendment to the entire alternative text by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Why are we presenting this amendment in its entirety from the People's Parliamentary Group? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wishes to remain in the Chamber who remains silent and, if not, abandons the Chamber. Go ahead, Mrs. Borrego.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u228	With this amendment, we reaffirm our position in the debate on the adoption of the reform of the regulation, which affected the constitutional prerogative of the so-called budgetary veto. [[The Lord]] The proposal was made when we were still waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on the matter. It was not the right time to put it. We should have waited for the court's decision and we said so in that intervention. Since that date, three Constitutional Court judgements have been handed down on the subject, the latter two days ago. Moreover, the proposal of the Proponent Group Podemos affected the separation of powers and affected the balance between powers, disbalancing the balance in the interpretation of a constitutional precept. Ladies and gentlemen, my group defends the same position when it is in the government as when it is in the opposition. What does the spokesman of Podemos now think when in that debate he said that the royal decree-law was a trap that prevented legislation? What do you think now nineteen in six months? The State General Budgets are an essential element in the annual implementation of the Government's political programme. They are the encrypted translation of a Government's policy, which explains that the Constitution dedicates article 134 to it and that article 66.2 establishes the budgetary function as a connected but separate function from the legislative one. The rulings of the Constitutional Court recognize article 134.6, which is consistent with the role of the Government, which is responsible for the direction and direction of economic policy. The predominant role of the Government in the preparation and implementation of the budget is common to all States in our environment, which also include figures similar to the so-called budget veto. It is for the Bureau of Congress to exercise a function of qualification of the Government's criterion. Such a function must always have a legal-technical character, and it cannot in any case meet criteria of political opportunity. The Government may veto, but such veto must be justified and motivated by it. And the Bureau cannot hinder the exercise of the power of the Government or replace its assessment of the budgetary condition of a proposed law or amendment. The Bureau must ensure the fundamental rights of parliamentarians and must also safeguard the exclusive competence attributed by 134.6 to the Government in accordance with the principle of institutional loyalty to govern relations between constitutional bodies. That said, and while respecting the constitutional power granted to the Government, trying to limit that power by reforming the articles of our regulations that bring about the same is not admissible, is not admissible and therefore we vote against, it would be a clear covert reform of the Constitution. However, the recent rulings of the Constitutional Court of April and December, a few days ago, respecting the constitutional power of the Government, admit that it must conform to certain channels for its implementation; channels that can be developed by amending articles 126 and 111 of the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, the rulings go further than that by laying down the lines on which this amendment should go in order to combine the power of the Government with respect for the legislative initiative of the groups. The amendment we are submitting is precisely in line with that. The aim is to find a balance between the two powers, by carefully developing the procedure, the steps and the deadlines to be followed in order to make it effective and necessarily adapt it to the requirement of speed required by parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, our alternative text offers a balanced and up-to-date solution to the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Our proposal respects the separation of powers, does not rebalance the balance either towards the Legislative Power or towards the Executive, respects the constitutional right of budgetary veto, is in accordance with the philosophy and meaning that the constituent gave to article 134.6 of our Constitution and establishes the procedure to be followed by the Bureau of Congress on the basis of technical criteria. In short, it is a constructive proposal which my group has advocated when considering from one situation and now, from another totally different one, it defends the same with consistency. From my group we believe in the work of parliamentarians and, of course, we defend the separation of powers. Thank you so much and Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrego. Mr Campuzano i Canades, speaking on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, took the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. I will intervene from the seat and shortly. We are going to reject this amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party. In political terms, it is very clear that when you ruled you abused that constitutional right of the Government to veto initiatives with budgetary cost. If we had followed in that direction, it is clear that this House would have had no capacity to legislate since the initiative of the opposition groups. We must therefore make progress in this regulatory reform that Uniti Podemos initiated with this bill and, on the basis of precisely those rulings of the Constitutional Court, ensure that this House can exercise its functions as a legislative initiative; otherwise, it is to have a profoundly undemocratic conception of the functioning of the Congress of Deputies. We will therefore reject your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u232	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it soon. We are discussing an amendment to the whole with an alternative text which we will not support, but not because we are radically disparate with what is proposed, which is not so, but rather because the difference between this amendment to the whole and the amended text is likely to be dealt with through partial amendments to the joint text. Nor will we support it because it is the view of this Basque parliamentary group to respect the institutional position of the parliamentary group that is the author of the initiative during the future parliamentary process whenever possible, as is the case here. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President, and happy holidays to everyone and everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u234	Thank you, President. I have already told you that we are going to vote against the amendment tabled by the People's Party as a whole to the proposal to amend Rules 111 and 126 of the Rules of Procedure. During the governments of the People's Party we have witnessed a systematic process of parliamentary immobilism which has ended up distorting the very role of Parliament, the legislative one. Indeed, of the three powers of the State, the Legislature is precisely the only space that maintains as pillars the ideological debate, the framework of agreement and the representation of social heterogeneity. Some still have to believe that democracy is overvalued, in fact, the governments of the People's Party have been the governments of the veto and we are all aware: not to the right of demonstration, not to the right of freedom of opinion and expression, not to the right of self-determination. In short, not the right and the social and political debate. They will be known more for what they have not done or have not let do than for what they have actually done. The use of the veto to any initiative that does not come directly from the Government, far from being an exceptional resource, is now part of the political strategy of the ruling parties to block the legislative initiative of the opposition. I do not know whether you are aware that this ends up affecting Parliament's own legislative capacity. In order to prevent such abuse and limit and regulate the veto power of the Government, the amendment to articles 111 and 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress was proposed at the time. A power based on articles 134.6 of the Constitution and 126.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress; any regulation confers exclusively on the Executive the power to give its assent or to veto any proposal or amendment that entails an increase in appropriations or a decrease in budgeted income. So far we agree; what we denounce is not so much the norm as the arbitrary use that is being made of this prerogative of the Government. And it is that, as the spokesman of the Confederal Group has already advanced, the former Government of the People's Party has abused the parliamentary mechanisms to veto, interrupt or delay parliamentary opposition initiatives, to extend indefinitely the deadline for amendments in the process of a law, to convert an extraordinary mechanism on the proposal of the Government - such as the actual decree-law - into a regular remedy to legislate according to the will of the Executive and, of course, to interrupt the process of debate of the initiatives in the Bureau itself, applying indiscriminately the budgetary veto of the Government. It is the same perversion of the system itself. In this regard, the proposal of my Confederal Group seeks to reform this prerogative of the Executive; a prerogative whose misuse may limit the main function of the Legislature, thereby violating the fundamental principle of the rule of law, which is the separation of powers. The PP's argument in its amendment to the whole insists that it is necessary to prevent the Bureau from taking initiatives on which the Government had expressed its disagreement without even asking for the extension of this information, following more of a political criterion than merely of a technical-legal nature. And my question is: And the government's veto is not based on political criteria? Does the Government's veto not really follow political criteria? In accordance with the precedents and jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the matter, the Bureau, in addition to monitoring compliance with formal requirements by the Government, may also examine the content of the reasoning provided by the Government on the basis of other articles of the Rules of Procedure. To this end, and if the Bureau deems it necessary, it may request the Government to provide further information in order to ensure that its decision is the appropriate one, but above all that it does not entail a violation of the fundamental rights of parliamentarians, in accordance with article 23.1 and 2 of the Constitution. On the other hand - and in conclusion - we can understand that the Government's veto is confined to the current budget, but under no circumstances is it understood that it can affect future budgets that have not yet been drawn up or are in the process of approval. In this case, legislative initiatives are still political proposals which, in the process of drawing up and approving new budgets, must be taken into account. Or is this not the function of the Legislature? To consider it another way, in fact, would be pure censorship. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u237	Wait a minute, Mr. Gómez Balsera. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u238	The People's Group has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the reform of Rules 111 and 126 of the House's Rules of Procedure, which regulate the government's vetoes of the legislative initiative and the amendments that we put forward by the groups when they affect the budgets in force. As we said in the discussion, this is a serious debate, it is an important debate that my group is addressing on the basis of some considerations. First, we from the opposition have never exercised the veto, let alone abusively, as the people have exercised it and as the socialists have exercised it. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we have suffered the popular veto and we have suffered the socialist veto on our legislative initiative. And third, our representatives on the Bureau have voted to lift some government vetoes because they are manifestly arbitrary and unjustified. We therefore welcome the seriousness, rigour, responsibility and utmost respect for the Constitution, unlike you, who are only annoyed by the veto when exercised by a government of different signs. Because when you rule, it doesn't bother you at all, it doesn't shake your pulse when you sign vetoes. And it is that some forget intentionally and only depending on whether or not they sit on the blue bench, that this is a prerogative that the Constitution grants to the Government to preserve the fulfilment of its political programme based on or embodied in the budgets, a prerogative that involves restricting the legislative initiative of the House, yes, but that is done to preserve a norm, the General Budgets of the State, that we do not forget that they are also approved by the Courts in the exercise of one of its main powers. Budgets which are also brought by the Government, whose President is also voted and elected by this House. As was the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that some of you have forgotten that you participated in the democratic election of the members of this Bureau. That is why, because we are faced with a delicate game of balance, the debate transcends the Rules themselves and that this amendment can affect the separation of powers and the system of balances and counterweights that our Magna Charter establishes between these powers. What makes us citizens jump all the alarms, causes us to be jealous and cautious, because all of you - I repeat, all of you - have shown us many times that you do not believe in the separation of powers: with Amendment 32, when Mr Rajoy did not want to submit to control; with the incomparencies of some minister and today, that even United We can vote against the depoliticization of justice. By the way, what are you going to vote Compromís, Mr. Baldoví? I'll tell you where Wally is. Wally stands beside the respect he feels for the separation of powers and the independence of justice. [[Applauds]] We also said in the debate that it was then an impertinent debate because the original initiative had been presented without our Constitutional Court having yet ruled on the conflict of competences presented by the Government against those Bureau agreements that raised vetoes, and unfortunately for the proposing group time has given us the reason. The ruling of the Constitutional Court has arrived and laid down clear criteria for the exercise of this prerogative by the Government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u239	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u240	What are they? The strict link to the budget rule as an enabling budget. The explicit justification for the connection between the proposed measure and the increase in expenditure or the decrease in revenue, which must be direct and immediate, current and not merely hypothetical, i.e. referring to the current budget. These are the criteria of the Constitution and they are not others, let alone of substance, these are the criteria to be monitored by the Bureau. It turns out, then, that the alternative text proposed in the amendment to the whole conforms better to these criteria than the original text, which, as I said, was presented on time. It is therefore a better basis on which to work, so we will vote in favour of this amendment as a whole without prejudice to the possibility of introducing partial amendments. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I also take this opportunity to wish you all, as well as the staff at the service of the House and all the workers, a Merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I give the floor to Mr. Exposito Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u242	Thank you, President. Fellow MPs, fellow MPs, can a citizen still be harassed by the crisis and the setback of their rights in the last decade understand that we are wasting time discussing the raging regulatory mechanics of Congress? Well, yes. We have a duty today to explain to the public that this is important for the following reason. There must be proper rules of the game so that this Parliament can be a living expression of popular sovereignty. Only then will we be able to place people's lives and the interests of citizens at the centre of legislative work. We are discussing a very acute conflict that we have suffered for a year. This is how far the executive power can go by exercising the veto over the functioning of this legislative power. And look where just yesterday the Constitutional Court has just ruled against the claim that the People's Party Government had to veto unilaterally against the initiatives of this Parliament. What was the target? To prevent us from discussing measures on pensions, the minimum wage or the quality of public education. Citizenship needs to know that politics also operates through procedures. It is not true that the regulations are the sacred tables of the law that are given to us on Mount Sinai. A constitution is the result of the correlation of forces that exists at the historical moment when it is drafted and, although our constitutional order contemplates the separation of powers, the fact is that in the regime that arises with the 1978 Constitution we have in practice had a legislative power subordinate to an executive power, in turn monopolized by bipartisanism. Why was it like that? Because our constitutional order sought stable governance that over three decades has gone from being stable to being a fossil. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u243	Wait a minute, Mr. Exposé. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very long sitting, and we are all aware of that. We are coming to the end and, please, I would ask the speaker for respect and silence so that we can finish as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u244	Thank you, President. We are tired, but we are playing with the fact that this House can work freely or with its hands tied thanks to the People's Party's pretence with the citizens' crutches. As a result of the recent crisis, this House now resembles its society a little more than two decades ago, it is more representative of the diversity of the citizens and the peoples of the State. It has, it is true, a fragmented appearance, but that allows alliances and correlations of forces more unpredictable and, therefore, richer than in the previous party system. Let's call things by their name, ladies and gentlemen. In the last two legislatures, this new form adopted by the Legislature is unleashing a pulse so as not to continue to be subjected to a Government and a single party in the Government. Article 134.6 of the Constitution and 126.2 of the Rules of Procedure of this House certainly allow the Government to request the Bureau of Congress not to accept parliamentary initiatives affecting the general budgets of the State in force. It is a reasonable prerogative, but it is that in March 2017 the People's Party government presented twenty veto demands and in the following months several dozen more. Only in one year did the People's Party Government present a number of vetoes equivalent to that of several previous legislatures together. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop trying to drive this Parliament through some regulatory back door, sometimes with help. This conflict of powers between the Executive and the Legislature was resolved by the Constitutional Court in its two judgments of 17 and 26 April 2018 in favour of ensuring in an effective way - in an effective way, I repeat - the separation of powers. Of course, the Government can apply for the veto, but one, not on initiatives that do not affect the current budgets, and two, the Congressional Bureau has the power to protest against the Government's claims, provided that the Bureau considers and argues that a requested veto is unsubstantiated. And that's the point. This is, by the way, the position we have been defending since the beginning of this conflict. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] It must be remembered that this conflict between a new type of legislative power and an executive who wants to continue to maintain veto privileges has taken and is taking different forms in the parliamentary debate. The Government in office of the People's Party refused to submit to parliamentary control during the previous legislature. Listen carefully to those who cannot believe it: the People's Party Government refused, because it was in office, to subject itself to the control of this Parliament. The Constitutional Court's ruling of 22 November solved this problem. I translate it to Paladin Roman: The PP government declared itself in disobedience to this Parliament without any foundation. [[Applauds]] The truth is that all these conflicts between the Executive and the Legislature break out because we now have a Parliament that represents, in a new way and finally, popular sovereignty. I conclude, President. We are going to vote against this amendment to the whole tabled by the Group of the European People's Party to our original proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House; an amendment which, by the way, in the light of the last rulings of the Constitution would not even be necessary, because they are completely forceful and conclusive judgments and, moreover, they make case law and are binding. We have come to this House, and that is the fundamental reason why we are going to vote against today, with a mandate: that all the initiatives necessary to improve the lives of ordinary people be debated. Because the vices and privileges of the old system of parties of the old regime have to be ended, because this new legislative power has to be able to speak without gags and that is what our negative vote to the People's Party means today. [[applause]] New times have come, we are recomposing democracy; change your attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u245	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ciscar Casabán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to fix the position in the amendment of the whole with an alternative text tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which was an initiative of the United Group We can, with regard to the amendment of Rules 111 and 116. My group voted in favour of taking the initiative into consideration on 24 October 2017, that is, a little over a year ago, because it was considered a timely initiative and because there had been an abuse in the exercise of the prerogative... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u247	Wait a minute, Mr. Císcar. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u248	As I was telling you, my group voted favourably because it was considered a timely initiative and because there had been an abuse in the exercise of the prerogative that article 134 of the Constitution confers on the Government. The first question is why, after thirty-eight years, it is the first time that such an initiative has been presented in the Congress of Deputies. What had happened so that that would be so and this aspect would never have been questioned? Basically what happened was that, in a single year, that is, after the loss of the absolute majority by the People's Party, in a single year, sixty-four vetoes were sent to the House for initiatives that had been raised by the various parliamentary groups and on twelve occasions by the autonomous communities. The difference, on the other hand, is already marked. Since 2 June the Socialist Government has given its express consent to fifty-seven initiatives by the various groups of the House and, without giving its express consent, has not opposed sixty initiatives of the House. Therefore, the difference in treatment is evident and the explanation that for thirty-eight years it would not have occurred and occurred in 2017 has to do with something, which is the abuse in the application of article 134 of the Constitution. Recent judgements a couple of days ago clearly determine what the application should be, when misapplied some of the facts that had been challenged before the Constitutional Court itself, and clearly determine what form it should be... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u249	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u250	... to understand the application of article 134 of the Constitution. My group therefore shares the approach of article 134 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the Government will be able to veto initiatives that increase expenditure or reduce revenue and always refer, as is clear, to the current budget and not to the future and to those initiatives that do not therefore affect the budget itself. At the moment I must tell you that my group rejects the amendment of the whole with an alternative text tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group because, fundamentally and first of all, it is trying to reduce the conditions on the part of the Government for the application of that veto, as can be seen from the very judgment that we are currently considering. Secondly, because it is also trying to reduce the capacity of the Bureau of Congress in terms of powers and demands so that it can refuse votes requested by the Government more precisely and with greater content than has been done so far. At the same time, it may be thought that this whole amendment could have been resolved perfectly by the proposing group with some partial amendment, and if it has done so as a whole amendment, it can be concluded that it has to do with the desire to extend the procedure further, after having paralysed it for a year, and to create, therefore, greater difficulties and achieve that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u251	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u252	... which is called buying time. For all these reasons, my group will vote against this amendment in its entirety with an alternative text. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all happy holidays. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u254	We turn to the agenda item on the request for an extension of the deadline for the subcommission for electoral reform, set up within the Constitutional Commission, for the issuance of a report until 30 June 2019. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u255	Before voting, an institutional statement has been sent to the Bureau, with the agreement of the groups, to which the first secretary proceeds to read. Go ahead, secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u256	Thank you, President. Today the mariner family, the world of the sea in Galicia, saw again in mourning for a double drama at the gates of Christmas. In the last 24 hours two unfortunate accidents have claimed the lives of four sailors and another one who is missing in the waters of the Atlantic, south of Fisterra. In the afternoon of yesterday, the 19th, the first of the shipwrecks was produced, when the fisherman Sin Querer Two sank, based in the port of Portonovo, losing the life of three of its crew members and finding another of them disappeared. Cambados, the Ponto-Vedress town of residence of all of them, now holds official mourning and tries to transfer the consolation to their relatives. This morning, a new accident shocked us again. At the exit of the port of Malpica, the Silvesa fisherman fell and his boss died and his other three crewmen were rescued. The Congress of Deputies wants to recognize the hard and sacrificed work that, day by day, women and men do at sea, while wishing to transfer the relatives of the deceased sailors, to the brotherhoods of fishermen to which they belonged and to the municipalities of Cambados and Malpica their sorrow for the sad losses of human lives, and to the family of the disappeared sailor the desire to find it as soon as possible. Rest in peace. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u257	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u258	We begin the voting. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for special cooperation because it is quite a lot of votes, because there are organic texts and, therefore, because it is the most complex vote than usual. We are voting, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on non-compliance with the principles of impartiality, objectivity and neutrality in the work of the Centre for Sociological Research. We're going to vote for points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 165 against, 164 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u259	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] We voted on point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 262 against, 66 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u260	It was adopted. - the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Cyprus on measures for the integration of non-regulatory immigrants residing in the Spanish State and their families. [[File number 173/000131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u261	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, on measures for the integration of non-regularized immigrants residing in the Spanish State and their families. We voted in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 205 against, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u262	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u263	We will now vote on the agreement that, in accordance with Article 15 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government and each of its subsectors for the period 2019-2021 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for 2019 are set. The objectives of budgetary stability and public debt proposed by the Government are voted upon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 173 plus 3 telematics votes, 176; against, 167 plus 1 telematics vote, 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u264	They are approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to Royal Decree-Law 20/2018 of 7 December 2018 for urgent measures to boost economic competitiveness in the industry and trade sector in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 3 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 110 plus 1 telematics vote, 111; against, 4; abstentions, 226 plus 2 telematics votes, 228.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u266	It's validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 340 plus 3 telematics votes, 343; against 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u267	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u268	We now move on to the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. We shall vote separately on the amendments. Firstly, amendments to the preamble; to the single article. Paragraph 10a; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 330]] Paragraph 43; to the single article. [[Article 567]] Paragraph 43a; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 572]] Paragraph 43b; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 574]] Paragraph 43 quater; the fourth transitional provision; and the derogating provision [[new]] [[Article 575]] [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 164 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u269	They're rejected. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph Four [[Article 230]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 196 against, 133 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u270	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph 18 [[Article 351]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 329 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u271	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph 21a; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 403]] Paragraph 25a; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 447]] Paragraph Thirty-seven ; and to the unique final disposition. [[Article 521]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 324 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u272	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph Thirty-one bis [[new]] [[Article 484]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 316 against, 17 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u273	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Subparagraph Thirty-three [[Article 489]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 241 against, 84 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u274	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph 36a; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 504]] Paragraph 36b; to the single article. [[new]] [[Article 516]] Paragraph Thirty-six quater; and the second transitional provision. [[new]] [[Article 519]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 325 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u275	They're approved. Amendments to the single article. Paragraph 46a; and the single article. [[new]] [[Article 586]] Subparagraph 49 bis [[new]] [[Article 630]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 236 against, 93 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u276	They're approved. Amendments to the third transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 315 against, 22 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u277	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u278	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, for having the same organic character. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340, plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 290, plus 2 telematics votes, 292; 31, plus 2 telematics votes, 33; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u279	Having obtained an absolute majority, it was approved. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, ON EMERGENCY MEASURES IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STATE COVENANT ON GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/00220]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary on urgent measures to implement the State Pact on Gender Violence. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 338 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u281	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u282	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, for having the same organic character. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 337 in favour, 341 in favour, 341 in favour, 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u283	Having obtained an absolute majority, the text was adopted in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on committee opinions on legislative initiatives. First of all, the draft Law Regulating Real Estate Credit Contracts. We shall begin by voting on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendment 230. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 23 against, 314 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u285	It's rejected. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment 233 from the same group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 15 against, 247 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u286	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 83 against, 247 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u287	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Firstly, we are going to vote on Amendments 138, 141, 150 and 168. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 12 against, 259 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u288	They're rejected. Amendments of the same group 148, 149, 162 and 173. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 12 against, 328.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u289	They're rejected. Amendment 153. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 19 against, 253 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u290	It's rejected. Amendment 172. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 115 against, 224 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u291	It's rejected. Amendment 174. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 24 against, 315.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u292	It's rejected. Amendment 179. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 80 against, 224 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u293	It's rejected. Amendment 181. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 88 against, 220 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u294	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 80 against, 258 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u295	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 182. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 165 against, 166 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u296	It's rejected. Amendments 190 and 206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 31 against, 231 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u297	They're rejected. Amendment 194. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 101 against, 226 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u298	It's rejected. Amendment 207. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 99 against, 238 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u299	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 31 against, 309.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u300	They're rejected. Let us now vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 81 against, 256 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u301	It's rejected. Amendments 43, 50 and 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 114 against 226.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u302	They're rejected. Amendments 61, 69 and 85. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 83 against, 248 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u303	They're rejected. Amendments 71, 77, 83 and 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 79 against, 256 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u304	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 79 against, 261.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u305	They're rejected. Amendment 100 by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 84 against, 240 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u306	It's rejected. Amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Transactional amendment No 2 to Final provision 1a [[new]] [[Article 29]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 165 against, 170 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u307	It's rejected. Private vote by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel. Particular vote No. 2 on the transactional amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Green Mortgages. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 196 against, 134 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u308	It was adopted. Private vote by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Particular vote No. 1 on the compromise amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Green Mortgages. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340; 197; 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u309	It was adopted. We shall now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the opinion, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 262 against, 77 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u310	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u311	We will then vote on committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposition of a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life. We are going to vote, first of all, on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador. Amendment 158. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 173.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u312	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments by the Joint Group, Mr Salvador. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 2 against, 207 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u313	They're rejected. [[Several guest gentlemen present in the public gallery: Don't be ashamed! Enough patches! Enough of this nonsense! Shame on you! Shame on you! Enough! Enough! With the cell phone! Unhappiness!-We launch octavels into the Chamber.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Commu Ponde-En Marea]] I beg the House's services to remove the rostrum. [[That's how the House services do it.]] Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 23 against, 314 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u314	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group Firstly, we voted on Amendments Nos 9 and 10. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 24 against, 314.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u315	They're rejected. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Amendments of the same group 11 and 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 23 against, 314 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u316	They're rejected. Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 22 against, 315 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u317	It's rejected. Amendment 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 24 against, 315.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u318	It's rejected. Private vote by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Particular vote calling for the retention of the text of Title IV, relating to infringements and sanctions, including articles 24 to 28, in the terms of the report adopted by the presentation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour 163 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u319	It's rejected. We shall vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 316 against, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u320	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANICAL LAW, AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, TO TRANSPOND DIRECTIVES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION TO FINANCIAL AND TERRORISM AREAS, AND TO ASSIST INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRY MATTERS. [[File number 122/000200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u321	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to transpose European Union directives in the financial and terrorist fields, and to address international issues. We voted on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THAT GROUP. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 82 against, 249 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u322	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 261 against, 3 abstentions, 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u323	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote as a whole. Vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to transpose directives of the European Union in the financial and terrorist fields, and to address issues of an international nature, because they are of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 260 plus 2 telematics votes, 262; 4; abstentions, 76 plus 2 telematics votes, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u325	Having obtained an absolute majority, the proposal for an organic law was approved. - PROPOSAL FOR REFORM OF THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY AUTONOMY STATUS ON THE PARTICIPATION OF VALENTIAN GENERALITY IN THE DECISIONS ON THE INVESTMENT OF THE STATE IN THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY [[PREVIOUSLY NAMED AS A PROPOSED REFORM OF THE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FIRST OF THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY AUTONOMY STATUS]] [[File number 127/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u326	Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the proposal to reform the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community as regards the participation of the Valencian Generalitat in decisions on State investment in the Valencian Community. We shall vote on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 302 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u327	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the general vote on the proposal for a reform of the autonomous status of the Valencian Community as regards the participation of the Valencian Generalitat in the decisions on State investment in the Valencian Community, formerly known as the proposal for a reform of the first additional provision of the autonomous status of the Valencian Community, because it is organic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 302 plus 4 telematics votes, 306; abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u329	Having obtained the absolute majority, the proposal to reform the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u330	We are now voting on the debates on all legislative initiatives. We will vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rules 111 and 126, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 165 plus 1 telematics vote, 166; 174 plus 3 telematics votes, 177; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u331	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-20-CD181220.u332	Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the request to extend the deadline granted to the subcommission for electoral reform set up within the Constitutional Commission for the issuance of its report until 30/06/2019. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] It's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, before we adjourn this session, I wish you all a happy holiday and a great deal of health and success for all of you and your families. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, applause is on the table.]] The meeting rose. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
