ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. We begin with the debate on taking into consideration the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, guaranteeing equality in access and promotion in public employment without discrimination on linguistic grounds. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the afternoon by talking about freedom and equality. Equality is one of those higher values for which my party has often fought in this House. We are not talking about uniformity, I am already ahead of the answer that some of you will give me. But from here we have often had to repeat that equality had been broken on some occasions and in some places in Spain. We did it when we talked about autonomous financing. It should be remembered that, for example, there are huge differences between the resources that some citizens may have in health, education or independence depending only on where they live in Spain. We also did it when we denounced the opacity of the Basque coupon. By the way, we are particularly pleased that justice will finally force the light to be shed and we can all know what these agreements are to which the bipartisanism of the People's Party and the Socialist Party with the PNV has come. [[applause]] Thanks to the fact that justice, I repeat, has forced them, it is not voluntary transparency, it is obligatory. We also did so by talking about justice when, for example, we denounced the outbursts, which turn politicians into different, different and unequal people with respect to the rest of the citizens. When I speak of strangulations, please understand strangulations such as the defense of Citizens, not as Dr. Sánchez defends them, who made a kind of joke and strangulations that did not serve for the fundamental, for political corruption. [[Applauds]] We also did it when we were talking about pardons, about the elimination of pardons, not, as it seems to be happening now, about the preparation that Dr. Sánchez's government is making for its coup partners. We also did so when we denounced so many times from here the impossibility of using Spanish or Spanish in some places in Spain; Spanish, Spanish, the official language of our country. The freedom and equality of the Spaniards is not that they are threatened, it is that directly they do not exist in some places and in some certain issues in our country. In circumstances like these, such as the current ones, we believe that we must regain the normality of that article 3 of the Constitution. Article 3, on the one hand, punishes that Spanish is the official language of the State and that, therefore, we all have a duty to know it and the right to use it, but it also recognizes the co-officiality of other languages; languages that are spoken in the autonomous communities and that are co-official, according to what their statutes say. The protection of these languages is also a matter of concern to us as a cultural heritage, and it is the duty of all of us to ensure their protection, but that coexistence, ladies and gentlemen, is from time to time disrespectful. There have been some abuses that we want to talk about today. Abuses which, for example, have caused that in the educational field in some places in our country one of these languages cannot be used, Spanish or Spanish cannot be used. It is a fact - I believe that nobody can deny it here - that Spanish, Spanish, has disappeared in places such as Catalonia, such as Balearic Islands, the Valencian Community, the Basque Country or Galicia. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Disappeared?]] I understand that it bothers them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u3	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u4	I understand you're bothering the PSOE. [[Applauds]] We have already seen how you have historically given up the competence of the portfolio of Education in Catalonia - we already see what the results are - in the Valencian Community or elsewhere, and that is how we are. We will never tire of denouncing these abuses that have occurred by the nationalists, but we think it is important to remember that they have occurred because the PSOE or the PP have contributed to this, because the Socialist Party has given in all these autonomous communities the portfolio of Education or the public media to Esquerra, to Compromís, etc., and because the People's Party - let me say it - looked elsewhere and gave up in an uncompromising way the defense of our language and, worse, you two have given up in the defense of the equality of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The law that we present today affects another of the problems that has been created in Spain, again by the nationalist push, but again also by the necessary collaboration of bipartisanism. From Citizens, because we believe in a Spain of free and equal, we want to ensure - that is what we present today - that language is not used as a source of discrimination in access and promotion in public employment. While - at least some - we are trying to break down borders outside, looking at Europe, it seems that others, behind our backs, are raising them within Spain. The Basic Statute of the Public Employee envisages the need to take care of the co-official languages in relation to the selection of employees; with our law, ladies and gentlemen, what we intend is to complete this statute, to specify the nature of this requirement and to what extent it can be established. What we want, in short, is for the knowledge of these co-official languages to be a merit - ladies and gentlemen, a merit - and to cease to be a requirement, and that this merit should also be established in a transparent manner, depending on the position or employment in question. We do this for two reasons: for equality - that is what I said at the beginning - but also to guarantee the quality of our services, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that a Spanish worker must have the same facilities to develop his career anywhere in Spain and that, thanks to the policies of the nationalists, and thanks to the PSOE and thanks to the PP, unfortunately, it is no longer so in our country. [[Applauds]] We believe that this problem, that failure of the principle of equality that prevents, for example, a worker from, let's put, Albacete can present himself in a square in Catalonia or in Baleares, must end once and for all, because when that happens, there are many professionals - it's going on, it's going on in Baleares, it's going on in Catalonia - who leave those places because they can't show up, consolidate a square or promote to get a better job and also because when that happens, those professionals we want to protect, suffer, but also suffer the citizens they stop caring for. To explain: we defend the freedom of movement of Spanish workers throughout the territory. [[Applauds]] Is there really anyone in this House who can deny this? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, will any of you deny this basic principle of freedom and equality? We do not want the best to stop coming, let us give another example, to the Valencian Community; we want the best to come to the Valencian Community, Catalonia or the Balearic Islands and then we will make things easier for them to learn that co-official language. I would like to give several examples of what has led to nationalism and what has led to the complicity of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in our country. I'm gonna start with something that's coming a long way. Look, I'm going to talk about 1985 -1985! - and a telegram that received 12,000 Spanish-speaking teachers in Catalonia, giving them a five-day time limit, ladies and gentlemen -five days! - to ask for a destination outside Catalonia; five days, a nimious time limit, a cruel time limit, a time limit in which the nationalists also falsified, made false demands for these people not to stay in Catalonia, throwing out those who refused a forced catalanization. These are the arts that used nationalism, the linguistic cleansing that was carried out. And look where all this has taken us, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of the PP, because all this, don't doubt it, is connected. The PSOE was in the community government, the PSOE was in the national government. Socialist gentlemen, you didn't move a finger to avoid it. Shame, shame! [[Applauds]] Today there are doctors who are having to leave Majorca because of the subject of linguistic immersion. Who's going to lose? Professionals, of course, but also patients. The imposition of Catalan leaves Ibiza without its only neuro-diatrician. Who's losing? She loses it, but she also loses the island's children. In my autonomous community, Compromís, with the complicity of the PSOE again, with the complicity of Podemos - which, as always, stands beside the nationalists - copies the whale formula, and soon the diaspora will begin. Soon the best of the rest of Spain will be excluded from working on our land. [[Mr Baldoví Roda speaks words that are not perceived]] Do not laugh, Mr Baldoví, you have no grace; you are laughing at them in this case. [[Applauds]] Teachers with years of experience, teachers who have been teaching our children for years will end up being fired. I see you're laughing at them. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: You're a businessman!]] They lose them, but above all they lose the Valencian children. I know what comes over me in the turn of replica, especially I expect the victimistic waste of nationalism, of the offended professionals. I expect nothing different from them, but I do hope that for once the PSOE will listen to us and the People's Party too. I ask you to be courageous, to stop acting on the dictates of the nationalists, to think carefully of these medical officials, their voters, their affiliates, Andalusians, extremists, and so forth, from any other place in Spain that you are allowing to be prevented from working in the Valencian Community, Catalonia or the Balearic Islands. How are you going to look them in the face if you vote against this today? [[Applauds]] I ask you to think about what that means and what you lose. I ask the PSOE, in short, to reflect and rectify, to think about what the O of workers means when it comes to defending all these workers, in the E of Spain by defending the freedom and equality of all Spaniards regardless of where they live. [[applause]] Anyway, the only thing we ask of both of you is courage. Don't bother, gentlemen of Podemos, when I attack the PSOE; then I will have for you too. [[Rumors.-Mr. Mayor Perales: Unhappiness!]] Look, under the People's Party government, the Spanishman ended up in Valencian schools. In many villages, in cities of the Valencian Community you cannot study practically any Spanish subject thanks to you, governing you. I ask you for courage, I ask you to rectify, to support what we bring here today. Look, I don't want victimization. Today the co-official languages enjoy excellent health. Never in the history of this country had so many people spoken Valencian, Catalan, Basque or Galician in our streets; we must be proud of it. That's why they're not gonna scare us with their victimism. I want to end a graphic example that explains well what we intend and what you want. You see, I remember a Basque citizen who quite a few years ago decided to postpone a colonoscopy because he wanted the doctor who made her speak Basque. Although this gentleman spoke perfectly Spanish, he voluntarily decided to put his health at risk so that the doctor who practiced this colonoscopy to him would speak Basque. Do not worry, gentlemen of the PNV, gentlemen of Esquerra, gentlemen of Convergència i Unió, PDeCAT - or as the three percent band is now called -, gentlemen of Bildu or gentlemen of Compromís, you can wait ten months for them to practice this colonoscopy; all we hope is that they do not force us to the rest. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u5	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Joint Parliamentary Group. In order to make use of that time or, if necessary, to establish a position, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor on behalf of that group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a very heterogeneous group and, although we will use the turn against, I will not do so. When the nationalist sentiment does not find a historical corpus or a national base... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u7	One second, Your Honor. I have made it clear to you that you have asked the Joint Group to turn against you and that the Joint Group will speak against you in the minutes you have or are setting your position. That it be clearly transcribed in the Journal of Sessions. I think that's what I said and what I'm saying again. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u8	That's right, Madam President. Thank you very much. He said that when the nationalist sentiment does not find any historical corpus or national basis to which to come to claim the difference, at least in Spain, it always comes to the language as an element of differentiation. In some cases, as in Navarra, efforts to extend the use of vascuence are not even explained or justified for strict reasons of communication: of course, when the language intends to be imposed in places where it was never spoken, when it excludes those who do not speak it or when it privileges those who do so to the detriment of others, even if these are an immense majority. Everywhere, ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism operates equally: a language is defined as its own and, by contrast, it is determined that Spanish is a foreign language; a fictitious persecutory argument is drawn up, a call is made for the normalization of its own language and, finally, it is imposed on those who want it and on those who do not. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the healthy intention of some to preserve and promote the use of a minority language becomes, by the hand of radical politicians and politicians, an unwarranted permanent advantageism only for their speakers. Thus, the language training of some ends up limiting other citizenship rights and consolidating an inequality in favour of a minority that has no reason to be. For us, Madam President, all languages are important, but your knowledge should not serve either as a barrier of employment or official access, nor as a sign of inequality, nor as an exclusive of identity, much less as a sentimental wall that separates mine - the pure, those who speak their own language - and the others - those who do not speak it, the impure. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today the most important work gap between those who can aspire to work anywhere in the world and those who cannot is not in these linguistic abilities is in the domain and knowledge of English. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the great challenge of our society in which we should all think, collaborate and act, including the public media. We do not think the initiative is wrong, it is a consideration, but of course we will present the amendments that adapt their objectives to the scrupulous respect of the naval competition framework. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u10	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Singed said that languages, languages, should not be used as bold weapons. I do not know if you have heard yourself, if you have the ability to hear yourself, because you have dedicated insults everywhere to all languages, also to Basque. I am not going to fall into the same set of provocations that you propose for the debate with the Spanishman. I can have respect for the Spanishman and love the Basque, and you don't seem to know how to love a language that's not yours, even if you're proud to be a monolingual. [[Applauds]] You were talking about colonoscopy, about some friend or someone who told you... And let me tell you that I, when I heard him, could think of nothing other than lobotomy, the lobotomy that his brain has to have to think how he thinks and say what he says. [[Applauds]] Because there are those who say that language makes us people, socializes us and makes us progress. He who has only one has a world, but he who has two or more languages knows as many worlds as languages. No one who has conscience wants to lose a single language of which he knows or knows, no one in his sound mind; no one in his sound mind would try to impose monolingualism which is what you have intended. But I already know that maybe I should exclude you from sound judgment. Perhaps this is why in recent decades efforts have been made to recognize and protect linguistic plurality through the political action of different public institutions with measures such as positive action in favour of the minority. I had many examples, and I will mention only one, that of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, signed by the Spanish State in 2001. I don't know which government or party you want to blame. It read as follows: The adoption of special measures in favour of regional or minority languages aimed at promoting equality between the speakers of those languages and the rest of the population and aimed at taking account of their particular situations shall not be considered an act of discrimination with the speakers of the most extended languages. Do you understand that this determines that positive action, what you call discrimination, is a reality that can and is allowed for official languages to compete on an equal footing, to develop on an equal footing? Do you believe in a multilingual state? Do you believe in a plural state? No, it's absolutely a lie. As such, Citizens present to us a proposal for a law that goes in the opposite direction, and under the umbrella of false equality they intend to take us or at least evoke us to times of persecution and entanglement of languages different from the Castilian. This is pure democratic involution and re-centralisation, Mr Cantó. And we say that it bears the flag of false equality because you put forward the right of people to opt for a job in the Administration who do not have it by right and birth, to choose to have the possibility to do so, to the right of speakers to express themselves in their natural language. [[Applauds]] What you do with this initiative is to pursue, as the fascist dictator, the Aragonese, the Asturian, the Galician, the Catalan or the Basque once did. Perhaps your next initiative will already be launched and call them directly dialects or vernacular languages. Moreover, that tuff to edict or to the Francoist side that has its initiative can acquire, if it can, more enhance with this than I say. Finally, as one Russian linguist, Max Weinreich, said, for many the difference between a language and a dialect is that the first has an army and a navy, and the dialect, on the contrary, is an unarmed language. If they do not want in their state, in their monarchy any language other than Spanish on an equal footing with it, they only give us more reason to create multilingual republics where you can live in Basque, Galician, Catalan, Asturian or Aragonese. Joseba Sarrionandia, a very famous writer, said that Euskara gives free Bakarra territory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u11	Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Singing, you're sick, you're sick of hate, and that's why I'm not going into your provocations. [[Applauds]] When I was a child I was sent with a scholarship to the Labor University of Alcalá de Henares. There, one day I was talking to another kid in my land, another kid, a classmate, said to me: stop talking that fucking tongue. I couldn't understand him saying that that tongue shit was the language that the person who loved me most had taught me: my mother. That day I learned, and today I have seen again, that some considered that there were first languages - yours - and second languages - mine. That day I learned, I learned but I didn't understand, that what they had taught that boy was more important than what my mother had taught me. I didn't understand why his language was more Spanish than my language. Why is your language more Spanish than mine? Or isn't it, Mr. Singing? Or isn't it? Is there no equality of languages? Citizens don't want equality in everything? Why don't you want equality in languages? Why do you want one tongue above another? This is the crux of the matter. Your proposal, Mr. Cantó, has an unbearable tuff to rancio centralism, your bill is directly inspired by the New Plant Decree, in which by just right of conquest, we were snatched from Valencians and Aragonese the furos and our language. Do you know how many cases of language discrimination have been suffered by Valencians and Valencians by some - I insist, some - public officials? Officials who not only did not know our language, but did not allow us to express ourselves in our language, who did not listen to us if we did not speak Spanish. I'll just give you one or two examples. Specialty Center Joan Llorenç, report of the consultation by the doctor who attended a patient: The patient refuses to speak in Spanish. I don't understand. He behaves in a pretentious way. He behaves arrogantly by wanting to speak the language that the Constitution protects him in order to be able to express himself in front of a public official! Like those, very many, in health, justice and security forces. Mr. Singing, you and your party act in bad faith, lie like bellacos. To win a handful of votes do not hesitate to provoke fires and generate problems where there are none. They are specialists in dirty and brown play, in ramplona politics. They came to regenerate politics and have ended up being a bad cartoon of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u14	Good afternoon; good for saying something. Mr. Singing, when I saw this item on the agenda I played a game for myself and I thought, "Who is going to defend it?" Who of Citizens will defend this initiative? I bet everything on a letter because I was sure you'd do it. I was going to ask you one thing, and that is how you could move from being president of the Committee on Culture to defending the macara issues of your Spanish nationalist group. [[Applauds]] It's one thing I can't understand. I can't understand it! I have heard you defend initiatives about the Cervantes Institute where you have spoken about everything, the independence of Catalonia, the use of Catalan and how bad we are the independenceists, but you have not spoken a single word about the Cervantes Institute. I've heard him advocate initiatives on educational issues where he didn't talk about anything about educational issues, just the use of language, independence and how bad we are. That is why I would like, since it seems that you have controlled what is happening in Catalonia, to know where there is, Mr Cantó, the impossibility of using Spanish in Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Where? Tell me. [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Now I'm telling you]] Tell me where it is impossible to use Spanish in Catalonia. Mr Cantó, Spanish is the mother tongue of 55% of Catalans. How will 55% of Catalans be denied the right to use their language in Catalonia! And how they could have been so foolish they had to wait for you to come to save them! How is that possible? [[Applauds]] Mr. Cantó, the Castilian is not discriminated against in Catalonia. You and I will never agree on these issues because you believe that Catalan is a second language and that it is good to use it if it is after the first one, which is Spanish. And we say it's okay to use both, to be able to defend both, and to speak both without any problem. This weekend you were in Valencia giving a talk with the spokesman for your political formation, Mrs Arrimadas, who said something like that citizens have the linguistic right to be able to be served in our mother tongue. Mr. Singing, my mother tongue is Catalan. If your proposal goes ahead, will I have that right guaranteed if the doctor I'm facing doesn't speak Catalan? How can I guarantee that right if you don't speak Catalan the doctor I have in front of you! [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes affirmative gestures]] Mr. Singing, the problem is that you can get angry and I quote your spokesman again. Mrs Arrimadas said: the languages have two enemies, those who want to ban them and those who want to impose them, and what nationalism does - it refers to Catalan, but I quote Spanish - is to impose a language. Tell me if what you present here is not an imposition of the Castilian against the Catalan. Tell me that. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures]] And if that's not it, tell me what it is. The Catalan has for centuries surpassed people with much more power than you and I together and has survived because it is not an artificial language, it is not an artificial construction, but it is rooted in a territory, a people and people who want it, speak it and defend it when it is and wherever it is. You were talking to me, Mr.Singtó and Mr.Savior, about false victimistic accounts. In 1924 Antonio Gaudí was arrested for speaking Catalan. We do not need to build false fictional accounts, because Catalan has been persecuted by his friends. That's his problem. President, I'll save what's missing for the replica shift. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u15	I give the floor to Mr Cantó García del Moral in the turn of reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u16	I will have to repeat some concepts, because it is obvious that linguistic immersion must be responsible for you having some difficulty in oral comprehension. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And also in the ability they have to express themselves. This is something we often see when your Education Counsellor tries to speak in Spanish and doesn't get it, or when the Speaker of the Parliament says that certain leg measures are due to the fact that he is not able to express himself in Spanish. That means that there is a real problem in teaching Spanish and that, therefore, the theses that I have defended here are real and not yours. [[Applauds]] Don't talk to me about Gaudi and 1924! I gave you an example of 1985. [[Mr. Miquel i Valentí and Mr. Baldoví Roda speak words that are not perceived.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u17	I pray silently. [[Protests]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u18	Don't talk to me about it. Get Franco out of your head, you've got him all day, you guys! [[Applauds.-Protests]] Don't talk to me about it. Let's talk about 2018. Let's talk about the people leaving the Balearics. Let's talk about the neurodiatrician who left Ibiza. Let's talk about those people who won't be able to be served in Spanish, but who don't have any real problems today to be served in Catalan. It is not the same requirement or merit that we are going to ask of a person who is handling the scalpel - and that is what we ask in this bill - that of another person who is in customer care. That's what I've said here from the beginning, but you don't want to understand it and there's no worse deaf person than the one who doesn't want to hear or the one who doesn't want to see. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr Baldoví, talking about diseases to criticize someone seems to me an insult to those who do suffer from diseases of some kind and, especially, mental illnesses. I find it very dirty on your part - you talking here and giving cleaning lessons - to use a word like that to try to disqualify a political rival. Don't talk to me about when you were little! By the way, was he already in college at Alcalá de Henares? You must be a real prodigy, Mr Baldoví, because in my time it was coming later. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: Labor.-Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u19	Quiet. Quiet. Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u20	Don't talk to me...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u21	One second, I'll give you the floor now. They know that only the person who is in use of it and the rest of its members can take the floor when they speak. I went on, Mr. Cantó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u22	We are told of imposition by those who are imposing in Catalonia, in the Valencian Community, in Galicia and in the Basque Country. Those are the ones who come up here and talk to us and tell us that we want to impose something, when we are only defending equality and freedom of choice between two co-official languages that must respect each other. I could set personal examples. I could explain how rolling a series in Barcelona we had to fire a Catalan girl because she was unable to improvise in Spanish. We had to fire her. We are defending that all those who want to be able to study in Spanish or to handle themselves in Spanish, but you know what? In the background we are also defending that all Catalan students do not stop working in the rest of Spain, as it can happen soon, because they do not manage or know how to speak Spanish, as happens to their education counselor or to the president of the Parliament. [[Applauds]] Are you guys really talking about uniformity? I had to put up with a language commissioner on TV3 who didn't let me bend the Catalan to me in a series in which I worked in Spanish because he told me I had Valencian accent. Are you going to talk to me about uniformity? Can you imagine what would happen if Spanish Television told someone to clean up their Andalusian accent or Basque accent? Can you imagine the one that would ride? Well, then, Mr de Compromís, shortly at Canal Nou, in telecomromís now - with all Compromís occupying all the posts on that television - they also put me not to know how many linguistic commissioners, because after that year of living in Catalonia and making an effort to bend the Catalan, they told me that I had Catalan accent, and that, of course, in Valencia I could not cure either. And I was hoping that it would be my turn to race in Tarragona, in the middle, so that all of you would leave me alone, to work in freedom! [[Applauds]] The uniforms are you; the ones that impose it are you. And I'm finishing, because I have little time left, but, really, I don't want to miss the opportunity to say that, in any case, I deny the greatest; this doesn't lobotomize anyone, this is freedom of choice; this is freedom and this is equality; but, of course, if there is anyone responsible in this country for lobotomizing with shots in the back of the neck are the etarras and their defenders from Bildu. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u23	Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u24	Mr. Singing, you forgot to answer me. Where is Spanish discrimination in Catalonia? [[Rumors]] No, he seemed like a survivor when you were here, but from here he forgot to answer me. Where? Where? [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: In the schools of Catalonia]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u25	Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u26	In the schools of Catalonia; you have stepped many schools in Catalonia, you are noticed, you are noticed, hence your Catalan or Valencian accent. [[Applauds]] Mr. Cantó, there is no education counselor in Catalonia. I don't know the problem you have with watching TV; it's just like watching TV shows that aren't timely, but there's no education counselor. I don't know who speaks bad Spanish in Catalonia, but we have a counselor d'Ensenyament, d'éducació, who is Mr Bargalló and we don't have a counselor d'éducació. I say this because it was also your neighbor who spoke badly Spanish and you have confused her with the Councillor of Education of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mr. Singing, it's just that you didn't answer me, so it's like repeating what I said to you before because you haven't answered me. I'll make you some notes. They say, "Get Franco out of your head." I, Franco, get him out of the Valley of the Fallen and you don't. That's the difference between you and me. I didn't live Franco, I didn't defend Franco. Just like you should get it out of him, you must have tattooed it in your ass. Otherwise, Mr Cantó, I do not understand your way of doing politics, your way of defending the plurality and linguistic wealth that Spain has. Because there is political wealth in Spain and linguistics to put it in value, and you have not. His initiative here carries any kind of political and linguistic wealth in Spain, because that is what they come to defend. You are part, you are at the top of a gear of Spanish nationalism that has come here to destroy, to create confrontation where there was no it, because there is no linguistic confrontation in Catalonia, there was no linguistic confrontation in Catalonia until you have invented it; there was no confrontation in Catalonia with the yellow ties until you have invented it, because you have come here to generate chryspation, that is what you drink and that is what you have come to do. [[Applauds]] Because when asked about specific cases, I get a colonoscopy from your friend; and when I ask you for a specific case, you tell me that in 1985 I don't know what happened; and I tell you, where is linguistic discrimination in Catalonia in 2018? Come on, no, say it! Come on, say it, say it! [[Protests.- Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u28	Say it, because there is no linguistic discrimination in Catalonia, and if there is, get out here and report it. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] No, no, for imagine that I live in Catalonia and there is no linguistic discrimination as I flip with you! I'm so freaked out! Where is linguistic discrimination in Catalonia? Say it, say it. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Where is it? Where is linguistic discrimination in Catalonia? Say it! [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: The freedom to speak Spanish]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u29	One second, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] I beg you, Your Honor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone, everyone, everyone and everyone, to maintain minimum forms and control of what we say, preserving above all the fact that it is the person who is speaking that has the floor. When you come up to this rostrum, you have the floor, each and every one of you, and I ask you that the language we use in the House be the language that belongs to your lordships. I earnestly implore each and every one of you. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u30	Thank you, President. I am going to do something new - I have never done it before, but I am going to do it today - which is to highlight the Spanish Constitution - see how the issue is -, which in its article 3 - because you have cited article 3 of the Constitution without going too far - says something like this as well as that the other Spanish languages will also be official in the respective autonomous communities, according to their statutes. And now I'm going to do something that you say you do often but never do, that is to defend the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which in article 33, point 4, says: To guarantee the right of linguistic choice, the State Administration located in Catalonia must believe that the staff at your service have an adequate and sufficient level of knowledge of the two official languages that make it suitable to perform their work duties. My question again is: In a law proposal like yours, for which it is not necessary to know Catalan to work in Catalonia, how do you guarantee that? What do you mean, no? But have you read what you have presented? Have you read it to him? [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures]] [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: You haven't read it. You don't have a reading understanding.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u31	Mr. Sing! Mr. Sing! Mr. Singing, I call you to order. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: You have questioned me]] Mr Cantó, I call you to order for the second time and announce that I can expel you from the Chamber. [[Applauds]] Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u32	We can discuss it outside if they end up throwing it away. [[Mr. Girauta Vidal utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u33	Mr. Spokesman, you don't have the floor. Mr. Miquel and Valenti, you have nineteen seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u34	Thank you, President, that's what we're on. Don't be nervous, Mr. Girauta, that I haven't insulted anyone or called anyone sick. Don't worry. Mr Cantó, I want you to tell me where there is that discrimination; to tell me how your proposal for a law fits with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and the Spanish Constitution, above all to understand what you have come to defend here and whether you have really come to defend a wonderful project of state linguistic wealth as you have proposed to us. Thank you very much, President, for your patience. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u35	At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u36	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the motion for a law that Mr Cantó has defended today, the truth is that he would never have thought that this rostrum would have someone who prioritized ignorance to knowledge, which is what this proposal of a law does, to say that it has to have more value the one who knows the least before the one who knows the most. [[Applauds]] The problem with colonoscopy is that I already tell you that it is another, that there are people who besides doing the colonoscopy that that doctor knows euskera or knows Catalan as well. Therefore, the problem is that instead of knowing the language you should know you only know how to do colonoscopy. Here it seems that the dichotomy is always that technically formed before which it is also formed linguistically, and fortunately we have fantastic doctors, fantastic teachers, fantastic professionals who, in addition to knowing what they know, know the language they have to speak in the country or in the nation where they are: in Basque, Catalonia, Galicia or anywhere else. That's the point, because what they're worried about is that there are people who know other languages. Yeah, that's what you guys are up to at the end. They have the perversion that those who speak certain languages also think differently. Yes, that's the problem, Mr. Singing, the way you think about it. I will say this quite clearly - because I read what I was saying -: José Antonio Primo de Rivera would be delighted to see his political project reincarnated with things like those said here today. [[Applauds]] And if not, read what he said. This is a stifling but real case of the exaltation of ignorance: on the one hand, it is an ignorance related to the cultural because it is, as we said, ignorance, but also ignorance because of ignorance of the laws and judgments of the courts, because it seems that they have ignored not only what the laws of the Basque Country or Catalonia say, but also the Constitution itself or the judgments that the Constitutional Court has in matters related to which you have said. Or do you think it comes here ex novo and that this has never happened? I can quote the judgement of the Constitutional Court 31/2010, the judgement of the Constitutional Court 82/1986, Law 39/2015 or the Basque Law, which, in the case of Euskadi, for example, says precisely that which you are saying happens but in reverse. The defence of linguistic rights - and we have detailed this here more than once - whose is it? If I go to the DNI office and the national police that looks after me don't know Basque, who speaks in another language? Me. Who speaks Spanish? Me. Therefore, the language rights of a person oblige the Administration to treat that person in its language, so that the Administration has an obligation to make its resources available so that the language rights of the applicant in the co-official language can be met. That is the reality you want to obviate. It seems that the rights only have Spanish or Spanish speakers and the others, no. How will knowledge of Catalan, Basque or Galician not be a requirement for certain professions in Euskadi or Catalonia? Of course I do. Besides, from here we're going to say if a pediatrician in Azpeitia has to know the Basque or not? Or a teacher in Barakaldo? Who are we to say it? There is competition, there are laws, there are bodies that are able to legislate on this matter. You come here with your uniforming phobia to present this bill with a clear incendiary purpose, in which you are truly very professional. This is a situation which has also been peacefully regulated and resolved by various European bodies, even because you also want to jump to those who have already told you, to the Council of Europe itself, with your European Charter of Regional Languages; it doesn't matter, you already know the objective you have. In addition, they consider that electorally this will give them value. I have very little time left, but I would have many more things to say, and not only from an ideological perspective: I can repeat sentences that say that these kinds of requirements do not go against either the Constitution or the linguistic rights that are granted; and, if not, read the sentences I have told you and you will surely realize that what I am telling you is so. Ignorance is bold and the approach they make from discrimination at the fourth point is unthinkable, it is unthinkable how one wants to prioritize, as I said, that something is not known. They skip everything: the competition field, the capacity that autonomous communities have to legislate on their subjects, etc. And don't forget that it's about who doesn't know, not who knows. Finally, I will quote a poem by Gabriel Aresti dedicated to Tomás Meabe. Tomás Meabe was the founder of the Socialist Youth. And he said in the end Aresti: Close your eyes very soft, Meabe, tab against tab, which is only Spanish who knows the four languages of Spain. I, as I only know two, for something I am not, but it seems that in this was confused Aresti. It's only Spanish who knows a Spanish language. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u37	For the Republican Left Group, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u38	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u39	Mr. Tardà, one second. You know that I come from an autonomous community also historical and that I am the first to defend the value of the co-official languages, but this is the House of Representatives of all the Spaniards and I think it is our duty to express ourselves in the language in which all the Spaniards understand us because it is true that it is good to know all the co-official languages of our country, but it is good to express ourselves in Spanish, which is the language of all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u40	Mr. Singing, where is equality? The members of your party in the Valencian Courts can speak Spanish and no one prevents it. Moreover, it would be an aberration for someone to impose on them in the Valencian Courts the use of the Valencian. On the other hand, here today, in 2018, at the heart of democracy, in the palace of freedoms, it has again been demonstrated that it is not possible, which means that Spanish democracy suffers in this area, also in others, from modernity. [[applause]] Look, I'm talking about modernity. In fact, I have tried to explain to you in the Catalan language that Belgium is synonymous with modernity, since even in the Councils of Ministers the Walloon and Flemish ministers use simultaneous translation, not because they do not know many of them the language of the other, but so that it is fixed before the citizenship that exists above all the need to visualize respect for all languages. In Switzerland, the Romanian language, with 35 000 speakers, has the same status as the major official languages of the Swiss Confederation. Canada is freedom, culture and modernity. Canada is an immense territory. For in far distant lands of Quebec the French language is as official as the English language. Something similar would be if the Galician language was also official in Seville. See if we are light years away from this example of modernity, respect and freedom. Something's going on. Maybe it's because there's a historical weight? True, there is a linguistic supremacy for which the current Spanish citizens are not responsible, of course they are not responsible. It is true that you are trying to stir up this fire. It is the weight of history that it does is to consecrate a great lie. Remember those words of the head of state, Juan Carlos I, who said: The Castilian was never a language of imposition. And then some Castilian scholar reminded him of the story. And since the Bourbons of culture have never been left over, Juan Carlos himself was forced to nuance, since it is evident that the Spanish language has been used historically, even perverting the desire for freedom of the Castilian people, as a language of imposition. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] So we point to the concept of modernity, culture, respect and freedom. And Spain today is still different. There is a single language in the General Administration of the State, a single language in the constitutional organs; by the way, constitutional organs also paid for by those citizens of the current Spanish State who use subaltern, minority and despised languages. Do you know why I say despised? Because the Basque language, the Catalan language and the Galician language are languages which, even though the Spanish State had profoundly changed its position through a law of languages that guaranteed equality, despite everything, are three languages that have it very difficult to face the challenges of the 21st century. Indeed, the Catalan language, the Galician language and the Basque language have a very difficult challenge before them, which is how these minority languages remain competitive - since this is the term used today in the field of sociolinguistics - in the 21st century. So I remind you of the following. If you could not for forty years the fascists, you will not achieve it in democracy. First of all, because you are not fascists, with which from democratic positions you have it very badly in order to be able to put an end to the minority languages, even though your position will certainly cause us to suffer. And secondly, how is it possible that there are so many Catalans who legitimately vote for Citizens, how is it possible that citizens who vote for their political party, are not permanently mobilized in order and effect of ending the yoke that, in your opinion, is linguistic immersion? Do you know what the answer is? I tell you, I also have friends who vote for Citizens: Because they are proud of the Catalan educational system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u41	Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u42	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mr Cantó, Spain has for many years been the most plural territory in the linguistic field of Europe. We have always been a culturally rich country, a land of welcome and a cross of civilizations that has resisted the historic uniforming desires of which you are the heirs. This is the country of Gloria Fuertes and Miguel Hernández, Martí i Pol and Mercè Rodoreda, Rosalía de Castro and Curros Enríquez, Leizarraga and Etxepare, Vanessa Gutiérrez and Berta Piñán. And it is also, lords of Citizens, the country where my uncles, who arrived from Andalusia to live in the cave-houses of Sant Oleguer de Sabadell, defend today the multilingualism of the State. [[Applauds]] That is, Mr. Singing, the wealth of our country that you do not understand. You, with this proposal, want to turn Spain into the Vetusta de La Regenta, that heroic city that sleeps the nap and that makes the digestion of the cooked and the rotten pot. And it is that until you were born there was no language conflict and now, after burning and straining the political situation in Catalonia, you are dedicated to exporting that division to the whole state. You don't care about burning land policy as long as it involves political or electoral revenue for you. They have brought to this rostrum education, indoctrination, symbols, hymns, state security forces, and they lacked language. That's right, you always take out your deputy fake, the one who comes here to throw bubbles, the one who has no scruples to tell lies from this rostrum. A few days ago you went with Mrs. Arrimadas to Baleares, to malmeter against the language of the Illes. You reminded me of the Claires and Frank Underwoods of House of Cards, who do like sharks: they attack when they smell the blood. As in this case there was no wound, you have gone to create it so that you could then smell the blood that would allow you to attack. You're short on pyromaniac firemen. Do you know, Mr. Singing, what you're throwing at the doctors in Balears? The price of housing, precarious work and the free market, not the language. [[Applauds]] Don't come and tell lies. This proposal for a citizens' law seeks that what has been working in Catalonia for more than thirty years ceases to work, thus reducing the rights of citizens and attacking, whatever is said, the common sense. Because you intentionally misapproach. Look, the right of the Administration is not the right of the Administration to express itself in the language that the Administration wants; the right of the citizen to decide in which language it is addressed to the Administration. [[Applauds]] And in order for the citizen to decide that, the official must know both languages as a requirement, not as a merit. In my opinion, all of this does not matter to you very much; what you are trying to do is to increase the climate of tension by creating conflicts that do not exist. The only thing they seek is the holder, so they bring us a proposal of law, let me tell you, badly done: invades competences, does not respect the Constitution, skips the statutes of autonomy. It seems that the person who has made this law to him is the same one who makes Mr. Rivera's résumé, who is losing doctorates and master's degrees in the style of... [[applause]] [[Rumors]] Yes, because Mr. Rivera in his résumé is losing doctorates and masters like Benjamin Button's curious case, he's going backwards. [[Laughter]] You claim to defend equality but your balance always ends up falling on the same side, the side of the annihilation of the plurilingual reality of the State. You don't fool us anymore. They were born in Catalonia - by the way, by the hand of Mr Arcadi Espada, that gentleman who uses the media to throw homophobic insults to democratically elected deputies in a zafia way - and they were born to end the linguistic plurality of the state, but they have not succeeded. [[applause]] Mr Cantó, I will truly believe that you are fighting for the linguistic rights of the speakers when you defend, for example, that Catalan can be spoken from this rostrum, when you defend, for example, that Galician can regain its use among the younger population, when you advocate that Basque be promoted in the media, or when you accompany us by calling for the Asturian to be an official language in Asturias. [[applause]] [[applause]] [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Then I'll start believing them. As you, Mr Cantó, do not and will never do, all we have to do is denounce your political cynicism and your irresponsible will to use the language as an instrument of political confrontation. Leave it now, really, Mr. Singing, leave it now. There are two ways of doing politics: solving people's problems, which is one, or using those same problems to generate conflict, confrontation and tension, and you are installed in the second. I'm going to tell you one thing, and I'm going to tell you honestly: if politics is no good for improving people's lives, then it's no good for nothing, and you're starting to be no good for nothing. [[Applauds]] You are very eager and eager to govern Spain and I say to you, Mr Cantó, that Spain cannot be governed by having phobia to Catalan, Spain cannot be governed by phobia to the linguistic plurality of Spain. [[Applauds]] Lord Sing - and I finish - stop being the Holy Inquisition of tongues, stop acting like hate hooligans and start doing politics to improve people's lives; stop banning, banning and banning. I said - I finish, president - Ovidi Montllor: There are people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought in Catalan; they are the same people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought. [[Applauds]] For that, stop forbidding, Mr.Singing; stop banning and allow people to speak, write and think in the language that pleases them. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u44	Thank you, President. This initiative aims to change the rules of play, Mr. Singing. Lords of Citizens, they intend to violate the Constitution and it is that a holder is not worth everything; read article 3 of their initiative. Look, this proposed law alters not only article 3 of the Constitution but also the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and also alters the normal functioning of public administrations with regard to citizenship, with regard to citizens. That is why this group is not going to support it, first of all, because it intentionally does not know not only the constitutional legal system in relation to co-official languages, but also the reality of this country. But listening to Mr Cantó, I have to add that he does not only know the Constitution or the legal system or the sentences of the Constitution, he does not know his own initiative. [[Applauds]] Señor Cantó, read it, read it. You artificially build a reality, your reality, making you believe that discrimination is taking place in access to public employment when this is not the case, and that is what the Constitution and the Constitutional Court are for. Sir Singed, read a little more. Lords of Citizens, we deny you the greatest. As I told you, the Constitution, the regulations, the Constitutional Court, the development of the rules, are all guarantees. The Constitution recognizes the obligation to know and the right of citizens to use Spanish, as well as the rest of the co-official languages, as set out in article 3.2. Señor Cantó, I will point out to you only one sentence - I do not tell you as much as the spokesman of the PNV -, the judgment 165/2013 which contains all this doctrine. And so it says - a small parenthesis -: The requirement of knowledge of the language that is official in the territory where the Administration to which it aspires to serve acts is perfectly includeable within the required merits and capabilities. That's what the Constitution says. Mr Cantó, you have said that language is a merit, according to your initiative. It's not true, it's not lying. It's just that they're also trying to obviate it. Have you read Articles 3 and 4 of your initiative? I don't think so. Citizens, do you really understand the reality of this country as expressed today by your spokesman? I don't think so. Mr Cantó does not know the reality of this country nor does he intend to know it. You seek the imposition of one language upon the other. The reality of our country is not a competition between autonomous communities or between languages; it is, in any case, a country in which they must be allowed to share; moreover, it is necessary to strengthen those who are weaker, but not by partisan acronyms, but for the sake of citizenship. And what you are doing is a deliberately opportunistic mistake. Citizens' Lords, equality is not uniformity, they say so on their own initiative. The curious thing is that then, in the next sentence, they contradict each other; we are already used to it. They show a great ignorance of our reality. Its initiative runs counter to the very essence of the configuration of the Spanish autonomous state and runs counter to the relations between the citizenry and the Administration of Justice. I insist, read judgment 165/2013. And I ask you, are you really trying to impose one language on the other? Are you trying to restrict the freedom of citizens in their relationship with the public administration? [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures]] Gentlemen of Citizens, the Constitutional Court has made this clear and I refer to it. Therefore, approving the consideration of this initiative would mean breaking the access of citizens to public administrations on an equal footing, which you say we charge ourselves with. No; it is burdened by its initiative; its initiative is burdened by the equality of conditions and the freedom of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative deliberately violates and ignores the powers of the autonomous community. The Constitutional Court has stated this by stating that including language as a capacity must be managed and legislated by the autonomous community. It is true that article 149.1.1a of the Constitution states that the State may regulate in a generalistic manner, but under no circumstances does it allow it to regulate in a general manner the co-officiality of Spanish languages other than Spanish. You call yourselves constitutionalists, but if you're asking for the Constitution through the back door! What are they telling me! Señor Cantó, read article 3. To define the knowledge of the official language as merit or as a requirement corresponds in any case to the Autonomous Communities. You create a problem where there isn't. The normal thing is the coexistence and coexistence of both languages without problem, also in the relations between citizenship and public administrations. In my house we speak Catalan and Spanish indistinctly. My parents and I spoke Spanish. Excuse me, Mr Cantó, if I explain something anecdotal to you, but it is my personal reality and that of many Catalans and Spaniards, and you ignore it. Our country is multilingual and for socialists the recognition of the existence of autonomous rules that specifically regulate the use of language has to be guaranteed, as well as the strengthening of the use of languages by citizens. This is basic. It is constitutionally lawful to require a certain level of knowledge of the Catalan, Basque or Galician language, given the co-official nature of these languages. With this initiative, Citizens, you do not want to guarantee equality, you want to confront, and more than one spokesman has said it in this rostrum. But it's already at your cenit - and I recommend you to read that article again, Mr.Singing, which I think you haven't read - when they say that what public administrations have to do is circumvent the guarantee that is constitutionally established. They're asking for the Constitution, haven't you seen it? [[Applauds]] Read it, read it. Mr. Singed, to you, who spoke of anecdotes and personal experiences, I will tell you that I am a lawyer of profession and a few years ago I was in a trial acting ex officio. Do you know when I realized how the quality of public service delivery was improved? When naturally, with total normality, I started talking to the witness victim in Catalan. At that time I realized that the citizen could express himself as he wanted, I was able to exercise my profession more effectively and the court was able to know exactly what was going on in that trial. That is the reality of Spain, that is the reality of Catalonia and, obviously, of the Basque Country and Galicia. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would withdraw this initiative because it violates the Constitution, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the basic rules of coexistence, Mr Cantó. Look - and I finish, President -, Spain is quite the opposite of a monolingual country, it is actually a mosaic of languages and dialectal variants, which are not linguistic modalities, as you insult in this initiative. It is a multilingual country, socio-linguistic reality attests to it, science certifies it and the legal system collects it. Spanish multilingualism is both a cultural heritage to be preserved and a source of individual and collective opportunities to be developed, obviously by the citizenry. Mr. Singing, linguistic diversity and multilingualism makes us more free, more cult and more equal to all, even if you weigh it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u45	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Cantó, my group is in favour of voting in favour of this initiative, although you have not made it easy for us. [[Laughter]] In that heat it has come to say that the Castilian has disappeared from Galicia. [[Rumors]] No, what has disappeared from Galicia is Citizens. [[Laughter and applause]] Therefore, I ask you, Mr Cantó, the humility - I repeat, humility - that we all need to reach agreements with everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u48	In that speech in which you seem to have inaugurated the defence of linguistic rights in Spain you have defended an initiative, this one, which is based on a reasoned and reasonable judgment of the Constitutional Court to which you have referred everyone. [[shows a document]] This I show is your initiative, yours, Mr. Singing. The sentence is of 26 September 2013 before an agreement of the Parliament of Balearics approved by the People's Party in solitary by which we derogated from the language decree imposed by the Socialist Party and the nationalists when they ruled with Antich in Balearics. We suppressed it. I want to tell you this, Mr Cantó, because we were already defending freedom of education and the removal of language barriers when you had zero Members in this House, and we will continue to do so if you once again have zero Members in this House. [[Applauds]] Therefore, his initiative, which is this, is nourished, rests, on the lonely facts of popular governments. [[reshow the document]] I remind you: we abolished the language decree that established barriers to entry into the Public Service in Balearic Islands; it was resorted to by fifty senators of the Socialist Party and we won. And that's what you're talking about. It has now been reimposed. But I ask you for humility in your speeches because I have also listened to you - I have taken it literally -: The Castilian in the Valencian Community is over. I sleep there. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: In Castellón, in his province]] Yes, my province. May I speak to myself? I'm the one who sleeps in Castellón, Mr. Singing; you don't. [[Laughter and applause]] This morning I got up in Segorbe, my children went to school. In my village, in Segorbe, there are three schools, the three have their lines, as we have chosen the parents, all in Spanish, but they have them for two reasons: first, because the People's Party allowed us in the 142 monolingual municipalities in Spanish to continue to educate our children in Spanish and, second, because when those who govern the Council imposed a linguistic decree by which my son, who is fifteen years old, to keep the seven hours in English imposed sixteen in Valencian, we alone, the People's Party, appealed and won. I'm telling you because I've heard you say that the PSOE and the PP were looking the other way. No, no, in my community, where I live, where I sleep, that educational imposition has already been ultimately, in the Supreme, annulled by the resources of the People's Party while Citizens, in fact, looked elsewhere. [[Applauds]] We did it and we did it in the Valencian Community with the decree of linguistic blackmail by which my son, by choosing Castilian, was removed the title of English and we won that judicial battle. We have also won the judicial battle of the decree on the use of languages in the Administration, which imposed a single language also for communications, for notifications, even for verbal conversations among officials. We won that battle. And we are giving the judicial battle, because Isabel Bonig so wants, to prevent the linguistic police in the Valencian Community from sanctioning even private conversations. And that whole dozen lawsuits have been carried out by the People's Party in the Valencian Community alone, while you were fighting and dividing your group. Therefore, I ask you for humility. I mean, this wasn't born with you, and with you, whether or not you are in the future, it won't end either. It hurts my group to have read this summer, as other cases quoted, how that four-year-old autistic girl, Carla, ran out of her doctor because of the imposition of language requirements in Catalan on doctors, health care workers, nurses, in Balearic Islands. It is a wrong imposition by the Socialist Party and the nationalists that we in their day eliminated and that they have returned. Therefore, it seems to me good, how bad it will seem to us to avoid that 1100 health workers have been excluded not because they are bad doctors or bad nurses but because they do not believe a sufficient level of Catalan, of course. That's why when we did it, when we repealed that rule, there were those who took us to court and happily won. It is absolutely unfair that 89% of radiotherapy health workers have been excluded - 89% - not because they do not know about radiotherapy, but because they do not believe a sufficient linguistic profile. We are in favour of protecting, promoting the use of all languages, as stated in the Constitution, and we are prepared to debate and we will vote yes to this initiative, landing it, bearing in mind that they also have the right to speak their own languages, their own languages all over the world and, therefore, we must be able to reconcile. It is not the same as a surgeon's post as one of attention to the public and, therefore, in that landing, in that conciliation, in that coexistence of Constitution and statutes of autonomy is where, with the humility that - let me say - has been lacking, we must agree that in Spain, trade barriers, linguistics and all kinds of barriers continue to be removed, and that with rules like this the Spaniards can come out closer together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u49	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 of 24 July 2015 approving the revised text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products. [[File number 122/00205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u50	We continue with the item on the agenda regarding the consideration of the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 of 24 July, approving the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Sanitary Devices. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen here, very good afternoon. I am sure that the debate on this law proposed today by the Navarro People's Union will not have the tone we have had in the previous proposal. Moreover, it is a law that comes very well today to debate in this Congress for two reasons: one, because today is precisely World Pharmaceutical Day and, two, because it has just been published that a molecule has been discovered at the Autonomous University of Barcelona between 14,000 that reverses the effects of neurodegenerative diseases, especially Alzheimer's and other dementias. Therefore, today is a good day to bring this proposal of law that wants to amend the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Sanitary Devices. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of this proposal for a law on the Navarro People's Union? It is very simple: to open an in-depth debate on the desirability and the necessary balance between, on the one hand, branded medicines, reference medicines, and, on the other hand, generic medicines and especially limited to the National Health System. I encourage all political forces and parliamentary groups in this House to take this law into consideration and to listen openly in the parliamentary process to the professionals of the pharmacy offices, to listen openly to the patients - let us focus on the patients -, to listen to the opinion of medical professionals, doctors, nurses and assistants, and, of course, to listen openly to the brand pharmaceutical industry, the innovators, and also, without a doubt, to the generic pharmaceutical industry. What do we want with this bill? First of all, what we are looking for is something that is out of the question, but I would like to emphasize it: ensuring the quality, safety and effectiveness of pharmaceutical products. I'd miss more! Secondly, give stability and seek the necessary balance, and let no one understand this proposal of law, ladies and gentlemen, how to benefit one against another or vice versa, at all, all are necessary and all must live together. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to achieve continuous innovation and research in this pharmaceutical sector to cure diseases through the search, in this case, for new active substances. And let no one understand that this is against, as some parliamentary group has said, the biosimilars, absolutely nothing to see. And above all, as politicians, as public representatives who we are and with a certain vision for the future, we want the sustainability of our country's National Health System. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that public pharmaceutical expenditure accounts for 15% of all health expenditure in our country. Why do we bring this bill before we listen to your interventions? Ladies and gentlemen, for two reasons: firstly, because the sale of generics is falling in Spain when in countries similar to the European Union, of our closest environment, similar in characteristics to our country, precisely go up and, secondly - and also related to that fall - how can we not say, ladies and gentlemen, because in countries such as England, France, Germany or Italy of every 100 medicines dispensed 65% belong to the family of generics when in Spain it is not even 40%. As far as units are concerned, but as far as percentages of values are concerned, we are talking about 25% in the European Union and in Spain we are not reaching 20%. What could be the causes? Allow me to advance some of them. One of them could perfectly be a bad intention to question the bioequivalence of generics against brand-name medicines and the other, and here we have much to say, ladies and gentlemen, are the successive regulatory changes that have been made in this House, as I will now quote. In any case, what I would like is for the political groups, especially those that supported the central executives in the past, to feel that this proposed law amending Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 is no amendment to the whole decision that was made and validated in this House. While it is true that the pharmaceutical sector must be highly regulated, we cannot turn our legislative initiatives into a risk to the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in just five years, from 2010 to 2015, four royal decree-laws were legislated that changed the circumstances and situation of medicines in our country, especially generic medicines: firstly, Royal Decree Law 4/2010, which reduced the price of generic medicines by 25%; secondly, Royal Decree Law 9/2011, which approved the prescription by active principle - to see if we get it definitively - and the dispensation of the lowest price and eliminated the positive discrimination of generic medicines, the EFGs; thirdly, in 2012, Royal Decree Law 16/2012, with which it returned to positive discrimination; and finally, Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, which eliminates such discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, in essence this initiative wants to remedy this fall when, as I said before, Europe is rising. They're going to allow me to value with some figures what the generic pharmaceutical sector in our country is all about. In just 20 years, since 1997, when the first generic was launched on the market, the National Health System has saved 21 billion euros, not to mention savings for patients. In addition, as regards the contribution to the gross domestic product, the generic pharmaceutical sector is currently providing more than 9,000 direct and 25,000 indirect jobs. These are figures that come from the Spanish Association of Generic Medicines, Aeseg, which I want to thank for your presence here today and also other members of this generic industry. Ladies and gentlemen, of every ten generics consumed in Spain, seven are produced in our country, and this sector also contributes tremendously to the international export market. I will give you an example so that we are aware of the regulatory effect that generic medicine has on prices. I insist that this is not against the brand - at all, you must live with it - but I want to set an example for you to understand. In 2002 the cost of treatment per day with Omeprazole was 1.1 euros; today it is 9 cents. Therefore, sixteen years ago, one person was treated and today, twelve people are treated at the same cost per day. Finally, I would like to stress that generic medicines have the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substances and the same pharmaceutical form and their bioequivalence with the reference medicine has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies, as reflected in Article 2 of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015. Its bioequivalence has been demonstrated, so that, once administered, it reaches the same concentrations and has the same efficiency profile as brand-name medicines, innovative or reference medicines. That is why we are proposing two major changes. I insist that they may not be the best, but we want to open the debate, that you amend and that we agree. We want to open the debate for the good of the pharmaceutical sector, for the good of the National Health System and, after all, for the good of the patients. Firstly, we propose to change three articles - 87, 89 and 98 - of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 which I mentioned, because we want to establish that the prescription is actually carried out as an active principle, so that the pharmacist must dispense the lowest priced drug from his homogeneous grouping, and in case of equal priced, the generic medicine; a priority of the generic before the branding on equal prices that would also apply to the power of the pharmacist to replace the prescribed drug to a patient if it has a price higher than that of his homogeneous grouping, in this case changing it for another cheaper for the sake of the economy - also that of the patients - and when there are problems of lack of supply of the prescribed drug and it can be replaced. Secondly, the proposal by the Navarro People's Union states that authorised medicinal products will not be included in the already existing packages in the reference system, nor will they be able to form new packages until one year - twelve months - after their inclusion in the National Health System, unless their holders voluntarily decide to lower their price to the reference level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we want to take into account this proposal for a law, to open a debate, to amend the text and to seek - as I said - broad consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u52	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u53	Thank you, Madam President. I hope that this debate will be much calmer. Since we're talking about drugs, I hope we don't have to take any tranquilizers in order to hang ourselves. [[The Lord]] Today, the proposal that Union del Pueblo Navarro makes with this amendment, through the proposal of law, seeks - as its own spokesman has expressed it - in some way to implement, implement and guarantee the use of generic medicines almost, almost as a kind of general rule. Obviously, my group - and this has been shown both here and here in Euskadi and in its Government too - has made a very clear bet on the use of generic and on the active substance, let us say the indication, on the prescription. In that regard, we share the basic criterion set out in this bill. I'll give you an example of that. There is an agreement by the Basque Government that it says: in the area of generic medicines, substitutions and reference prices, as well as a new impetus for active principle dispensation in a context characterized by the need to introduce saving measures on pharmaceutical expenditure by the public health system, all without diminishing the quality of health care provided to citizens. The prescription by active principle and the dispensation of generics are two fundamental axes of the Basque health system in order to promote savings policies in the public health system that the signing parties of the pharmaceutical concert are determined to promote and develop: the Department of Health, official schools of pharmacists and business associations of pharmacists. It is also true that we, as a parliamentary group and as a political party, in our electoral programme clearly established our commitment to this, when we said that we had to develop strategies for the rational use of the medicine and prescription by active principle, maintaining the consumption of generics at European levels and enhancing the use of biosimilar medicines, thus guaranteeing the pharmaceutical treatments of all Basque citizens. All this makes our position clear. Now, the question we ask ourselves is: Is this the best way for us to address the issue of generics at this headquarters? Do we not think, perhaps, that we have started on the roof, amending a number of specific issues in an existing law to then develop a debate, as the spokesman for the Navarro People's Union has raised? Wouldn't it be better if we had a wide-ranging debate with all the prescribers who might have an opinion on the subject, a presentation, an opening of doors with all the parties involved? Because, let's not close our eyes, here are many parties involved; there are the autonomous communities - which are the ones that have the capacity in health matters to manage -, there are the users, we are the parliamentary groups, but there is also the pharmaceutical industry, both that manufactures generics and those that manufacture concrete brands. I believe that this requires a calm and wide-ranging debate, and while it may be with the modifications that the UPN party is making, I do not think it is the best way to tackle the issue. Without a doubt, we believe that the debate on generics, however important it may be, as the proposer himself has proposed, requires a number of other issues. Furthermore, not all of the changes proposed by the initiative convince us at all. There is one that I believe should be studied by the parties that are going to be most attached to the matter. For example, the approach taken in point 4 has a significant economic cost and it is the autonomous communities that have to cling to this change and will therefore have to be heard minimally. We therefore believe that this is a necessary, fundamental thing. There is no doubt that the thrust of generic medicines is and must be something that we maintain not only from a philosophical but also a political point of view, but perhaps the best way to put it is not through the modifications that this bill contains. My group is therefore not going to oppose this, but it is not going to vote in favour either. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u55	Deputies, deputies, president, this proposal for a law is limited to the use and promotion of generic medicine and places the emphasis, in addition to the prescription, on promoting its sale in distribution offices. It also aims to ensure the sales of the generic laboratory industry. The generic is certainly effective, has a quality that has allowed us to reduce expenditure and has been an important element in recent years, but according to the latest data we have in Catalonia, the market share of generic medicines is 53.6%; that is, it is closer to European data than to what we have been told here of less than 40%. It is possible to do more, but in our opinion it is not the most important thing that we have pending in pharmacy matters, and I will explain myself. Today, the most important expenditure growth we are having in public health corresponds to non-generic medicines, to innovative medicines that are dispensed in hospitals. From the data we have, if we look at hospital pharmaceutical spending, from 2013 to 2017 it has gone from just over 5 billion to 6448 million. It is true that medicines for hepatitis C have been an important element in this growth, but if we get them out of here, the growth goes up to 6190 million; more than 1 billion growth in health spending in hospitals. It is a high growth that reaches a quarter in a few years. Expenditure on hospital drugs is, therefore, the fastest growing item, and it is most certain that in the future it will continue to grow, an issue that is not addressed in this bill. We believe that the rules of the medicine need to be thoroughly reviewed, and at the moment the ball would not be on the UPN roof, but on the government roof, which we hope will play this very important card. We need a deeper analysis, a broader legislative proposal, which includes this issue of price increases in hospital medicines, as we have already indicated, but also one of the major problems we are dealing with with with the previous government, which is opacity in pricing; there are even confidentiality contracts, which we do not understand, and we Members cannot have access to that. There is much to be done here, and we think that this immense work will allow generic companies, companies that are not, and above all citizens, to win. Another issue is the public investment we make in biomedicine and the difficulties we sometimes have in getting pharmaceutical companies to give us back much of the investment following this model. Therefore, on this road ahead you will find us. Finally, exhausting the last few minutes I have, if we have to modify something once and for all and very urgently is the recognition of the ability of the nurse to indicate, use and recommend the dispensation of medicines. It's a common practice in Catalonia, but we don't know what limbo the decree-law was to be implemented in. Once again, return this ball from the roof, because this country is an exporter of nurses and nurses, because of the high quality of the degrees that are held in our universities, but then does not recognize them in the normative framework. This is the big leap forward we expect. The royal decree-law of 2015 was a huge step backwards. We must recognize once and for all the importance of our nursing, which they do day by day in the framework of multidisciplinary teams. This is feasible and we want it now. Now more than ever we need it. More than a PL, we expect a ministry project with all its complexity but as quickly as possible. Thank you, Mr. President. Infirmary, forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u57	Good afternoon. Much has been said throughout this session of colonoscopy and languages, and one, who is a professional of this, has to inform you that at that time the most interesting thing is not the conversation that the doctor gives you or in what language you give it, but that it does you good and has few complications. That is what this proposal is all about. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I thank Mr Alli for finally bringing us a proposal for a law on a serious and worrying issue of health and for not having to see, as we have seen recently, how the Segovia aqueduct opens once in a while in health policy. The problem of generics is a real problem. [[Displays a graph]] This is generic consumption in the OECD, and we are below the average. What's that supposed to mean? It means that we have a problem with sustenance, linked to a market with multiple players that manages to maintain a low-priced competition and policy. That's what generics are for, to generate a competition market and have a low price. If generics do not penetrate and there are not enough industries dedicated to generics, we will not be able to maintain a reasonable price policy in the future. That is why it is a problem, a problem of free market and competition. What have you done to keep this? When I say you, I mean the two Social Democrats of this Congress, the Left and the Right. Regular, regular, regular and regular, to achieve a single price policy, without competition and without incentive. And when one regulates, regulates and removes the incentives this happens another, that is, the growth charts of the generics are flattened and the penetration of other companies is diminished. [[shows a graph]] That is why we have a problem, because we have been governed by a succession of social democrats in health policy. But this, you will say, has at least managed to control spending. Well, as just explained, that's not true. For once I'll agree with my Republican Left partner. From 2011 to 2017 spending on prescriptions fell by 1 billion; however, spending on hospital pharmacy rose by 2 billion. As a result, not only have we not controlled spending, but we have the expenditure triggered, because we have been unable to make a policy of transparency also in the prices of the hospital pharmacy. That is why it is important and, as it is important, we should try to implement measures in the policy of generics who copy what is done in Europe, because in the rest of Europe there are incentives, there is price difference, there is market policy and liberal policy. This is not what I say, as Pepe Martínez Olmos says, who was Secretary General of Health with the PSOE government, who says that a strategic plan is needed, that the government has failed and that the price differential is an option. Perhaps, as a dangerous liberal, he has not managed to join these teams of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, we are committed to a serious review of pharmacy policy, generic policy, but also price-setting policy and transparency policy. In short, this national health system needs to be sustainable and of quality and for this it needs one thing: it needs a stable government, it needs a minister that lasts more than a hundred days if possible and, above all, a minister and a government that know where they want to go, how they want to go and with whom they want to go. We need even a government that plagiarisms, that plagiarisms the best of Europe's policies if it can't do anything else. In short, we need a government that has the problems of the Spaniards in mind and not the problems of the ministers of the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the cost of medicines. To frame the matter, they will allow me to read them three quotes that have been published by the media over the past week. First: 'The big pharmaceutical companies evade the tax about 3250 million euros'. Another publication this week: 'A pharmaceutical quadruples the price of an essential antibiotic'; a lifetime antibiotic. And, third: 'The famous Spanish oncologist José Baselga resigns from the New York Oncology Institute after being known to have hidden millions of pharmaceutical revenues'. Sometimes it is interesting to know that commercial interests are very well integrated into the scientific community. We cannot analyse the prices of medicines without taking into account the framework in which we find ourselves. The variability in drug prices was further evidenced by the well-known case of hepatitis C treatments, such as when in Egypt we had a price of 900 euros and in the United States the treatment cost $84,000. To this disparity of prices and to the benefit of Gilead, who was the owner of the drug - which, by the way, quadrupled its profits in the first year following the promotion of the drug -, we must add one more chapter, and it is that two or three collective weeks ago from seventeen countries requested the European Patent Office, perfectly argued, to release this drug, which was not granted to them. Taking into account that 66% of patents are owned by the United States, which leads the market with the fifty best-selling drugs on the list, and that context in which we move, in a market principle according to which we have to sell with the highest possible profitability, we come to the current situation, and that is that we have drugs - we have already commented here on some occasion - like Spinraza, which has been marketed in Spain at a price of 400 000 euros. And it's not one of the most expensive, there are more, because Pharmaindustry takes States to the limit of what they can pay for drugs. This is the policy we currently have. When asked why this happens, the industry answers that it is the expenditure that has generated it from the manufacture of that product, but every day there are more voices against this argument that demand that there be traceability from the molecule until the product is marketed, as there is evidence of the important businesses of Farmaindustria. Within this framework, our political group agrees to increase the consumption of generics in our country. It is true that in recent years it has declined, both in units and in value, with respect to the countries in our environment. We agree that the rise of generics is good. We intuit UPN's motivation for amending this law, but, apart from its motivations, we fully agree that generics have to be more present in the market and, of course, in our health institutions. I remember when Mr Montoro, who was around here, came to an agreement on the plan to promote the therapeutic innovations he presented in the Senate, where there was an important debate. I wanted to comment that, undoubtedly, therapeutic innovations, innovations in treatments, in drugs are very important, but the best drug is the one that is best known, which is not the last. There is no time now, but on another occasion it would also be interesting to see the Court of Auditors' contributions on the 2014 and 2015 financial years as regards the marketing of drugs. We will urge the Government to legislate on this issue and to make the fixation process transparent, as some of the colleagues who have spoken earlier have said, because it is totally opaque. Transparency and responsible use of their marketing are needed. [[The lady]] We are at a turning point where we either increase the business of Farmaindustria or protect the health of the population. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Alconchel Gonzaga has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the debate before us, I would like to highlight, first of all, the commitments of my parliamentary group and the Socialist Government to pharmaceutical expenditure within our National Health System, and more in view of the need to reverse the harmful pharmaceutical policy of the previous Government. By the way, we have now learned that it was the only Social Democratic party because Citizens have changed their ideology and it is no longer called that. We thought you were, too, Mr. Igea. [[Applauds]] Our priorities are, of course, to improve the quality of the supply, to optimise the use of medicines, to ensure something as basic as the access of all people to medicines that they need without having to face economic or other barriers, to facilitate the introduction of new cost-effective medicines, to make the cost of medicines compatible with the financial balance of the health budget without having to compromise other items that are also necessary and important and, at the same time, to pay fairly for research and the development of new effective molecules. Without a doubt, these are very ambitious pharmaceutical policy objectives that require wide interventions in different aspects, on the supply and demand of medicines; on prescription, dispensation and pricing policy; on consumption and the patient himself; as well as on industrial policy in this sector and incentives for R & D. In this area there are many aspects that need to be addressed: pricing, reference prices, technology assessment, public choice of medicines, co-financing policies and the impetus of generic and biosimilar medicines, among others. During the People's Party government, pharmaceutical spending policies have meant more spending on families €160 billion in their pockets, as the Family Budget Survey says. We have even seen that the most vulnerable people have had to give up their treatments. This is therefore the importance of the debate that we are having today on the sustainability of our public health system and on the cost of pharmacy policy. My group defends, I would say, a policy of medicines that promotes the use of generics in Spain, but they will understand that we cannot comply with partial modifications such as the one we are debating today. The evolution of the penetration of generic medicines into Spain has gone through different stages, mainly related to regulatory changes in prescription, dispensation and price. It is in 2012 when, for the last time, the Spanish regulation introduces positive discrimination in favour of the dispensation of generic medicines at equal prices. It is then that the generic market in Spain has a strong momentum and reaches the highest point in the historical series of the market. Undoubtedly, there is a turning point from the amendment of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Sanitary Devices introduced in the General Budgets Act 2016, which eliminates dispensation in favour of generic medicinal products, when the prescription was made as an active principle. From that date on, we witnessed an involution and a decrease in the consumption of generic medicines. We could talk about other conditions that have influenced this stagnation of the market, such as the regulation of discounts, reference prices, the patent expiry rate, causing all of them that currently of the total number of medicines consumed that are not protected by patents two-thirds correspond to the original trademarks and one-third to generic medicines. In fact, today the generic market in Spain is far from European figures. However, we appreciate that there is a wide margin of improvement that requires redefining measures to boost the availability and supply of generic medicines on the pharmaceutical market. We believe that it is necessary because generic medicines have contributed and have to continue to contribute much to this country's pharmaceutical supply because of their support for sustainability in the National Health System since at the time when their price is financed it is 40% lower than the original medicine; because of its ability to regulate the market because its mere existence produces a price reduction in both the reference medicines and the therapeutic alternatives of this, so that the effect is produced both in the short and long term; moreover, competition is favored in order to obtain the best price and the lowest cost, and because it contributes to the unequivocal identification of the active principle it contains. The name of the active substances, as you know, is universal, provides the patient with information for the best use of the medicine due to the best understanding both at the time when the medicine is dispensed at the pharmacy office and at each of the doses it makes. Therefore, it promotes patient safety but also adherence to treatment. With regard to the prescription for active substances, I would like to point out that my community, Andalusia, has previously achieved the maximum levels of prescription for active substances, remaining for the fourth consecutive year at 93%. It is therefore important to work to improve the training and information of professionals and patients on the economic, clinical and scientific benefits of generics. But, ladies and gentlemen, all this said, my group cannot settle for a mere retouching in this matter because what is required are well-articulated measures within a general planning of pharmaceutical policy that will contribute to the strength of our health system with the intervention of the health administrations - state and autonomous - counting on scientific societies, professional colleges, patient and consumer associations and industry; this is what we demanded in the Senate from the previous government and so we repeat it again now. That is why we believe that the text we are discussing today is unambitious, touches on this issue in a very partial way, lacks strategy and does not even have a proper assessment of the economic impact. Finally, I would like to say that it measures the economic impact so badly that it even proposes an amendment to Article 98, which would cost our National Health System. For all that we have said, we are going to abstain from taking this bill into consideration, but, if it succeeds, they will not hesitate that we will make all the necessary contributions to the presentation process in order to correct all the aspects with which we do not agree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Moreno Palanques has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. To analyze this proposal of law we need to have four clear concepts basically. The first, an innovative company develops a molecule, called amoxicillin, and baptizes it and names it Clamoxil. When the ten-year patent expires, other companies arrive, copy it and make the generics and enter the financing system. At the end of the 1990s, I came up with a system that caused great anger in the pharmaceutical industry because I knew what was coming from it - Mr Alli quantified it by 21 billion, probably more - and even my own Government, of the People's Party, which was here in the ministry at the central level, but there was no other remedy than to extend that system, which is the reference price system. What is it? It consists, in great features, that this innovative molecule that has lost its patent and the copies, which are the generics, are grouped into a set that by law are worth the same. Every time one of them lowers the price, everyone has to lower the price. In 2011, the Socialist Party did something that was right, which was to introduce the prescription for active substance, so that the doctor no longer prescribed Clamoxil but prescribed amoxicillin. Who decides from that moment on? The pharmacist they're taking the line to. The pharmacist gives what he wants, gives the generic or gives the brand without a patent, but today the patient can choose the brand or can choose the generic, although almost never intervenes in that process. Having said that, it will be clear that in this proposal of law what is proposed is strictly to exclude the mark that has lost its patent, because it can only be given generic, since everyone has the same price. That is in a country that is supposed to respect the rules of competition law of the European Union. It would have been barbaric when it was applied. He was introduced by Minister Elena Salgado and taken out by Trinidad Jiménez. Ana Mato re-introduced him and Alfonso Alonso re-introduced him. It would have been barbaric if the pharmacists had done it, but they did not do it and could not be followed up. Of course, today with the electronic prescription it has to be applied, if the law goes ahead, with all its roundness, that is, it is not a positive discrimination; it is a de facto exclusion of the mark that has lost its patent. This measure does not benefit the National Health System, nor does it benefit the patient. In any case, it is a topic that remains among the innovative pharmaceutical industry that has patentless and generic brands. The data given in the proposal are not correct. It's not 40%. Those are IMS data - it doesn't give me time to explain that -; the real data are those of the Ministry of Health, which quantifies it according to the number of prescriptions, and it's not 40% the market share, it's 47.59 %. Neither penetration nor growth correspond to the figures given. It dropped in 2017 because the number of molecules that have lost their patent has dropped, but it has risen in 2018 because that number of molecules that have lost their patent has risen. In fact, generics have grown more in the last twelve months accumulated, 7.1% more than the rest. We made an amendment in 2016, in the Budget Act that was passed here and to which several of you have referred. The Government withdrew this discrimination because it was not sustainable, and the innovative pharmaceutical industry committed itself to a partnership agreement to return everything that exceeded GDP in general in the medium term. So if we didn't spend more, we had to return to the state. We tried it with the generic industry; it was not possible and today that has not been signed. But to generics we did give them an advantage to compete, because I think generic companies are good, but we have to do things rationally. We took from them a top that the Socialist Party had put on the discount at the pharmacies, which was 10%. They could make any kind of discount, and in that they competed with the innovative industry. In fact, today there are discounts of 40% and 50% in pharmacies. We did something else, limited the name EFG, generic pharmaceutical specialty, for the brands that had lost the patent and limited it to generics by giving them more advantages too. That's what we did. Of course, it cannot be that we did that and now we recover a measure that we thought was not logical and that goes against competition to have the triplet, the two measures that were adopted and the one that was withdrawn. Frankly, I think that the reference system we have is good, the prescription by medicine is good, the companies that are dedicated to manufacturing generics are a market that is consolidated, that is mature, that operate in healthy competition between them and with the brands and that must continue to maintain it. But, of course, what cannot be done is that this positive discrimination, which is actually an exclusion of trademarks that have lost patents, will be re-established once again. It cannot be, simply because it goes against common sense, because all doctors prescribe by active principle, because all medicines are worth exactly the same, because patients today can choose that brand at the same price and because it goes against the rules of competition. I agree with some of the groups. Can you do more for the generics? I think we did quite a lot in 2016, frankly, but if we have to, it can be a more comprehensive package with many other measures and not this one. This, frankly, I do not think is acceptable. By correcting some more figures: it is not 40% the market share of generics, I insist that it is 48%, but you have to bear in mind that if in other OECD countries there is something else, it is 52%, it is because there is price difference and when you go with your prescription of amoxicillin to the pharmacy in France or Germany and they say: I will pay you the lowest price, do you want Clamoxyl? Well, you have to pay for it. What do you think the patient is going to do? Well, take what the pharmacist gives you that's the generic, as it's logical. In Spain generics and unpatented brands equivalent to generics account for 81% of the pharmaceutical market. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u65	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the amendment of article 132.1, in relation to articles 130.1.6 and 131 of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, on the limitation of offences of abuse and/or sexual assault against minors. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u66	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Esquerra Republicana brings before this House today a non-legislative proposal aimed at modifying the system of prescribing offences of sexual abuse and assault against minors. In May 2017 we presented this same proposal to the Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents, which was eventually approved with some modifications. However, in the face of the inaction of the Spanish Government, we are obliged to present it again. Pederasty is one of the groups of crimes that cause greater social alarm because of the intrinsic gravity of the facts, the special vulnerability of the victim and, in particular, the feeling of impunity that this type of crime generates as a result of the high rate of prescription and filing they present. Child sexual abuse has serious consequences for the development of its victims and the experience of this abuse is characterized by the secrecy surrounding the relationship between the victim and the aggressor and the silence accompanying it. The reasons for not revealing this experience have identified personal barriers related to the victim himself and the dynamics established with the aggressor and factors also linked to the social reaction to abuse and aggression. As a result, the victim usually reports the facts many years after their completion and very often when it is too late and the offence has been prescribed and therefore the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator has been extinguished. For this reason, both the Judicial Council of the Generalitat de Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana believe that to solve the situation described it is necessary to reform the calculation of the prescription provided for in the Penal Code for this type of crime, which can go between ten, fifteen and twenty years. In particular, the main objectives of this non-law proposal are two: first, it is proposed that in offences of abuse and sexual assault against minors the period of time during which the calculation of limitation periods is suspended should be extended until the victim reaches the age of 30, as reflected in the German Penal Code and in other countries, such as Switzerland. This amendment guarantees the right to prosecute such crimes when they become aware and also the necessary maturity of what has happened and at the same time respects the institution of the statute of limitations of the offence as an essential element of a guaranteed criminal law that defends the preventive role of the penalty and its resocializing purpose. The second objective is the creation of a budget line to deal with persons who have suffered cases of sexual abuse or assault as minors and to promote all necessary measures to eliminate sexual abuse of our children and the cover-up of their aggressors. It is necessary and urgent to guarantee once and for all the right of the victims to be able to report these crimes and to end the impunity of the aggressors. Any act of violence or abuse of persons, and especially of minors, is absolutely repugnant and generates the unanimous rejection of society as a whole. It is therefore our duty to make proposals to respond and ensure that the courts can guarantee the rights of victims. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u67	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Prendes Prendes intervenes first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter that brings us here that really worries us; we are concerned about the enormous alarm and social sensitivity generated by this type of crime, crimes that are committed - as the spokesman for the Republican Left has said - in an area most of the times of privacy, an area hidden in the light and an area in which victims are often particularly vulnerable and, therefore, are crimes in which persecubility often has enormous difficulties. It is true - and all statistics indicate this - that there is a very high statute of limitations for these offences. For us, in this non-law proposal the key is to fight one word: impunity. We agree with you that we must explore ways to ensure that, to the extent possible, these crimes against sexual freedom, with minor victims in most cases, under no circumstances are affected by such impunity. This process of reviewing the statute of limitations of these offences is not addressed only in Spain. You have cited some case, for example the case of Switzerland, but it is a review process that is being addressed in all the countries of Europe or Western Europe, and different solutions have been adopted; not only the solution to which you refer from Switzerland. For example, in Germany, both the 18-year time limit for starting the prescription has been extended to twenty-one at first, and later it is true that it has also been extended to thirty years. In Austria, for example, the age of the calculation of die to quo has been raised, from when the limitation period begins to count to the age of the victim, the twenty-eight years. In Switzerland, as you said, the twenty-five for crimes committed by children under sixteen. In other words, there is a plurality of solutions. I think we all share the goal and what we have to find is the best of solutions. That is why I would like to refer to the amendment we have tabled; an amendment which is very much similar to the one tabled by the Podemos Group; an amendment which comes to say that as we share the objective, as we want to put an end to those shadows of impunity in which these crimes live, as we want to give sufficient tools to those victims so vulnerable that the crime can be prosecuted, let us see what formula we find. What we say in paragraph 1 is that a committee of experts is set up which, in the light of all the changes that are being dealt with within the European Union, in the light of what we are learning about this crime from the point of view of psychology, sociology and also of criminal technique, will propose a solution. We do not say that this is done in a generic way, creating a committee to ensure that the problem is not addressed, but, as I said, creating a committee of experts with a time limit and that, from there, the Government will bring to this House that reform of the Criminal Code that addresses the extension of these limitation periods. On the part of the Parliamentary Group we can say that this committee of experts resides in the procedural area of the General Commission of Codification, and it seems to us that it seems to us that people meet there with that special qualification. Therefore, we would also benefit from the acceptance of Podemos' amendment. I ask the group presenting the non-legislative proposal that, since we share most of the objective of this initiative, it be generous in dealing with these amendments and that it accept them because what does not seem logical is that when different decisions are being taken in Europe, here in a non-legislative proposal, in this brief and concise debate in which we certainly cannot deal deeply with a matter of this social stalemate, it is already clear what the technique is, raising the age at 30 to start counting the limitation period. That is why I ask you for this generosity and I ask you to be able to reach an agreement and to set in motion among all of us this committee of experts as soon as possible that will give us light on a matter that offends us absolutely and when we are sure that we can find that agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs García Puig has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u70	Thank you, President. Very nice late. I cannot begin my intervention without recalling the cases of macho violence that we have suffered today. Today, we have learned that two two- and six-year-old girls have been murdered by their father, who had reported ill-treatment, and one woman in Bilbao and another in Granada have also been killed. We urge women, boys and girls to make the Government's fight against macho violence a priority and to stop killing us now, please. [[Applauds]] Turning now to the GNP which we are dealing with, and which, as the representative of the Esquerra Group has said, has already been dealt with and approved in the Committee on the Rights of the Child and Adolescents, I would like to say that we would have been grateful if the proposing group had presented this GNP with the agreements which we had already reached in that Committee. When I learned that we were going to discuss this issue again in plenary, the first thing I did was to call Manuel Barbero, with whom my group has met on several occasions. Manuel Barbero is the father of the first child who denounced the sexual abuse suffered by a teacher at the Marist College of Sants-Les Corts in Barcelona. I imagine that your ladies and gentlemen will recall the case that shocked the whole city of Barcelona and the entire educational community in the country. As a result of this first complaint, a total of forty-three complaints against thirteen teachers of sexual abuse and assault in that school emerged in the early 1980s. Manuel Barbero has fought and continues to fight for justice and has set up an association called Mans Petites that seeks to raise awareness about this type of abuse and work on its prevention. The first thing Manuel Barbero tells me is that there is no doubt a problem with the prescription and he sets me as an example precisely the case that his family has suffered. In the Maristas case, of the total of forty-three complaints against thirteen teachers, only one of these teachers will go to trial, and of the seventeen complaints he has received only four. That is, of the forty-three total complaints, thirty-nine are prescribed. So, of course, we agree that we should work on the subject of prescription, and it is fair that this should be done, always obviously being very rigorous and bearing in mind that any amendment to the Criminal Code has an impact on other elements. My group would therefore agree that this amendment to the Criminal Code should be made after a very thorough, rigorous and detailed study of all the details. This is one of the amendments we have prepared. In addition, another thing Manuel Barbero tells me, who demonstrates an admirable serenity coming from a victim, is that the prescription will not solve the underlying problem. Manuel Barbero asks me to demand real work from administrations in prevention, early detection and awareness-raising. This is a totally inescapable way for our parliamentary group, which we already expressed when this GNP was discussed in the Committee on the Rights of the Child and Adolescents. That is why we have proposed an amendment to make a real commitment on the part of the Government to allocate more resources to the fight against child sexual abuse and assault and to ensure more means for associations and foundations that carry out this work of awareness-raising, prevention, training and treatment. I would also like to stress that an effective fight against this type of abuse requires a comprehensive child protection law. This is called for by associations and platforms working on children's rights. I ask the Government to submit this bill, in which the previous Government was already working, as soon as possible, that we should work on it for all groups without further delay and that this work should be open to proposals coming from civil society, which are absolutely essential. In this legislature we have enough majorities to carry out many laws capable of changing people's lives and radically improving the situation of children's rights in our country. The law on child protection must undoubtedly be one of the laws we pass, with which we fulfill people's hope and with which we show that the alternative can be a reality. We believe that this law must be ambitious and must address the whole issue of sexual abuse and assault in children at the front and at the root, and it must also reflect the proposals put forward in this GNP. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the protection of minors and I would like to start by making a dedication to the two girls who have been murdered today by their father in Castellón, in an episode that seems to be again of macho violence, and also to the two women who have been murdered at the hands of their partners in Bilbao and Granada. This is regrettable and shows us that we must spare no effort to bring this scourge to an end at once. [[The lady]] The statute of limitations is not a guarantee that can be regarded as a subjective right of the justiciable, but is simply an instrument of legal certainty that prevents the ius punisheddi of the State from going beyond reasonableness; beyond reasonableness, but not less. In crimes affecting minors, such as abuse, we are seeing clearly that the awareness of these crimes takes a long time to manifest; the individual conscience and also, why not say so, the public conscience, the consciousness of society that has to increasingly assume that a series of behaviors that not long ago were tolerated and in some way consented to are now seen as fully inadmissible. It is therefore important that this reform be carried out. Article 132 of the Criminal Code is defined as a rule and an exception. The statute of limitations takes into account the day on which the offence is committed, but the exception in particularly repugnant acts takes into account from the time of age. Well, let us delay this moment and take it until the age of thirty so that it can be ensured that the person who finally denounces has a maturity that makes him aware and evaluates the facts he suffered and allows him to have a knowledge that the action of the State in defense of his right to compensation for the injuries he suffered has been truly effective. That is why we will support this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Telechea, for presenting this non-legislative proposal. In fact, the Democratic Party, following the feeling of the Government of Catalonia at the time of Justice Councillor Carles Mundó, presented an identical initiative. We wanted to alleviate the fact that these kinds of terrible crimes, which are among those that generate the most social alarm, are filed by the statute of limitations. The cause is nothing other than the victim's difficulty in assuming these facts, because they usually occur in the most intimate areas, closest to the person, usually a minor, probably within the family, school or monitors. This makes it difficult for the person who has been the victim of the abuse to become aware of it. And when we overcome this barrier, we find that the statute of limitations leaves the person defenseless, without being able to act justice. There is a perception of impunity for this type of crime caused, as we say, by the statute of limitations. We agreed and had not tabled amendments, because - I repeat - this was promulgated by the Government of Catalonia, but, in view of the amendments they have proposed, if the proposers accepted the amendment which proposes to set up a committee, I would call on them to set a deadline for the establishment of this committee which would not go beyond the next session. It is an urgent reform and giving a response by the services of the House to a need like this would be a very good sign that we are looking after the victims. It would not be as much a matter of competition as it was in some of the points I thought the Podemos Group had defended, but above all with regard to the amendment of the Criminal Code. If you look at the constitution of this committee, we would suggest from the Democratic Party that they include it within the next session. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro i Buldo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u76	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a proposal that basically proposes to change the beginning of the computation of the terms of the statute of limitations for offences of assault and sexual abuse against minors. This proposal is accompanied by a generic complaint to prevent these crimes and, where appropriate, to prevent their cover-up and to address persons who have been victims of these crimes during their minority years. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will always offer its parliamentary consensus on all matters relating to the protection of children and young people, and in this case it will be no less. However, the initiative we are discussing suggests something that we will discuss. As has been said, it is proposed to change the beginning of the calculation of the prescription of these offences from the present beginning, when the minor reaches the age of majority, to another whose calculation is delayed until the minor, the victim, reaches the age of thirty. However, in the current Criminal Code and since 1999 the special calculation of the beginning of the terms of the statute of limitations for the case of minor victims refers to different protected legal assets and not only to sexual freedom and compensation, which correspond to different titles of Book II of the Criminal Code. Thus, article 132.1, second paragraph, mentions attempted murder, miscarriage, injury, trafficking, offences against liberty, torture, moral integrity, privacy, rights to one's own image and the inviolability of one's own home. For its part, Title VIII of Book II, whose protected legal good is sexual freedom and compensation, not only refers to assault and abuse, but also covers sexual harassment, exhibitionism, sexual provocation, prostitution, sexual exploitation and corruption. All these offences, when the victim is a minor, also have a special statute of limitations other than the general, which, as you know, is from the day the punishable offence is committed. Well, the initiative we are discussing in favour of minors we understand that it can get lame, because it forgets much of these crimes against their sexual freedom and indemnity, which are contained - as I said - in Title VIII of Book II. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, many other protected legal assets are also forgotten when the victim is a minor. A second reflection that is suggested to us on the thread of the proposal discussed refers to the de facto extension of the limitation period for two offences through the delay in the start of their calculation, which does not begin this calculation until the victim has reached the age of 30. This is a highly debated issue in our environment and in comparative law. Indeed, the current criminal treatment, introduced, as I said, in 1999, is frankly insufficient for the prosecution of these protected offences and legal assets. The time, as has already been said, for the victim's awareness and the decision to report is almost always long and unfortunately in many cases never comes. A fifth of these victims are never able to report because the psychological consequences that they carry are serious and preventive, as they have been victims of what the minors know, trust and depend on: their environment. Let us not forget that these crimes against minors occur primarily within their family and cohabitation environments. That is why it is even said that these offences should never be prescribed, although this would certainly have an impact on their probative viability, or at the age of fifty. We therefore believe that this is not a closed issue and that it should be studied carefully by the experts in this area, as proposed in some amendments, and I believe that it should also be considered in some self-amendment. Finally, Madam President - and I am finalizing - as a society we are fortunately improving and progressing despite notable setbacks in the defence of the most fragile and vulnerable. However, as far as children are concerned, the Basque Parliamentary Group believes that we are all in a hurry as a society and that the time has come to have a comprehensive law against violence against minors, and with an integral and not only criminal view - perhaps with a specific title in which the legal good protected is minors as a category and their higher interior - but also a procedural one, so important to avoid a second victimization, as well as with a preventive, educational, and other existential view, as we already have against gender-based abuse and violence against women and their minor children. I conclude by saying that, without prejudice to the points raised, we will vote in favour of the initiative. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u78	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to greet the representatives of the non-governmental organization Save the Children, who accompany us from the rostrum, and to thank as always their efforts in the ongoing struggle for the defence of minors. Rape is like a stain that is always present. Whoever says this today is a great pianist, James Rhodes, who unfortunately went through this horrible violent episode when he was a minor. Sexual abuse of minors is one of the most excruciating and repugnant crimes that may exist. Just imagining this violent fact causes most citizens impotence, frustration and tear, but the problems do not end when the abuses end. Today we talk in Congress about what happens next, about the prescription of crimes of assault and sexual abuse, where we agree with the proposing group. Something fails in our laws when, for example, Joaquín Benitez - here he has already been appointed -, a gym teacher who for thirty-five years - thirty-five years - taught at a religious center, accumulated a multitude of complaints, most of which they prescribed, which said to the journalists: Yes, I did and I thought they would come first for me. How is that possible? What happened so that for more than thirty years a teacher would abuse his students and no one would report him? And what brings us here today: how is it possible that having confessed Benedict many of the crimes will not be judged because they have prescribed? And if any of you think you can be sporadic or uncommon, nothing further from reality. They're not isolated cases. Just read the papers today. One in five people have been sexually abused in childhood. It is an overwhelming crime in the family environment, in the most trusted environment. According to Save the Children Eyes report they don't want to see, abuse lasts an average of four years. Only 15% - only 15% - of the cases are reported, and of those who enter the legal system, seven out of ten never come to oral trial. The reality is that children do not verbalize the facts spontaneously, even when they reach the age of majority. On many occasions the victim does not want to remember because what he tries to do is survive. A person who suffers sexual abuse or assault may take years to be psychologically prepared to take on the horror he has experienced and to be able to gather sufficient strength to denounce his aggressor. It also happens in the nearest environment, such as in the family, schools or religious centers, is a factor of revictimization: those who should protect them attack them, breaking the system of attachment to close relationships and trust in them and in the world. It is absolutely necessary to put violence against children on the political agenda as a matter of urgency. We should not be afraid to bring it to light, it is a big problem and so the data tells us. Just as the Law on Gender-based Violence involved one before and one after in society's perception of this macho scourge, the law to eradicate violence in children must provoke the same: the awareness in society of this serious problem. Hence the firm and strong commitment of this Government to a comprehensive protection law against violence in children, which will soon be a reality. A comprehensive state-of-the-art law that will cover each and every sector and area with which children and young girls live: families, sexual education, affectiveness, the socio-health environment, social networks, the media, leisure, leisure, State Security Forces and Bodies, etc. We tell the victims that neither this Government nor anyone else will be able to compensate them for the pain. Pain does not prescribe, but we can and must put all the necessary means, first, so that they do not go unpunished and, secondly, to prevent other children from going through that horror. This is the commitment of the Socialist Government. I'm done. It is our duty, as citizens' representatives but also as a society, to make this country, as Mr Rose said, a safe place for children. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer Treasure. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin as some of my colleagues who have spoken before me, with a painful memory of my parliamentary group of those two girls who have died today at the hands of their father and those two women who have also lost their lives. We don't settle, we won't resign. To be here today again talking about a non-legislative proposal brought to us by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left also means that we do not resign, that we continue to think, work and want to solve some problems that arise when it comes to protecting children. There are few things that shock us more as a society than we feel incapable of protecting our children. I am therefore not going to refer to other issues raised in this non-legislative proposal, which are of great interest and which I believe also involve the unanimous agreement of all or almost all parliamentary groups. These are important issues but I do not think they require any special nuances once the pact against gender-based violence that we gave ourselves in this Congress a little over a year ago allows us to already establish economic resources to address this and other problems, resources that are already found in the General Budgets of the State of 2018 that the Government of the People's Party made and that we hope that in any case the Socialist Government will be able to concreteize in the future, if it is able to bring to this House some General Budgets of the State. What is important and my group is interested in highlighting this non-law proposal - and that is what I am going to focus on - is that we are talking about certain crimes, especially sexual crimes. The statistics tell us that these crimes are committed, in the case of minors, especially in the family, affective or friendly environment, or on the part of those who have entrusted the care and protection of those children, those people who must protect them and who become the monsters that really stalk and harm them. Therefore, the need to extend the limitation period seems to us to be reasonable, so reasonable that in 1999 it was a Government of the People's Party, just four years after the adoption of the so-called Penal Code of Democracy, which introduced precisely that special limitation period, and successive Governments of the People's Party, with a subsequent reform in 1999 too, another in 2003 which does what it does is to recast the previous and the last reforms in 2015, which are expanding the scope of protection for children in respect of these conducts. What we are being asked to do now is to rethink what that period of suspension should be, which was, in one way or another, logically established in the eighteen years. In that umbrella of protection which was established in 1999 and which has been expanded through successive reforms, what we are doing is to follow the same path, the same iter that other countries have gone through seeking such protection. We have to remember that not all countries have special protection periods in relation to these crimes or others, but there are some that do, and the vast majority are precisely in the majority: countries such as Costa Rica, Colombia, Chile, Mexico, Panama or, with some peculiarities, Argentina. It is the age of majority that determines that the limitation period begins to be computed. In others there is a model of imprescriptibility: in Nicaragua, in some states of Mexico such as Oaxaca, in the United States or in Canada, for example. Also in Switzerland, which combines the protection of the limitation period from the age of 25 with the imprescriptibility for certain offences, or in Austria, which are twenty-eight. Why then the thirty-year term of Germany? It does not cease to be a random, arbitrary term, in the best sense of the word, but which in any case deserves further reflection. We also believe that there is merit in further reflection in the fact that the proposal is not limited to crimes of abuse and sexual assault, because there are many other crimes that we believe should also be included. Why don't we talk about genital ablation, for example? Why don't we talk about trafficking crimes? Why don't we talk about prostitution-related crimes? Many other crimes of which they may also be minors, as well as victims who suffer enormous psychological damage that prevents them from reporting such crimes. Why don't we start, therefore, from what we already have and through a serious and rigorous study? And why don't we also think of other potential victims, not just minors? Because the same thing that happens to minors happens to persons with disabilities or older persons. We therefore raise the issues of particularly vulnerable victims to a comprehensive solution, bearing in mind that it is minors who suffer most from this situation. Finally, one more proposal within this in-vote amendment that my group would like to put forward. Why not, since we start thinking, we also think about the imprescriptibility of some very specific issues? For example, those associated with the reviewable permanent prison, the murder of children under the age of sixteen, the murder that has been preceded by a rape. I think these are issues that need to be considered. The Group of the European People's Party therefore lends its hand so that everyone in this House today will be able to reach an agreement, to reach a pact that will give us an initial instrument that will allow this starting point to be the point of consensus. I will make the text available to the lawyers and to the proposing group so that they are aware of what exactly the amendment in voice proposed by the Group of the European People's Party is. If the Presidency has no problem, I can read it; if not, I will transfer it directly to you. It basically refers to the first point: To promote, within the General Codification Commission, the establishment of a working group to study any changes that may be necessary in our legal system in relation to the limitation of criminal proceedings in crimes of sexual abuse and sexual assault and other serious crimes committed against minors, both in terms of the time limits set and their calculation, as well as to consider establishing the imprescriptibility of offences punishable by the penalty of permanent imprisonment, which can be reviewed for the cases set out in article 140.1, first and second, of the Criminal Code. This would be our proposal. The hands stretched out have them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valmaña. I now pass on the written amendment to the Member author of the initiative, Mrs Telechea i Lozano, and I now give her the floor to make it clear whether or not she accepts the amendments tabled. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u82	We keep our text in all its terms, with the exception of the addition amendment proposed by the Podemos Parliamentary Group as point number four.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u83	Thank you so much. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE DESIGN OF ENERGY TRANSITION ON THE BALANCED PARTICIPATION OF COAL AS PROVIDED FOR ENERGY RESOURCES, AS WELL AS THE APPROACH IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE OF RESOURCES FOR THE REDUCTION OF CONTAMINANT EMISSIONS IN THE TERMICAL ELECTRIC GENERATION CENTRALS. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 162/000754]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u84	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the design of an energy transition that sets out the balanced participation of coal as a source of energy reservoirs, as well as the allocation of resources in the State's General Budgets for the reduction of polluting emissions in power stations. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. The effects of the ecological transition announced by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, with measures taken even before the Council of Ministers was set up, have strongly resounded the alarms in Asturias and Spanish industry, whose competitiveness drives economically and socially to large population regions and provides tens of thousands of stable and skilled jobs that are now being kept to a great extent because they are competing with countries that produce energy costs much lower than the Spanish. Desertification and relocation are dangerously threatening the continuity of important sectors and are in addition to the absence in Spain of a reindustrializing policy. This is demonstrated by the continued decline in industrial participation in the national gross domestic product, which has increased from 18.73 % to 16.40 % in 2017 since 2000, i.e. 2.33 points, which in the specific case of Asturias falls to less than 3.29 points. In addition to the lack of objectives and measures to support reindustrialisation in Spain, the Government has announced a lack of purpose through the Minister for the Ecological Transition to close the power generation thermal power plants in Asturias that supply large power-intensive and energy-exporting industries. The closure of these power stations, encouraged by the Government, will entail an increase in the receipt of light, with an impact on the final invoice of an average consumer of between 5 and 10 %. In Spain we are already at the head of the European electricity shortage, and even more so with the historical peaks reached in past days that warn us that they will be surpassed. The renunciation of coal, the only indigenous fossil fuel that we have in Spain, is also equivalent to sacrificing our energy sovereignty because it is an indispensable national source of indigenous energy resources that we have in abundance. Last year 2017 coal accounted for 17.4% of all electricity generated in Spain, the third largest source of energy in the energy mix, behind nuclear and wind power. On the pretext of complying with the Paris agreements, the Spanish Government demarcates itself from the energy policy which, however, maintains and develops other countries of the European Union, in the case of Germany or Poland, where its leaders think of other alternatives to protect the general interest of their citizens, to grow economically and to create employment and well-being. Where does Pedro Sánchez copy his deserting policy? Of the most rancid ecological manuals. Where does your policy of camouflaged closures with misleading statements about the perverse effects on the environment and health? From a French minister who has already resigned. How will the Government cope with the economic and social damage caused by the irreversible destruction of thousands of jobs? I, Pedro Sánchez, President of the Government, am the champion of green progressiveism and as a good socialist, I am the one who comes after fixing the mess, which solves the colossal labour, economic and social imbalance. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other sensible alternatives and they are available to the Government. In the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018, which today the president undertook to execute in the debate of the motion of censure, important endowments were incorporated at the instance of Forum to advance in the control and investigation of environmental emissions. This is the case for EUR 20 million for reduction of emissions in thermal power plants and EUR 150 million for aid to the electricity-intensive industries for indirect costs of CO2. However, instead of applying from the first minute to the budget implementation for which it was barely half a year old, the Government began to paint energy policy in a green light and, as a result, will only be able to disturb and desert the autonomous communities, regions and sectors that are threatened by their economic and social survival as a result of the frivolous and irresponsible measures that the Government intends to impose. To correct such measures I propose, on behalf of the Forum, that the Congress of Deputies urge the Government with the votes of its lords, in addition to their words, and thus be consistent with what their parties and comrades manifest in those communities in which this matter is crucial for their future. First, take as a reference in the energy planning that develops the transition process the safeguarding of the general interests of Spain, concrete in the preservation of its energy sovereignty and in the guarantees of quality supply for all citizens. Secondly, within the framework of European legislation and in line with other European countries of fossil energy resources similar to Spain, the Government will study the design of a medium- and long-term plan for the energy transition, which will be subject to the presentation, debate and approval of the Congress of Deputies and which will set out the balanced participation of the role of coal as its own source of energy resources. In the framework of the industrial innovation policy, the Government will provide, thirdly, in the State General Budgets and in sufficient amounts, investments in R & D+i to promote the reduction of polluting emissions in thermal power plants. Fourthly and lastly, under the legislation of the electricity sector, the Government will promote appropriate legislative amendments allowing it in extreme cases to authorise the closure of thermal generation facilities, provided that the security of quality electricity supply, the downward impact on electricity prices, the positive impact on employment, the improvement of the competitiveness of enterprises and the well-being of families have been guaranteed. Madam President, allow me to use the limited time I have left to refer to the amendments tabled by the Socialist and Citizens' Group. Among other things, both amendments agree to delete from the text any express reference to coal and thermal power plants. By eliminating any mention of these terms they fulmine a very substantial part of the objective of this non-law proposal, which is an irrevocable matter for the maintenance of tens of thousands of jobs and for the economy of large population regions. Accepting their amendments would be to disagree on the future of all of them. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, first of all I have the floor, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u87	President, ladies and gentlemen, from here I ask Mr García Oblanca, Mr Oblanca, excuse me, Martínez Oblanca - excuse me, Isidro - to give us a vote on points on this initiative because of the failure to accept the amendments. - Well, at least I put the laughing stock in the afternoon. That's good. When we talk about energy policy, we have to talk about policy at national level. Why do I say that? Because doing the energy policy of the autonomous communities is not to understand either the country project or that energy is key to the strategic development of any country that is valued. In this case, we need to talk about strategy, geolocation, we need to talk about the importance of Spain's position in energy development not only at national level, but also at European level and, above all, we need to talk about country strategy. When they talk about energy sovereignty, I prefer to understand it from another point of view, because if we talk about raw materials, perhaps in the future we can talk about energy sovereignty. Unlike Mr Martínez Oblanca, I see the sun, I see the sea, I see the wind, I see different elements that are also raw materials that in the future could perhaps lead us to that romantic idea that seems today, but that if we plan well it can be a reality. Europe has already manifested itself and has said that coal burning subsidies will soon be eliminated. Europe has already set the stage, but unfortunately the duties have not been done, and that is why we are still discussing this issue today. We cannot allow initiatives to be brought in that the only thing they seek in this case is an end, or they have an electoral end because - I repeat - they do not speak of either strategy or country position, but what cannot be allowed in any way is that energy policy is dictated, as I have said, from the autonomous communities. For example, these days we have seen the condemnation of three years for misappropriation of the money of all miners in this country to Mr Villa - who was the political-union leader of the Socialist Party - who has dictated the policy on energy and, in particular, on coal in this country, who has not helped to convert the sector and who has now been condemned precisely for putting the money in his pockets, money which - I repeat - was of all miners. [[Applauds]] Therefore, when we talk about energy policy we cannot talk about the interests of a few - I repeat - of a few colleagues in the Socialist Party in this case and, above all, I would like to put on the table - Mr Martínez Oblanca will certainly agree with me - the request for the creation of a committee of inquiry on what has happened with the mining funds, with the funds allocated to the entire mining sector to reconvert it, with those funds destined not to have this debate today and that, however, they have remained round in someone's pockets and not where they would have to stay, which would be in the basins and also, as I say, in the miners. There is no conversion, so there has been no efficient investment of public resources. There has been talk of industry and we bet, of course, by promoting R & D & I, by promoting the efficiency of our industry's consumption, but we cannot be tricked into linking the future of industry is directly linked to the future of thermals because one thing is thermals and another is industry. If we work on an alternative energy model, if we work on developing more R & D & I in our industries and making them more efficient, we can certainly agree there, but we cannot use industry as a trap to defend a specific sector of energy policy. There has been talk of prices and, as I said the other day, prices are currently being increased by the price of CO2, which has multiplied by five in the last year. If we have the most polluting source with a predominant role in our mix, obviously, if the CO2 market rises, the price of light will rise. So let us not cheat and go where it touches, which is taxation, but not as makeup but as real taxation, and stop using energy as a collection tool and start using it as a vehicle that can transform our economy and also our environment. Point four is basically what was voted on the other day. Citizens of course do not agree that no company can put the Government, none of the governments in check, but we must look for the right tool and not do it in this way. This is not the way because there is neither planning nor structure nor there is a path to where we want to go and, above all, it is not done from the consensus. Energy transition yes, but not with improvisation. Then we will discuss the Castor case, which is also the result of improvisation. We cannot continue to assume patches that right now pay our citizens on the bill for light. I understand that everyone stands up for their plot. I understand that and that is why we are debating in this rostrum, but we must defend everyone's part, which is that of the energy project of this country, that of the future of this country, that of the change in the economic model of this country and also that of what the near future we want to leave behind all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández. For the defence of the amendment, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by condemning the macho killings that have taken place today in our country, those two girls and those two women in Maracena and Bilbao. It is certainly one of the most serious elements that we have in Spain right now, and I could not let my first words go to memory for those women killed today in Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, I will explain to you why my group does not like this non-legislative proposal that you have brought to the House today. First of all, it is a non-law proposal to entangle, to entangle politically. A few weeks ago one of the People's Group also came here. Now you bring it, and you bring it at a time when social dialogue has begun with social actors on an important issue, and we have not been chosen here to recreate ourselves in the problems, you have chosen us to solve them. Bringing here this non-law proposal, with that explanatory statement, which in some respects not only lacks the truth, but becomes insulting, is not the same as someone who wants to address this problem seriously. So the first question is that we don't like to mess with problems, we like to put solutions on the table, and today you've come to that. Secondly, if you really want to know what is going on with it coal, I give you a recommendation: start by looking for the responsible, and do you know who is responsible? It has a name and surname, it's called the People's Party. [[Applauds]] They are responsible for what is happening in the mining basins, and they are responsible because on February 7, 2012, with the government of Mr Mariano Rajoy, they sent a document to Brussels requesting the closure of the coal mines. In 2016 they sent this second document, where they reaffirm what they said in 2012. [[showing a writing]] Therefore, if there is someone who has worked in this country to keep the mining basins out of the future, it is the People's Party alone, and they did so because in addition to 2013 they established a plan of coal that they have systematically failed. The coal plan said that 250 million were going to be invested in infrastructure in the mining basins, that 150 million euros were going to be invested in business projects. Do you know how many have invested? Zero euros; that is what the People's Party has done: bringing the mining basins to a terrible situation. That is why we do not understand that you come here today, because if this has a responsible one, we do not understand that you say anything about them, about those who have generated this problem and have brought us this situation that we are experiencing. Third element that we do not like of this proposition not of law. If there's anyone who understands the mining basins, it's the Socialist Party, and you know why? Because what is behind this debate is not just an energy model, it is a model of society: a society with strong unions, with decent jobs, with people fighting for what they want, for that reason. Have you not wondered why the Socialist Party rules in Laviana, Ariño or La Robla? You know why? Because you know us; you know how you are and how we have been for a very long time; therefore, we don't have to explain anything about the mining basins, we know them perfectly, we work on them every day and you know who has always been there and who uses them opportunistically and electorally, as you do here today. [[Applauds]] So, by briefly explaining our amendment, we are calling for dialogue, social dialogue between the social partners and the Government, which is what is beginning now, and that is why we are talking a lot about dialogue in our amendment. Do you know what we're talking about too? Something you are not talking about, the just, just energy transition. It is fair that these basins that have contributed to the development of the country in recent decades, generating the energy that needed to be industrialization, have a future, and that is what we are working on, that we are working on, with business developments, as I say, with infrastructure and with a reasonable time; that is, we are going to need time to do so and that is why we say that this is a just energy transition and what we have to do is to get to work, as I said, and not to get in the way. Moreover, it is quite unfair his non-law proposal because projects that we had initiated in R & D like Ciden in León are left aside, which they do not mention because they will surely not like what the People's Party did while governing: emptying all these initiatives that started socialist governments. So, Mr Foro Asturias, let me tell you that the next time you talk about coal, you take it a lot more seriously, that you address this problem seriously because the mining basins deserve it and, if you want to know more about it, my group and all the people who are in the mining basins working day by day on it we can explain to you what this is about the just energy transition, how you work for people's law and how you work for their decent wages and jobs. Have no doubt in the mining basins that the Socialist Party will be there, as it has always been. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu. At the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u91	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today Forum Asturias presents us with a non-legislative proposal to set the balanced participation of coal as its own source of energy resources, as well as the allocation of economic resources for the reduction of polluting emissions. According to the European Environment Agency, coal plants, which I think we are going to talk about today, are the most polluting industrial plants in Europe that most affect climate change, as they emit a very high percentage of CO2 emissions. Europe, in the Paris Agreement, has committed itself to decarbonising the energy model, and to this end, among other measures, it is committed to the progressive closure of coal-fired power plants, within a time frame also set by the European Commission itself: the year 2019 for the closure of coal-fired public aid-dependent mines and 2020 for power plants that do not significantly reduce their emissions. The energy sector is key, and it is a sector on which action must be taken to comply with the Paris Agreement and, therefore, also with the commitments set out therein and to achieve a cessation of CO2 emissions, as well as a 100 per cent renewable park. But we also agree that this transition, this process of decarbonisation leading to the closure of these types of plants, must be carried out gradually and ensuring the conversion, of course, of the affected areas. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the removal of coal from the electricity mix will mainly affect imported coal, since a very high percentage, about 70 % of the coal consumed in thermal power plants, is imported. It must also be said that so far policies have been implemented to favour this import coal rather than the national coal. The closure, moreover - we have to say - is no surprise, firstly because the Emissions Directive already announced it and also with the mining pacts that already provided for this process or this reality. The fact is that neither the public funds for the reindustrialisation of these regions have been applied effectively nor efficiently and, ultimately, mitigate the adverse effects. These funds have not been used for the intended purposes. In this regard, it should also be said that the Forum, in the 2018 State General Budgets, managed to adopt an amendment amounting to EUR 21.5 million for the agreements that were pending the liquidation of the mining plans for 1998-2005 and 2006-2012. Some funds that we also think are necessary to reorient above all the productive fabric of those regions affected by closures; although we also understand that since they are public money they have to ensure some results and that this money is destined for the conversion of the sector and not for other people, as it seems to have happened. With regard to the non-legislative proposal, we agree with one of its points and would therefore vote in favour of some. But not so with point 4, which re-establishes the regulation of closure authorisations that was already debated a week ago, against which we voted the majority of groups, in order to avoid, above all, granting an excessive margin of discretion to the Administration, and for the legal uncertainty that could lead to new investments. That is why, and bearing in mind that a fair transition must be promoted that minimizes the impact of the closure of these power stations with consensus and also with dialogue with all the agents and administrations involved, we will set our position on the point vote, and I believe that the parliamentarian of Foro Asturias will accept that this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagstizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u93	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. It will allow me to call into question the fact that this proposal protects the real general interest of the citizens. And if you'll allow me, with all due respect, you reverse the saying ecologist of: think globally, act locally. We want, above all, on such important issues as this, to opt for a constructive discourse but, regretting it again, your proposal does not look realistic and is not realistic for several reasons. You see, I don't find anything new in saying that just two weeks ago the price of electricity in the wholesale market reached one of its peaks, it has been repeated here today. On the other hand, it seems to me relevant to analyse what technologies provided electricity at the time of greatest demand. Note, they were: nuclear energy, 19,5; coal, with 18.8; the rest, renewable, hydraulic energies, accounted for 33.3. That is, 38.3 versus 33.3. Therefore, these high prices are - you pass - related to fossil energies. This has been the case and will happen again in the future. These prices are related to fossil energies, those energies that also depend on subsidies and internalize the cost of the price of CO2, a cost that increases and that has an impact on prices - pure logic of the marginalist market of the price formation in which we are installed - and this is for nothing the fault of Asturias or the miners. We found a key factor: that the price of CO2 - that sure you have in mind - has not stopped climbing - you know that in recent times it has not stopped climbing, as has already shown you the companion of Citizens -, and the forecasts of the future is that it continues to grow. Then you will understand your logical lordship wondering what sense it has to subsidize an energy that will increasingly increase its price. And this is only if we look at purely economic logic. Because there is also, and no less important, another area of analysis which is environmental; the impact of using this energy source. It is true that his proposal envisages an economic allocation for the reduction of emissions from thermal power plants, but investing public resources in perpetuating a polluting and expensive model we believe does not make much sense. That is why we insist that it is clear that we care about job creation, but not at the cost of perpetuating a model where subsidies are the basis, as we will only succeed in perpetuating inequalities. It is necessary - in this sense our vote will be an exceptional yes for point 3 of your proposal - a stake in investments in R & D+i to develop and enhance new sources of energy that are competitive and that guarantee by themselves a future free of polluting emissions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u95	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would like to begin by recalling that the mining regions of northern Spain, particularly the Asturians and the Lions, have fuelled with coal the engine of Spanish industrial development over the last two centuries. [[The Lord]] This has led to a high cost for these regions and I am not just talking about labour costs. You know that in the last two centuries there have been hundreds of miners who have died in the Spanish wells, but we also need to talk about the hundreds of thousands of mining families who have seen their health degraded by the hard, exploitative, and beastly work that has meant that people have had to go down to a well to power those engines. But let us also talk about the socio-environmental and public health costs that these regions have also suffered and that are very often forgotten. Perhaps Mr Martínez Oblanca has made an omission in that regard that I will now try to save. Mr Martínez Oblanca, you will know that, according to the scientific data available, in Asturias the deaths associated with climate change, i.e. the suspended particles that come from thermals, specifically makes the mortality rate six times higher than that which exists, for example, in a city like Madrid, which is precisely not one of the greenest cities, despite everything that we have in Europe. In the case of León, these mortality rates are up to three times higher than those of a province in the same autonomous community as Ávila. That is to say, they are already paying these regions a very high cost for the energy model in which we are settling. That's where we put, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, all those Asturian families that you forget. At this point, I think it is general consensus that the historical cycle of coal is coming to an end; first of all, because there is scientific and absolute evidence, which has not been discussed for a long time, about climate change and its consequences. I will also talk about the fact that science has provided new sources of renewable energy that are now not only cleaner, but also more efficient and cheaper. - Mr. Martínez Oblanca, this has been going on for the past year. Therefore, we all know that the time for that change has come and when we have already reached that time of change there are only two positions: the first is to hide the situation and lie to people, and we are not going to lie to people. We can lie by saying that there is a future for coal when there is not because the European Union has said so, because governments have said so, because there are international agreements that have said so, and because there is a scientific community crying to change things. We could also lie by proposing an alternative like the one you propose: the technologies of storage and capture of emissions in thermals. You should know, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that this has already been ruled out by the scientific community and I refer, for example, to the report of the intergovernmental expert group on climate change that has been working on the matter since 1998, but there are other reports that come to the same conclusions. In fact, it seems that the only person who doesn't come to these conclusions is seems to be Rajoy's cousin and now yourself. In short, we can choose the model of industrial conversion that already suffered this country in the 1980s, the so-called so-called model of industrial conversion. I belong to the generation of Spaniards who witnessed how that evil so-called conversion in the 1980s caused unemployment and heroin to be conquered in the regions of Euskadi, Cantabria and Asturias - I had to attend that - as a result of the despair and inaction of the then government. That can't happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot happen again, because, moreover, there is an alternative and that is the second path we propose to you here today. The alternative is to prepare and take advantage of the opportunity to make these comarcas an economic power based on renewable energies that will enable them to continue to feed the electro-intensive aluminium, zinc and other industries at energy-competitive prices. By the way, this morning I was reading an interview with the president of Iberdrola in which I recognized today that the way to guarantee a reduction in energy prices is the investment in renewables - no ecologist is saying it, is saying it the president of Iberdrola - that it also ensures the creation of quality jobs and that it allows us to resume the path to be a power in renewables again. We started in 2008, but we stopped because one day the PP government, in connivance with the electrics, decided to abort that path. This implies the determined action of the State, which has not happened so far and which must happen. We demand that the State initiate this path as soon as possible. I am not going to go into the issue of the current energy price, Mr Martínez Oblanca, because it seems to me simply incomprehensible that you link the high energy prices in Spain to an energy transition that has not yet occurred and you forget the oligopoly that we have and the connivance that has existed here for decades by politicians. [[Applauds]] Please, what are we talking about? Now it will turn out that the guilt does not have that oligopoly, but that the sun, the air and the clouds have it. That's gonna happen, right? I will end by simply telling you one thing with all due respect, Mr Martínez Oblanca. When are you guys gonna stop hiding your head and start really thinking about the future? Yeah, we can delay coal for two, three, four or five years. And then what? You don't have an answer for that. When will you join our demands so that it is the State that is resolutely involved in avoiding what can be a disaster rather than an opportunity? The day you decide to stop demagogying, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, we may find ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Cañal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I announce my group's vote in favour of this non-Forum bill, which coincides with the policy followed by the People's Party and its Government over the past few years. A policy that, from the common sense, has been geared to the fight against climate change, but through a fair and balanced energy transition that, in fulfilling the commitments made by the Kingdom of Spain in the field of climate change, is the most beneficial for our families and for our businesses. By the way, the same policy we defended when we were in the government, which we defend when we are in the opposition and which we defend here in Madrid, in Asturias, in Castilla León, in Aragón or in any community where power generating plants are located and we must defend the general interests of the Spaniards. Mr Urquizu, spokesman for the Socialist Group, you need seriousness. The only opportunist is you, because you have twisted the truth. Whoever agreed to the closure of coal mining in Spain was Mr Zapatero's socialist government in 2010, with Mr Almunia as Commissioner for Competition in the European Union. [[Applauds]] That's where the coal mining closure was signed. It seems a lie that you don't know or want to blame the People's Party now. This House reached a unanimous agreement in 2016 to appoint a committee of experts to prepare a report on the alternatives to be followed in order to achieve a balanced and fair energy transition, and to meet the decarbonisation commitments with the European Union; remember, in 2016. What conclusions has this committee of experts reached? The document has it, Your Honors, and you should study it. Not maintaining a share of our coal thermals would mean an increase in the price of electricity between 14 and 30 %; not extending the use of nuclear power plants would further increase the price between 15 and 25 %; and what is worse, the replacement of nuclear energy and coal by gas does not reduce CO2 emissions, but can even increase them. Is this Government taking into account the occurrence and rectification of the proposals made by the experts, which were submitted a few months ago? It is clear from Minister Ribera's proven verborrhea, an expert in puddles, that this Government does not take into account the committee of experts. Are the groups in this House having this request? Rojiverde ecology and orange neo-ecology also seem to want to take over the experts' report because it does not coincide with their preconceived dogmas. Not only is this report of the experts ignored, but the Rojiverdes have hidden the conclusions of the Greenpeace study, I suppose nothing suspicious of being commissioned by them, the Institute of Technological Research of the University of Comillas, which also comes to conclusions similar to that of the experts, that is, the rise in prices by eliminating coal and nuclear power stations. As good ecologists of carpeting, these groups do not want to hear about the study of experts that this House has requested, neither of consensus nor of the warnings made to them by the governments of the autonomous communities, mayors, businessmen and trade unions. They do not want to allow reality to spoil their headline: We are the vanguard of European ecology. It doesn't matter what price you pay. By the way, I also remember that some wanted to be the vanguard of the renewables in their day and we continue to pay the Spanish every month in the receipts of light. Finally, this non-legislative proposal insists on promoting regulation of the closure of any power plant and we cannot agree more with the proposal. Just two weeks ago, the People's Parliamentary Group defended this orderly regulation through a bill, which was rejected by this House for astonishment of its own and strangers, and for the joy of those who will be able to shut down their power stations only on the basis of their business interests, which often do not coincide or have to coincide with the general interests of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour because we are consistent with what we advocate when we are in the government and in the opposition. We are aware of the demands of the autonomous governments and local corporations of different signs, business associations and trade unions, which see the drift that has entered this government. We say it here and we will continue to say it in any corner of Spain without deception and without the double language that some of you use, which certainly does not help to dignify politics. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u98	Thank you very much, Mr García Cañal. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Martínez Oblanca whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u99	As I have said in the rostrum, Mr President, I do not accept any of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u100	All right. Thank you very much. We'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u101	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the problems generated by plastic waste and the measures necessary to deal with its reduction. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by strongly condemning the macho killings that have taken place in Spain today and urging the Government to fight this scourge which we urgently need to eradicate in our country. [[Applauds]] Last week we raised the need to address a problem that is increasingly of concern to citizens, to public opinion, to people, such as the consequences of plastic pollution on the environment and in particular on the marine environment. We said in our question to the Government that pollution of the sea has a name, plastic. I am not going to review each and every one of the impacts we talked about the other day, but I do want to recall some specific facts that tell us about the gravity of the problem we are facing. Every year 8 million tons of plastic waste enter the oceans and seas of the world. For us to get an idea, this assumes that every minute humanity is throwing a plastic garbage truck into the sea. So at this point, by 2050 there's going to be more plastics in the sea than fish. I believe that this statement is quite serious because of the consequences it has; consequences, by the way, that they are not only environmental, that they are not only ecological, but that they are also economic. Or do we not know how much it costs to clean our beaches every day of all the plastics that reach their shores? I remember that in 2015 a Greenpeace studio found that for every 100 meters of beach there were 320 objects. Of those 320 objects collected on the beaches, 80% were plastics. That is the magnitude of the problem. And this is not just in Asia, it's not just the five plastic islands in the South Pacific, the North Pacific or the Atlantic; the problem we have here, very close: our Mediterranean Sea is severely contaminated by plastics. Although it houses only 1% of the world's waters, yet we have 7% of the microplastics that pollute the seas. The problem is therefore here and our country is also responsible for this pollution. In fact, according to data from the ecological organization WWF, Spain is the second country in the Mediterranean in terms of the amount of plastic discharges to the sea. I think this should make us think that we are not talking about a problem that only affects Asia or that only affects other seas; it is affecting us a lot here and has an impact, first of all, on fauna. In fact, it is estimated that already three out of every hundred cetaceans, out of every hundred whales that reach our beaches, are drowned for having ingested plastic waste. There's not a single kind of turtle that hasn't been in contact with the plastic. Turtles feed primarily on jellyfish and confuse plastic bags with jellyfish; therefore, they ingest plastics continuously, leading to death. The turtle spawning beaches in many cases are contaminated to the point that these beings cannot reach their spawning areas because they are hampered by plastics. This is the magnitude of the problem, a problem that we have known this week that also has health consequences. We have known a study that tells us that mosquito larvae that grow in those floating plastics ingest microplastics that can then transmit to the trophic chain and therefore contaminate us with those microplastics. Fortunately, there are many people who are working to put a stop to this situation; there are many people in Spain and around the world who are mobilizing to fight against plastic pollution. We here today, in the Congress of Deputies, have the opportunity to give a clear message to citizens and other institutions that it is a matter of concern and concern to us, that we can take action and that we are going to take it, and we are going to urge the Government of the nation to take it. That is why we have tabled this motion, which basically has five points. The first is the most important for us because it talks about prevention. Whenever we talk about waste and waste we talk a lot about recycling and treatment, but we cannot forget that the waste that is less polluting is not produced and, therefore, we call for measures to be taken - in line, by the way, with what the European Commission is already doing - to prevent, to avoid such pollution by waste, by plastics to be used and disposed of, of one use and that we do not need because we have alternatives and, therefore, we can dispense with them. To do without them, it is necessary to take concrete legislative measures that are at the root of the problem and that eliminate its production and marketing. Of course, we call for much higher levels of recycling to reach 100 percent or, if not, what are we talking about when we talk about the circular economy? We are allowing our waste, once collected, to go to China, until China has said enough and closed the borders, because they were not recycling, but exporting abroad. The second point we are addressing is the need for public administrations - all administrations - to engage in this struggle. Some autonomous communities, such as Navarre or the Balearic Islands, have already taken a step forward and are legislating against all these waste. But we believe that municipalities, municipalities and other communities - all - should also be involved. I remember, I have very engraved in my retina the image of those beaches that only a few weeks ago, after the celebrations of the day of San Juan, of the bonfires of San Juan, seemed authentic plastic dumps. We have to avoid that. The third aspect is the change in management systems or at least their modernisation, their expansion. It is unacceptable for Ecoembes to have a monopoly in Spain on the treatment of waste, especially packaging. We believe that space should be opened up, we believe that other proposals should be opened up to the market. We speak of one in particular, but surely there is more, which is the system of return and return; we believe that it must be approached and that the path must be opened towards it. Fourthly, of course, we need citizen complicity, and that is why we are talking about education, awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns for citizens to accompany us in this effort to combat pollution. Our last point calls for a comprehensive agreement, within the framework of the United Nations, to ensure that this global problem has an equal response in all countries. It is true that we need concrete solutions in our country, in all countries, but we also need this to be addressed internationally and globally. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to launch a strategy to solve an issue that concerns us, which causes us environmental damage, economic damage, health damage. We can do it. I hope that we will take this opportunity and that the Congress of Deputies will take a step forward against plastic pollution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u103	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which in this turn will also lay down positions, first of all, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the exaggerated use of plastic in the world has created an island in the Pacific that is equivalent on the surface to Spain, France and Germany together; an island that dumps plastic waste, which is the most eloquent example of the serious problem we face as a human being and which demonstrates the unsustainability of our way of life. Examples of everyday life show us the excessive and unnecessary use of plastic, from the packaging of meat to pieces of fruit in a supermarket, to individual biscuit bags or to single-dose coffees; plastic that often ends up in the sea and, as has already been pointed out, accounts for 85% of the world's marine litter. This is worrying and urgent. It is therefore necessary to develop a state-wide strategy to reduce single-use plastics as well as to reduce, in general, the production of plastic objects. In some autonomous communities we have already done our duties and specific plans have been put in place, such as the new Integral Waste Plan of the Valencian Community, which deals with the prohibition of the marketing of single-use plastics that can be replaced by other materials, such as coffee capsules, ear sticks, cutlery, dishes... Thus, the Valencian strategy sets the year 2020 as a target date similar to the strategy also developed by the Balearic Government, also following the guidelines of the European Commission's strategy to reduce the production of plastic and the prohibition of microplastics. Our group will vote in favour of this motion. In addition, we thank the proposer for accepting amendments concerning the necessary transposition of European directives which are part of the European Plastic Strategy contained in Directive 2018/852 on packaging and packaging waste. We also believe that it is essential to focus on the identification of those products that will have to bear a clear and standardized label that reports on how waste is disposed of, its negative environmental impact and the presence of plastics in them, such as wet wipes or baby diapers. From Compromís we fought an arduous battle precisely from the municipalities, which spend a lot of money on the maintenance and cleaning of the beaches and their sewers, which is punctuated by huge quantities of these products. It is necessary to inform, raise awareness and reduce the use of excessive and unnecessary plastic in our society, and public administrations here have an indispensable role to play. For this reason, as we play a lot, it is important that we get to work now. As I say, Compromís will approve this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Go ahead and we will support this initiative. We will finally see the text put to the vote, but in any case it will count on our support. We share much of its diagnosis: plastic as an environmental problem, but also as an economic problem, the need to address both global and local measures, and there, necessarily, as Partit Demòcrata, we must highlight the policy that different governments in Catalonia have made in this area and remember as important milestones the 2009 Stock Exchange Pact, which committed all the economic sectors in Catalonia to this reduction of plastic, and finally the legislation that was adopted a few years ago banning single-use stock exchanges. Therefore, from this legitimacy of the policy that we have developed in Catalonia, we will support this initiative. He referred the spokesman for Unite Podemos, and also for Equo, to the global dimension of the problem. The motion speaks of an international agreement to ensure that plastics are not present in the oceans. We agree, and here we have a first-dimensional challenge for the poor countries, for the developing countries, which do not have the material means to develop the waste management policies that the advanced countries can implement, a huge challenge for international development cooperation that must also involve the state government, and also a policy that we develop within the framework of a European policy, developing some of the directives. So, coincidence. Finally, the motion refers to the deposit system. My group understands that the consensus on this matter is in the process of returning to the Waste Act that we adopted in the Socialist Government's legislature. There was a space for this system to begin to analyse its implementation. Let's go back to that consensus that the lone PP broke. I believe, Mr López de Uralde, that in this motion we can find a broad consensus on an element of citizen, local and global concern. He's going to count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that plastic hides among its many virtues the characteristics that make it dangerous to the environment: it is extremely cheap to produce, it is moldable and easy to transport and manufacture. Plastic, since its invention in the 19th century, has meant a real revolution and without its contribution it would have been unthinkable that we would have reached the moon. It has been fundamental in intensive agriculture and the revolution it has entailed, or in the remarkable advances that medicine has made. At present, the annual production of plastic is around 335 million tonnes, but of all this volume of plastic placed on the market only 6 % is made from recycled plastic. We are using massively a material that can take between one hundred and a thousand years to decompose, depending on its composition and, more seriously, we are using it to manufacture disposable products. Politicians should put solutions to this and not problems or invent distractions. I am surprised by Mr Campuzano's statements regarding the Pact of the Bags, which he has mentioned, and also by Podemos' attitude that although they show sensitivity to this matter, they do not show it when the streets, squares and beaches are flooded with yellow plastic ties. [[Show me a picture.-Applause]] The cleaning brigades picked up a ton of yellow plastic in one night. I would have liked the Lords of Podemos to have spoken on this too. The way plastics are produced, used and disposed of now has enormous adverse effects on the environment and the economy, and harmful health consequences for both humans and animals. The costs of the global ecological footprint have become unsustainable. The main challenge is, therefore, to change production and consumption habits, but are we doing so? Are we doing enough? In my group's view, it is clearly not; we are lagging behind even with the most elementary reforms. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, the governments of the PSOE and the PP have put our country at the forefront of environmental awareness. We are the country that accumulates the largest number of environmental infringements throughout the European Union; we close 2017 with thirty open procedures and triple the European average. We have non-compliances ranging from water purification, through landfills, air quality in cities or the relaxation of the protection of natural spaces. I would also like to make a call to the question of waste water because recently the Court of Justice of the European Union, on 24 July, fined the Kingdom of Spain EUR 12 million and, in addition, we have to pay EUR 11 million every six months if we do not settle this matter. Since the Ecological Transition Commission, we have made repeated requests for the Minister to appear to account for this issue, and today we still have no clear response from the Ministry. In addition to all this, we have nationalisms, which strive to divide and confront societies when the great challenges before us remind us that united action represents our best chance of success. The PP has taken three years to transpose a 2015 directive and it was not until July 1 when the single-use plastic bags began to be charged. Citizens already presented an initiative in 2016 to move forward faster, but we are late and the progress is insufficient. The PP and PSOE are not addressing important issues. They are too busy defending their interests and those of their friends, they are dedicated to putting patches and measures that are late and clearly insufficient. The transition to a sustainable economy is not a cost, but an investment in a more prosperous future for all citizens. We must do so with reforms to encourage talent and investment, but also from transparency, information and scientific rigour. We must move forward in the transition to a circular economy, 100 per cent sustainable, that surpasses the model of using and pulling, that is, we must produce and consume with maximum efficiency until all waste is disposed of. Ladies and gentlemen, we Spaniards throw at landfills every year plastic waste worth EUR 1.5 million. With this amount could be paid the energy bill of 1.5 million households in this country. For this reason, Citizens are calling for an integral law of transition to a circular economy, 100 per cent sustainable, that goes beyond the model of using and pulling, and we have made it clear in our amendments that we are going to deal with the proposing group. We need a strong and decisive government that is not hostage to the nationalists who want to break Spain and that is not more concerned with surviving on the basis of ads and balloons probes than to take forward the great challenges that this country has posed, and that is not this government. Gentlemen of the PSOE, get to work and start by making the institutions fulfill their obligation: to clean the streets, squares and beaches of Catalonia from the tons of yellow plastic ties before they end up at sea. [[Applauds]] What doubt there is that this would be a good start and would also comply with court judgements. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. I rise to the rostrum to announce our vote in favour. I have to start in a way I didn't want, because here the citizens' comrades are all day complaining that the Catalan groups come to talk about the monotheme and it turns out that the only ones who put the monotheme into a debate about plastics are those of the Citizens' Group. [[Applauds]] You're the only ones who put it on. It is evident, after the appearances that Minister Ribera has had so far, that the Ministry for the Ecological Transition wants to lead without ambiguity the road map referring to plastics that must, of course, be framed in the future Spanish strategy of circular economy in order, among other things, to address the reduction of the consumption of plastics of one use and to address issues such as the problem regarding overpacking. Within the framework of this same strategy, it is certain that it is where a feasibility study of the SDR or other methods is planned, which will have to be subjected to confrontation and scrutiny of prestigious and independent experts carrying out analytical work, with the aim of having the specific consequences to address with guarantees the taking of one or other method as the definitive one. It is therefore clear that we are talking about a constant and persistent transition, but with all the necessary guarantees and the seriousness expected of the State. It is also evident that with transition we are referring to a process of rational improvement and implementation, a process that must be carried out by all institutions, in this case, particularly the municipal ones, which are, in short, the last institutions that will have to carry out the implementation of these models of recycling. The involvement of the bulk of the citizenry in the effort to establish the bases of a solid circular economy and of profit is undoubtedly - and the proponent knows it - one of the pillars that will form part of the first Plan of Action 2018-2020 of the Spanish Strategy of Circular Economy and, therefore, is essential in order to be able to advance in the hierarchy of waste thus prioritizing prevention, so it must obviously have the appropriate information for this purpose. Today there could be a broad consensus in this motion, there could even be unanimity, but just over a hundred days ago we all know where this consensus would have started to be broken: it would have started to break through Mrs Tejerina's ministry, and that is why we must point to this substantial difference from the recent past. In her first appearance, Minister Ribera explained as one of the essential elements to work in the present precisely to draw up a clear and clarified road map for plastics in Spain. And that is to be thanked because not long ago the various groups in the House had to bring initiative after initiative to force a slippery ministry not to listen deafly to the situation of plastics; that has changed and we have to review it here. As Tejerina had repeatedly been in charge of environmental issues, in the fight against climate change, Spain was anchored in the queues of the European Union, far from being able to be a locomotive, and that has also changed today with Minister Ribera. Now, despite what they can vote on this motion today, we must not forget that although the groups of Albert Rivera and Pablo Casado, the Hernández and Fernández of the radicalised right in Spain, try to seem what they are not with votes that may well be more for fear of being portrayed than by conviction, we must remember that they are the ones who end up supporting Orbán in the European Union, they end up putting eyes on Steve Bannon and his The Movement and they end up looking good to them what Salvini thinks in Italy; in short, they end up on Trump's side when he doubts about climate change. [[Applauds]] They are, in short - and I finish - the global right that will always sacrifice our planet by putting its interests aside. In spite of this, today, Mr. proposer, let us hope that there can be if not unanimity, if the maximum consensus and the disbanding of that unanimity which is portrayed by voting against the interests of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Viso Diéguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u112	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr López de Uralde, we have listened carefully to your intervention and we have to start by clarifying that from the People's Parliamentary Group we are showing today, as we have always done, our total commitment to the need to move forward with the implementation of policies that will help to preserve our environment and that compliance with the European and Spanish waste regulations will facilitate the transition to the circular economy. We agree that it is time to act, but above all, it is time to be right. We share the commitment to build a clean and sustainable productive model, and we know that we must act together in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment cannot also be the subject of fragmentation, which is sometimes advocated by certain groups in this House, and, Mr López de Uralde, you cannot always go as the one who captains the environment in this House. Citizens, I'm going to tell you something you call patches. We defend in our People's Parliamentary Group what we previously demonstrated as a government, a government that worked on the development of a Spanish circular economy strategy. That's one of the People's Group patches. By the way, gentlemen of the PSOE, it is important that the minister clarify what process she is in right now. We could also talk about another of the patches, the tasks we left behind, such as the State Waste Prevention Programme 2014-2020 or the State Waste Management Framework Plan 2016-2022, which was intended to reduce waste generation by 10% by 2022. Without going further - and we continue to talk about patches - it is worth recalling the approval four months ago of the royal decree on reducing the consumption of plastic bags or the creation of the register of producers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the environment, we talk about the People's Party. They are all initiatives along the lines of the European Union's approaches because we share the European Commission's commitment that all plastic packaging in 2030 should be reusable or easily recyclable. In addition, we share the goal of combating trash, emphasizing better knowledge of the origin of the problem, prevention and mitigation. It is very important to act in this order and to do so are key two points: education and citizen participation. This is what this group, ladies and gentlemen, stands for, acting in a coordinated way with Spanish society, with all the administrations and with our European environment. Act with order and concert, and also with rigor. That is why I would like to point out that the data handled at times by U.S. spokespersons We can with regard to recycling go away from this rigour, because they are based on partial interpretations of different types of waste. Some points contradict the data provided by the same ministry, travel partner, and Eurostat. For example, in 2015 INE and Eurostat agree to put the recycling rate of packaging in Spain at 68,41 %. I do not want to do that, ladies and gentlemen, but I do want to draw attention to the importance of being serious about this issue. It is therefore necessary to take account of the incorporation of measures stemming from the European Plastic Strategy and it is necessary for the Government to clarify as soon as possible where the plastic road map in Spain is going to run, which we were told about here today and the Minister spoke to us. By the way, Mr President-in-Office of the Socialist Group, when we talk about climate change, we need to talk about the People's Party. Let us not deviate from the situation, because you know perfectly well that it was the People's Party that kept you on a strict climate change commission, while now climate change is within Ecological Transition. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we agree to consider all the changes that have been made. We agree, Mr López de Uralde, that we should look above all at point 3, where the SDDRs are being discussed. You have to be careful, you talk about study there, but there are studies that take your feasibility for granted. It draws my attention to the fact that the rest of the groups did not notice that annotation. We also need to talk about what works, SDDRs together with GIS work and meet targets. Mr López de Uralde, let us also remember that the waste standard already allows the implementation of SDDRs. I'm done. The People's Group has proposed an amendment to this motion with the aim of making it more ambitious and bringing it closer to the purpose of social, environmental, technical and economic reality. The plastic reduction strategy is a challenge and an effort of all. It is a global problem because the environment is everyone's, its protection is everyone's and solutions must count on everyone. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Viso. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. We believe that the initiative put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party has been put forward with a clear knowledge of the problem of plastic waste and, moreover, I believe that all those who have intervened have also done so. I believe that there is an important element and that is that it is a motion that at least has made us coincide in the diagnosis and that there are very few differences around what generates this issue and to tackle this problem. Then there are the questions of: I did more, you will do less, when I was better, you now do worse, but unfortunately in politics we are used to that series of dimes and direct you. It is important that an issue like this involves at least certain unanimity or common criteria. It has been reflected, both on the part of the proposer in his question in his day last week, and on the motion, in the catastrophic situation that is generated by unrecycled or unincinerated plastic waste, that is, the lost ones would call me, the lost plastics. We can give chilling data on the millions of tons of plastic waste we generate, use and dispose of, especially those for single use. This motion proposes measures of different scopes: on the one hand, there are preventive measures, which I believe are important and which have been mentioned in point 1, which is the part that raises the most a criterion of political prevention; there are palliative measures because the damage is already caused and we have to consider what we do with what we already have; and there are other reorientations of different solutions such as, for example, studying the possible establishment of systems of return, as was done with bottles in bars or in wineries. It is a new, different approach; it is done in France and Germany in different ways and it has its problems, of course, and I think that it should also be generous with small businesses when doing that, if it were to arise. Moreover, it must be an element - which I think is important - of study and not a substitute but a complement, because other integrated systems work well and I believe that one thing does not remove the other because everything that is generating systems that allow us to have fewer and fewer waste will always be better. When I say that other systems work well, I mean the following: in Basquedi at least the recycling of plastic with 12 kilograms per inhabitant is led; 63% of the containers deposited in the yellow container were of plastic and the Basques, in 2016, were the most recycled at home in the whole of the Spanish State, with 12.6 kilograms per inhabitant average, according to an annual report by Cycloplast. As for the recycling of glass, something similar is happening, because the emission of tons of CO2 equivalent to planting 39 000 trees and preserving them for a hundred years has been avoided. The population of Euskadi collected a total of 57,978 tonnes of packaging in the green container over 2016, an increase of 1,1 % over 2015. Therefore, we can say that we are recycling and that we are doing it more and more, although the objective must be that we go to more and we fully agree with the approaches taken in this motion as to where the horizon has to be, regardless of whether we are doing it right now; regardless of whether we have a more and more conscious society, we must get to where we have to get. Plastic is fundamental in our lives, we will not deny it, and it has been a great technological advance that has allowed us to develop countless products, components and materials, but there is no doubt that after that, comfortable use and uncontrollability when getting rid of it is a real problem. We all see in the great documentaries those seas, those plastic continents that should worry us so much and it seems that we have begun to raise it. A number of amendments have been tabled, some of which the proposer has said that he has incorporated them, and we think that is correct, because that is going to generate a kind of common criterion on the part of all. I also agree that we have to go towards a society in which the circular economy is the goal, be the final horizon of this form of consumption we have, of this way of producing that we have, of which we have been forgetting for so many years and which is now the situation we have and which we must tackle if we want to leave a better society and a better world to our descendants. We are going to vote in favour of this motion and I hope that the amendments that have included the other groups will eventually form a text that is valid for all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to refer to the spokesman for Citizens. I am moved by the environmental sensitivity of the cleaning brigades, and in that sense I consider it a model. What I do not understand is how you have not included in the compromise amendment a proposal saying this, which included cleaning brigades as another method of forecasting and prevention of plastic on the beaches. On the other hand, I am not going to repeat again the harmful effects of plastic waste on health, the environment or even economic activity, as Mr López de Uralde has already made very clear in his speech. In any case, we do think it necessary to put forward some reflections that will complement what has been said, with which we very much agree. Firstly, I would like to stress that this proposal has been brought to Congress as part of an international campaign on plastic waste and its harmful effects on the sea. It is therefore clear that this campaign responds to a social demand that calls for greater international effort and coordination for its reduction. This is no longer just a problem of social awareness, but the cumulative effect of plastic waste has acquired such a large territorial and temporal dimension that it far exceeds the local framework itself. That's important to keep in mind. In any case, there is a legislative framework which we should take advantage of and which would allow us to focus on the management of plastic waste. We have legislation and regulation of the autonomous communities and municipalities on waste management, and the latest amendment of 16 May 2016 to the State Law 22/2011 on Contaminated Wastes and Soils resulted from the transposition of the Waste Framework Directive. In that sense, we have a whole body of legislation that I believe it is important to stop exploiting. We therefore share the proposal to adapt state legislation to the European Plastic Strategy contained in Directive 2018/852 on packaging and packaging waste. In fact, as Mr López de Uralde already pointed out in his question to the minister, it is not enough what is being done in the area of waste, we must go to the root of the problem and bet decisively on the reduction in origin and prevention, it is important to reduce in origin and prevention. I would say more, by reducing even existing stockpiles of accumulated plastic waste, that it is really a big problem. Why? Because the plastic residue has specific characteristics that make it difficult to manage it as a residue. On the one hand, it is a mobile residue that can move at great distances. For example, in order to avoid discharges to the sea it is necessary - it has even been pointed out - to better manage the control of discharges on the banks of the inland rivers, that means an integral management of what the river basins would be. On the other hand, plastic is omnipresent, cheap and easy to produce, but getting rid of it is a headbreaker, because it does not degrade easily. And it is that there is no mechanism in nature that is effective enough to assimilate it to the rate of use we give it. It is estimated that until the polymers that make it begin to disintegrate at the molecular level can pass a minimum of 450 years; 450 years is a major management problem. Hence the urgency of finding a solution before it is too late. Let me share a piece of news to see that not everything is lost. In 2016, a team of Japanese scientists discovered a bacterium capable of breaking down the polyethylene terephthalate molecule, a type of plastic widely used in packaging. Now, based on this discovery, researchers from the University of Portsmouth, UK, and the U.S. Department of Energy have modified the enzyme produced by the bacteria, resulting in a new molecule capable of decomposing the plastic, even better than the unicellular organism did. Not everything is lost, in any case options are appearing, but these options are appearing as the sensitivity or awareness of this problem acquires its space. Therefore, solutions exist and we must not rule out any, although in this case, and because of the magnitude of the tragedy, it requires great consensus, funding and political will, above all political will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr López de Uralde whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u118	We're working on a transactional that I'll be at the table in a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u119	All right, thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the compromise and concrete actions of the Government with the future and development of the Navarra FORAL COMMUNITY, on the basis of the agreements contained in the current law on general state budgets for the year 2018. [[LORDS ALLI AND SALVADOR]] [[File number 173/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u120	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli and Mr Salvador, concerning the commitment and concrete actions of the Government to the future and the development of the Foral Community of Navarre on the basis of the agreements provided for in the current Law on General Budgets of the State for 2018. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the group responsible for the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political trajectory of my party, the Union of the Navarro People, has always been in and out of this very clear and understandable house. As you know, we are a party that was born with democracy thirty-nine years ago and that has its origin and its centre of decision in Navarre. We are a party whose raison d'être is the defense of the external singularity of Navarre, which is as much as saying its historical and political personality and from that forality our goal is to guarantee the progress and well-being of its people with loyalty to the rest of Spain, equality, that is not uniformity, and solidarity. It is true that in these past decades in which a terrorist gang attacked Spanish society, but with more virulence to the Basque and the Navarra, we have characterized ourselves by defending freedom and opposing in Navarre its totalitarian project of fascist, xenophobic, exclusionary and impoverishing roots. Our centre, ladies and gentlemen, is always Navarre, a politically mature community that knows what it is to efficiently manage its own interests and that wants to share the benefits and also the burdens of sharing a project suggestive of common life. Navarra, ladies and gentlemen, is a founding part of Spain, as all the escudos of Navarra that recall it show in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very understandable motion in its wording, in its content and also in the philosophy that inspires it. We do not want to disown the State from basic functions and common services, we do not want to generate conflicts with which to obtain benefits that do not belong to us, we do not want institutional disloyalty to be rewarded and we do not believe that the weakness of the Government or the State is good for the parties that form the whole. At its first point we insist on something that is not new, obviously coming from UPN, which is Navarra's institutional respect as an outside community. And in the second we urge the government to fulfil those commitments that have been set out in the Budget Act 2018, giving continuity to those that require a multi-annual implementation. We therefore ask for something simple, to comply with what has been said that will be fulfilled and to honour the word given. For us, ladies and gentlemen, as important as the investment commitments contained in the budget law are commitment and respect for the status of the outside community. Moreover, we believe that forality is the best legal-political instrument to make responsible management of community affairs compatible, integration and loyal and supportive collaboration with national duties and general objectives as a country and, of course, accountability to citizens in a transparent manner. Therefore, in the first point, we have reproduced section 1 of the Reintegration and Improvement Act. We ask them for their political position. Anyone who agrees with him, it's simple, he wouldn't have to have a problem voting for it, nor should he look for excuses not to vote for it. The second point, which has three sections, calls on the Government, first, to implement the budgetary agreements aimed at the development of the foral community contained in the current Law on General Budgets of the State for 2018. It therefore includes those additional provisions which were adopted and which concern naval teachers, outlaw police and the increase in traffic examiners. I remember that these investments, these provisions, were agreed by UPN and PP and were included in the budgets and approved by Citizens, PNV, Coalition Canaria, Forum and New Canarias and, finally, to the extent that the budgets have been adopted as their own by the PSOE, we understand that also by the PSOE. In the second point, we urge to maintain the momentum and to give continuity to all the investments made and referred to in the Budgets Act, in particular those relating to infrastructures relating to the high-speed line, the Navarra Canal, free of charge of the AP15, modernization of the N121, as well as to the action of the Ebro River channel as it passes through La Ribera, whose implementation must be sufficiently financed until its completion; that is to say, not only to compromise what is going on for this year, but in the future. To the extent that strategic investments require multi-year implementation, what we want in some way is to commit the Government in particular so that it can assume them as its own. Thirdly, we urge the Government to maintain contact with all the institutional, political and social actors in Navarre who, from the respect for the Constitution and the Improvement Act, are committed to institutional collaboration, the promotion of strategic infrastructures and constant innovation within a framework of loyal cooperation and understanding. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the more people and institutions think and work on how to move Navarra forward, the better. We are aware of the institutional responsibility that we have - and that we do not have it now - and that is why our duty with Navarra here and now is above all to remind the central and foral administrations of the need to comply with the commitments and also to insist that we are prepared to accompany them and to help, if they do so, in those matters - others that are not included in our initiative - of their competence that can improve the quality of life of shipwrecks, as it could not otherwise be. I thank the Basque Nationalist Party for having tabled an amendment which, in its final part - because in the initial part we obviously prefer our text - introduces some interesting news. We appreciate it and, as you imagine, we are following it specifically, but we note that it is not preceded by a prior political agreement and its actual enforceability - the possibility of being monetizable, if I may say so - is not mature enough as the commitments contained in this motion are. As the saying goes, if I may, bird in hand. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. I suppose there will be a broad consensus today on the demands of this motion. Why? Because there are very advanced investments, because they were approved by many groups, we have the Minister's word, the commitment of the Government and the group that supports it and, as I say, funding approved by most groups. So I think this is a special political moment; I don't know if I dare call it sweet. There have been budgets approved by a majority that have been adopted by a different majority and, therefore, there are many groups that could accept this. Furthermore, I would like to insist that these demands, these requests - the content of this motion - connect with the hopes of thousands of shipwrecks who want all of them to be fulfilled. I therefore believe that this could now be a good practical reason to ask the groups to join this bet for a better future for all shipwrecks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. In defence of the amendment made by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u123	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today UPN presents to us a motion resulting from an inquiry concerning the government's commitment to the agreements envisaged in the general budgets of 2018. So far everything should be right. The problem arises in the background, in the approval of the general budgets of 2018. Today you propose that the implementation of the items of the general budgets of 2018 in favor of Navarra be guaranteed, although - and let me tell you this - you have the unfavoriteness to state in your statement of reasons that these agreements are the result of the collaboration between the People's Party and the Union of the Navarro People; and in retrospect you tell us that you have, among other things, the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. But in turn they let it be seen that this group, the Basque Group, did not even make any attempt to introduce or register amendments in favour of Navarra, which is not true. Hey, what would young people say, what are you guys doing? Do not confuse citizens; we have always tabled and supported all those amendments beneficial to Navarre and have not prohibited anyone from doing so, unlike you who did prevent the Basque Group from incorporating any amendments for the benefit of Navarre. You, who during the processing of the budgets have not known or, rather, did not want to distinguish between the partisan struggle and the interests of the shipwrecks and shipwrecks, and now you want not only to become adales of those agreements, but also as guarantors of their execution, to ensure their execution. Of course, it is that you believe that Navarra is only UPN and do not recognize that the Basque, and the PNV is also Navarra, and that it also defends the interests of the citizens of Navarra. The only thing you do is always talk in the past. You vetoed the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Party that was negotiating with Navarra and conditioned that veto to your support of the State's General Budgets. Where, then, is that ironic defense of the interests of all and all of the navarras that you say you are doing and that you are now trying to sell through the presentation this motion, when back in April, when we negotiated the budgets, you were willing not to support or, rather, to vote against budgets that would benefit all of Navarra if they were presented by the Basque Government? Let it be clear that your group vetoed amendments for infrastructure, for example on the Itoiz reservoir, on the Oroz tail dam, and also for the rehabilitation of the Tudela hull simply because it presented them to this Basque Group. Their initiatives, feeling so much, are so sectarian that they don't even give a shit about Navarra's own skills, his core of forality, just to look like. And it is that, look, you have agreed investments for Navarra, yes, but basically from a partisan prism; investments that were mostly for those municipalities of the Ribera in which it ruled casually UPN. Where's the rest of the territory? And besides, for what? Basically for sports facilities, items relating to skills that are either municipal or foral impulse. Therefore, you who tell us so much about forality, where is that forality for you or what is forality for you? You say you listen to the Navarro people. I'd tell them only a part of the Navarro people. They care very little about Navarra's defense and, of course, his furies. I would also like to say to you that it is not true that these investments are necessary for Navarra to continue with its level of well-being. They are important, yes, but the level of welfare of shipwrecks and shipwrecks does not depend on investments in the general budgets of the State, but on the management of its own self-government, its competences, as it has done. And it is already proving in Navarre that there is another much better way to do things and do other things. Once again, and unlike you, we are not going to put any glue; moreover, we will be proactive in implementing the agreements of the General Budgets of the State for Navarre because they involve investments for the outside community, because they involve a benefit for Navarre. And for that this group - I have to tell you - does not need any motion, because Navarra's defense goes in our own DNA. We don't need demagogy like you have. In addition, you are asking the Government to implement the amendments. It's kind of contradictory, isn't it? Because, on the other hand, they are voting against that government over and over again. With the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group, they have the opportunity to demonstrate that they defend Navarra's forality, which they are in favour of this Congress urging the Government to reaffirm its commitment to the legal and political status of Navarra, in accordance with what the Navarras and the Navarras decide freely and democratically at every moment. You mentioned the Lorafna, yes, but it must be said that this law has not been subject to citizen endorsement. And it also tells us to ask the government to ensure that the financially sustainable investments proposed by the Navarra institutions in the implementation of the surplus of 2017 can be realized, all with the consensus and agreement of all the political, social and institutional actors in Navarre who are affected by the investments of the General Budgets of the State. Of course, we do not understand that they do not accept the proposed amendment, especially in its final point, if what they say is to defend the interests of shipwrecks and shipwrecks and their forality. Therefore, if that is the case, as it will be, we will not be able to vote in favour of that motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u125	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Mr.Savior, I believe that in the seat of your party, in the square of the Prince of Viana, you should change the motto and put something like: Concrete and out, which is more or less what you have been defining for a lot of time. And I say this about the outsides because I thank you very much for the kind of constitutional law with which you have been delighting us at the beginning of your intervention, but it corresponds to an attempt to solemnize the obvious, and the obvious is that there is a legal status and that that legal status exists, is fulfilled and is working in one way or another. The danger of his whole approach is not what he says, it is what he does not say. You are the only one who pretends to fossilize that legal status and what you're telling us is that you don't like any other legal status that could arise, in this case by Navarra. Because I want to remind you of one thing, and that is that when you accept the Constitution - the Constitution you did not vote on - it is understood that you accept the Constitution in all its terms - as it is said recently, you cannot accept it in part - and that I suppose includes the first additional provision and the fourth transitional provision. The first one says - and you defend it - that rights are pre-existing to the Constitution itself and the fourth one establishes the right of Navarra's citizens to change their legal status by free and democratic voting. If this is the case, why do you ask that Congress take a stand on something that you claim should not stand? Can you explain it to me? Because this implies the maximum inconsistency of what you propose. In those terms, you ask that the Budgets Act be complied with - very well - but you have a problem and it is that what you have agreed did it behind absolutely the back of the political and social majority of Navarre in the territory. They have done so without anyone, and I am not speaking with the parties in the Navarra sphere anymore, but often against clearly resolutions of the Navarra Parliament and resolutions of the Navarra Government itself. In that regard, what you have done and have been doing for a long time is trying to take advantage of your privileged situation with the late People's Party Government in order to obtain a relevance that you no longer have. Obviously, there are some games we might have agreed on, but I will stop at a few points. He's got... I'm gonna shut up. It is relevant that you now speak of the gratuitousness of the AP-15. Do you know what this is, Mr. Savior? [[Show some documents]] These are all the minutes of the Parliament of Navarre, where this issue has been discussed, and you, apart from having successive presidents of Audenasa of your party, have argued that this gratuity was not a priority, nor was it requested by the people of the Ribera, nor was it of course economically and financially sustainable. Do you know when you change your mind? When they lose the Government; when they lose the Government suddenly this is a horror and it has to be solved because it cannot be that the people of the Ribera are discriminated against. Read it, because I have read it carefully and the truth is that the level of demagogy and hypocrisy that you have manifested with this subject - as with others - is of considerable height. [[Applauds]] And not only that, but that we can also put it with the high-speed train, a train that in Navarre is known as the stretch that goes from nowhere to nowhere, that is not connected to Europe, is not connected to the Mediterranean corridor and also involves simply throwing money into a project of 2004 that the European Commission itself already says is ineffective, because even if you call it one way or another it is still a high-speed line that is not going to move goods and that is doubtfully profitable for Navarre society. Therefore, and in conclusion, I advise you to speak with the entities that really represent the people of Navarre. The last example is the new polysport that you propose for Tudela and that is undefined: it has no place or anything in the style and you pose it against the city itself, whose majority you want in a sensible way is to reform the current polysports, polysports that you did not keep during your long years of government in the city since it was built, more than thirty years ago. Therefore, do not pose impossible things. Dialogue with the political and social majority; if so, we can have a minimum opportunity to build together a Navarra that really meets the goals of progress demanded by the citizenry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u127	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Salvador. Let me begin by telling you that we could have saved ourselves perfectly last week's inquiry and this motion, because you reiterate the respect for Navarra's legal-political status and compliance with the laws - in this case, the Budget Act of 2018 - and, frankly, I did not need to have brought these initiatives to say this, which are pure obviations. I don't know if they had any more ideas or anything else to offer Navarra to fill in its quota of interpellations to the Government than to bring these repetitions. President Pedro Sánchez has already committed himself both to respect for Navarra's legal situation and to the fulfilment of the 2018 budgets in his intervention as a candidate in the motion of censure, and Minister Montero reiterated to him last week that they are not the budgets of the socialist government but that we assume them and that we will execute them, as responsible government with the laws that this Parliament approves. But I must point out to you some of the many inconsistencies in which your political group, Mr Salvador, is involved. The first is that you come to demand that this Government, which has been operating for barely three months, make investments, but you have been ruling in Navarre in a virtually uninterrupted way over the past twenty-five years and have done absolutely nothing, knowing that they were competences that corresponded to the Government of Navarre. The N-121, a road which is the responsibility of the Autonomous Community of Navarre, needs to be modernised and improved for many years. And with regard to the so-called gratuitousness of the AP-15, I would like to reiterate that it was you who, after twenty years of granting this motorway, extended it for another thirty years. The solution to AP-15 is the reversal of its grant and not a one-off toll subsidy for a year, which is what your budget amendment proposes. I ask you where you, gentlemen of UPN, have been for these twenty-five years and where the People's Party has been for the past six years for not having made these infrastructures that you now demand of the Socialist Party government. Second incoherence. Mr Alli said last week that you have tabled amendments for the benefit of all shipowners. I remind you that subsidies for sports facilities are for eighteen municipalities - what a coincidence! - presided over by a mayor of UPN. I ask you: do the rest of Navarre's municipalities not also have the right to decent sports facilities or do you move solely for electoral interests? [[Mr. Alli Martínez makes negative gestures]] You propose an amendment of 2 million for a respectable project of the private university of Navarre, but you forget the projects and needs of the students of the public university or UNED. Who do you govern and who do you think about? In a part of the shipwrecks or in all the shipwrecks? They're not our budgets, but we're going to execute them. Thirdly, the third major incoherence, your co-worker, Mr Alli, in the motion of censure that was debated in this House insisted that he wanted elections now, and you now come here to ask the socialist government to implement the 2018 budget. On Wednesday and Thursday last week his secretary of organization put on a tweet asking for elections already. Where's UPN? Is it in support of the continuity of this government in executing budgets or is it in the process of calling for elections now? Because honestly blowing and snoring at the same time know it's impossible. [[Applauds]] Fourth incoherence - there is more, but the time limit makes it impossible to continue - you have twice voted against the new path of objectives, of stability of this government and at the same time call for continuity in the budgets of the coming years for these infrastructures in Navarre. You know that the 2018 budgets came to this House addicted because they were not credible. I do not say this, all the national and international financial authorities say that the deficit is going to be significantly greater than that of the previous Spanish Government. Therefore, if you, like us, want to continue the Navarra Canal, the high-speed train or the unfolding of the A-15, help us solve the new path of stability and stop joining the People's Party and Citizens in putting obstacles. Mrs Sagastizabal, with regard to the amendment to the PNV, I would like to say that this Government is going to put on its side everything possible to find a way out of the financially sustainable investments that the Government of Navarre has proposed and what we call for is a loyal, open and permanent dialogue between the two governments - the Government of Spain and the Government of Navarre - to find solutions for the viability of these investments. Finally, Mr de UPN, you know that as much as the government's will is to meet the budgets, there are two problems. One, we're six months from the end of the year. You will know why your members of the People's Party took six months, with a sufficient budgetary majority, to bring the 2018 budgets here. Institutional collaboration is also needed. I ask you where are the agreements of eight municipalities presided over by mayors of UPN that two months after receiving the letter from the Ministry of Culture and Sport have not yet responded with their proposals for agreements. I would ask you, instead of reiterating here with these interventions the implementation of the budgets, to move your UPN mayors from these peoples and to contribute the agreements that have not contributed so far. Gentlemen of UPN, if you - I finish - want these strategic works, you have it very easy: to continue with your votes to the Socialist Party government in this House and also to facilitate a socialist government from May 2019 in Navarre, because when there is a socialist government in Spain and a socialist government in Navarre it will be when we have the assurance that these investments go ahead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to support the motion put forward by the Members of the UPN calling for the fulfilment of the commitments made with Navarra in the State General Budgets for 2018, simply because the State General Budgets approved by the People's Party Government are good for Spain and, as in the People's Party we have a very clear idea of Spain, we think that what is good for Navarra is good for Spain too. These General State Budgets were approved with the consensus, ladies and gentlemen, of seven political groups of different signs. As a result of the dialogue, the negotiation, it was possible to carry out budgets by a Government of the People's Party, I repeat, with the capacity to dialogue, a Government that was elected at the polls and supported by the Spanish, and with a parliamentary majority sufficient to be able to govern without being hostage to the interests of independenceists and populists. A government, therefore, at the service of the general interest of the Spanish and of Spain, and not the other way around, not at the service of party interests, as sadly we are contemplating with Mr Sánchez's socialist government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about Navarre but the same could be said of my land, of Cantabria, or of any of the territories of Spain, because the general budgets of the State approved by the People's Party government are good for the whole of its territories and that is why the People's Parliamentary Group is going to demand, of course, their compliance. However, in reviewing the Minister's speech, we are very afraid that there is not much political will to fulfil those commitments contained in the budgets. Moreover, the minister justified her vote against these budgets on the grounds that much of the measures contained in these budgets are anti-social. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has approved general state budgets for 2018 that are the most social in history. That is why we do not understand that statement. It is also surprising that this statement comes from the Socialist Government itself, which has tried to deceive the citizens by passing on as its own measures which were adopted in this budget and which have a great social impact. [[Applauds]] It seems that socialists have taken the pleasure of copying this, but as long as they copy the good, as long as they copy the recipes of the People's Party, the policies of the People's Party, everything will be fine. Because can we call it antisocial, as the minister did, a 3% minimum pension increase, for example? Can you call it antisocial to increase paternity leave from four to five weeks? Or can it be called antisocial to lower the IRPF to work income below EUR 18 000? Can it be antisocial to benefit lower income workers with less taxes, benefiting more than three and a half million taxpayers? Or is it more social, according to the socialist government, to raise the tax to diesel, which pays more than 17 million Spanish users, many of them with medium and low incomes and not precisely rich? Socialists, of course we have very different concepts from what is social and what is not, but we are working to improve the welfare of most Spaniards and not to tax them, as you seem to be prepared to do from the government. Please also explain to officials, who received a 5% reduction in their salaries, that these budgets now show a minimum increase of three years, and also agreed with the public service unions, of 6.9%. Or to those parents who are going to receive a check for 1,000 euros to be able to reconcile their working and family life you explain that this measure is not social. We can add many more measures that you too like and aim at, such as the fall in the VAT on cinema, the largest budget item for scholarships, more budgets for dependency policies and, above all, more money for autonomous communities and municipalities, that is, more money for the social welfare of all Spaniards. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say from the People's Parliamentary Group that we are satisfied with everything we have achieved together, because with the right economic and fiscal policy and the effort of all Spaniards we have managed to generate economic growth and employment and we therefore have more resources from the tax revenues that allow us to approve these budgets for 2018, the most social budgets in history, which translate into concrete measures that benefit millions of Spanish families. And we succeeded, as I said before, in dialogue, negotiating with other groups represented in this House, including UPN. Because these budgets are good for the navarros, for the cantabres, for the madrileños, for the Catalans and for all the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of this motion because the items in the budgets for Navarra, as I said, are good for Navarra and therefore also good for Spain. They are two sides of the same coin, the same as I feel deeply Spanish because I am deeply cantabra. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to require you to comply with these General State Budgets, of course, because the best thing the Socialist Government can do is also copy our budgets. Keep copying or call elections now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. In the turn of accepting amendments, I ask Mr Salvador Armendáriz whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u131	We shall vote on the original text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u132	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Government's Policy on Measures for the Social, Economic and Professional Recognition of Teachers. [[File number 173/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u133	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's policy on measures for the social, economic and professional recognition of teachers. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the sessions held in the failed social and political pact for education, boycotted by the Socialist Party and its governing partners, the need to substantially improve the teaching profession and its social, economic and professional recognition was highlighted. Each and every one of the experts, except for some opinion - extravagant, by the way - emphasized this issue, making very good ideas, proposals and suggestions. Let us remember, for example, the intervention of Mr. Tiana, now Secretary of State for Education, and what he called giving form to the teaching profession; of Mr. Fernández Enguita, on strengthening and revaluing the profession; what the collective Atlantis or the Cotec Foundation thought; what was exposed by participants such as López Rupérez, Moreno García, Loranca Irueste or García Suárez. That is why we are surprised by the scant interest of the Socialist Group and the Government in making changes and improvements to what everyone agrees. This inaction is even more strange when many of the proposals that our group is presenting today were also raised in the electoral programme with which the Socialist Party came to these last elections. For example, on page 8 of the report, it proposed the adoption of a statute for teaching staff, improvements in their working conditions, continuing training and even a system of access to teaching similar to that of the medical profession. As you can see, the melody sounded good, but it seems that your partners have gotten their hands on the score and introduced discordant notes. Changes in education, as you know, must be addressed through planning, being aware that their results cannot be evaluated until at least a decade later. That is why the role of the teacher in a Spain that faces its educational, social and economic challenges is so important. To change things and equip the quality education system, we must be willing to change them, and it seems to us that the Government, either because it does not want, cannot or does not leave it, is not prepared to take the measures that our education system and our faculty need and demand with insistence. Last week, the Minister of Education and Vocational Training acknowledged the need to address the quality of the teaching profession, but instead of taking advantage of and endorsing the reflections of the experts on the educational pact, she chose to put forward a forum for reflection and discussion. As Napoleon said, if you want the problem to persist, create a commission. This demonstrates the Government's lack of interest in the faculty and its aversion to providing it with adequate resources and tools. In addition, in this exercise of political filibusterism to which we are accustomed, the Socialist Party has very solemnly sold us the reversal of the rights of teachers, rights which have already been reversed almost entirely by the Government of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, remember, there has not been a more brutal attack on teachers in Spain than the Royal Decree of 20 May 2010, Zapatero Decree, by which you reduced teachers' salaries by 5%, frozen their payroll for 2011, reduced the replacement rate to 10% for subsequent job offers and abolished the transitional partial retirement scheme. That was an attack on the dignity of the teacher, making him pay for the waste party to which he was never invited. By the way, the minister, in this coin of events in which the Government has become, also announced a strategic plan for the specific training of teaching staff to reduce failure and drop out of school. He did not seem to have learned that with the People's Party government failure and abandonment have experienced a historical reduction from 30.3 % to 18.3 %, and over the past four years, 6.5 points. He previously said that changes in education require a long period of gestation, and since 2000, all scientific publications relating to teachers agree to point out the relevant role they play in the quality of the results of pupils and, by extension, in the educational system as a whole. In Finland, the measures adopted in the 1970s were successful in PISA in 2000 and 2004. According to the OECD, the good results of Portugal are due to the great preparation of teachers and their training, one of the most demanding in the European Union. Andreas Schleicher, in his book World Class, recently published by the OECD, recalls that the best education systems have in common to give priority to the quality of teachers. The scientific literature available, as you can appreciate, is quite extensive in this sense. Finally, it is enough to recall the Eurydice report, entitled The Teaching Career in Europe: Access, Progression and Support, which highlights the great concern of countries in our environment in developing policies aimed at providing effective support to teachers, increasing their professionalism and improving their status. The countries that decided to undertake in-depth reforms of their education systems and, in particular, the improvement of the quality of teaching staff have seen how they have been placed among the top ten education systems in the world. This is why it is so important to articulate a career based on principles of merit, equality and capacity, where evaluation, training, incentives and promotion are part of an integrated model that is a priority in the Government's educational policy. We consider it essential to draw up a draft law on the general management of the teaching profession, which envisages this new system of access to the profession, and a basic design of the professional career, which considers evaluation, training, incentives, promotion and professional development as fundamental elements. Spain needs to put in place a new model of selection and training at the national level for access to the teaching function similar to that of education. Today, Spanish health is the third in the world and its professionals are recognized and valued. The health mir adopted in its day has been decisive to achieve these quotas and Spain today reaps the fruits of that initiative. Why can't something similar be done in education? Let's start to look like it. In education, changes are not seen in the short but in the medium and long term, and it is therefore so important that decisions are taken as soon as possible. And, ladies and gentlemen, the government can go hand in hand with demagogy, betting on resentment, revisionism or the attack on freedom of education, but there is another alternative. The alternative is to take a path focused on improving the quality of our teachers through this draft law on general management of the teaching profession as presented today and offered to them by the People's Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez. In defence of the amendments put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u136	President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow it will be exactly half a year and twenty days since Pedro Sánchez dynamitated the educational pact with a pilgrim excuse that even the PSOE does not fulfil in those places where it governs and generating for the second time a huge frustration in public opinion and Spanish citizenship. And I say for the second time because for the first time it was the People's Party that had not signed Angel Gabilondo's educational pact attempt; two missed opportunities that citizenship should and cannot forget, because, look, in education when we don't move forward we are going backwards. The degradation of the education system is endemic, and serve as an example of the things we have seen recently in the newspapers in this country. I could mention many issues, but the immobilism of years has caused us to have an obsolete curriculum that does not meet the educational needs of boys and girls. The lack of generosity and lack of project have made us have a system with terrible territorial inequalities. The relegation of certain tools, such as the High Educational Inspectorate, has now made our children helpless in the face of post-truths, lack of rigour or even contempt or constitutional violations. For years now, the educational system, whether we want to see it or not, is taking a dangerous drift, and I say a dangerous drift, first of all, because there is a partisan debate in which certain forces like to draw from time to time the smoke curtains of the concerted and the religion, the concerted and the religion, truffled with concessions to nationalisms, but also with a policy of patching where they gloat in mediocrity. Gentlemen, it is not enough in education that we do not back down on the indicators, because time runs against us. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we have been saying for a long time that fundamental changes are needed. One of these fundamental changes that needs to be made is in the faculty, indeed. The teachership is, together with the studentship, the soul of the educational system. In this country we have commendable teachers who have made the system survive many of the envites even provoked by politicians and who, however, have not been served as they deserved for years by bipartisanism. Today, there are incumbents and interims who feel poorly recognized and who do not have the facilities to carry out their work. Two hundred thousand teachers are going to retire in this decade and we have a golden opportunity, because generational replacement gives a wonderful opportunity to make changes. We have it clear; see if we have it clear that it was we who presented the proposal for the change in the selection of the faculty, but we also negotiated the change in the career. Nor do we agree with the system of opposition that is currently in place. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I am surprised by the proposal you are making today, because it clashes with the insulting inaction your Government has had on educational issues; insulting inaction not only because you did not comply with the investiture agreement, where you were committed to developing the educational DIR, but also because you have done a terrible lay-off of functions that I think you can even have a painful meaning. [[applause]] I am going to take advantage here and I am going to answer some of the colleagues who have made allusions before, when we have put forward the bill, and I am going to explain why it is necessary. In May of this year, the very honorable councillor d ́Ensenyament, Mr. Méndez de Vigo, drew a call with 155 to hire three thousand teachers in Catalonia who did not meet the teacher's master's requirement. That's right, they had the Catalan C1. It is a call that I am not making public, but that is denounced before the Dispute-Administrative Committee by the CSIF and that I consider that, moreover, it seriously violates the principles of quality and equality that you propose at the moment. I have asked the current Minister of Education what she is going to do with this call, which is presumably irregular, and she has not answered me. I guess he's looking for the answer, like he's looking for other things. Look, gentlemen of the People's Party, we believe in improving the quality of the teaching system and we are going to deal with you and support this proposal, but we believe it with words and facts, with the opposition and if we were ever a government, and we want it to come forward. All that has to do with improving the quality of teaching staff, improving their job guarantees, will have our support. Why? Because that means ensuring the quality of the education system and the quality of the education system is never going to be higher than the quality of its teachers and pupils. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Again the level of little shame of the People's Party brings us here an initiative that, moreover, contradicts the performance of when it was in government. It is an initiative that in its title says that it aims to seek measures for the social, economic and professional recognition of teachers. Acknowledgment of the professorship, the People's Party? Really? The People's Party of the Cuts, which closed public classrooms, which gave money to the concertee while taking it away from the public, that of the replacement rate; the People's Party which froze the teachers' extra pay; the People's Party which wants to make lists of good teachers and bad teachers depending on whether or not we like what they count in the classes; the People's Party which increased student ratios in the schools; the People's Party which pursues chair freedom; the People's Party which also accuses the teacher of indoctrination. You don't want to recognize anything, you want to make it difficult for teachers to access the Public Service. My question is, are you going to do the same with private and concerted schools? Or the privates who do whatever they want so they can keep putting their little friends? Are they going to do the same? Are they also going to make access difficult in private or will they be able to do what they want? You don't want to recognize anything at all. In addition, I suppose this so-called new formation proposed by the People's Party will want some bodies known to you too, such as the University of King Juan Carlos, because they will also be able to help decide what is given to them and what is not to the teachers. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if you want to recognise the faculty socially, economically and professionally, the best thing you can do is to keep a little time in the opposition, at least for a few years, the ones needed to recover the public education service, free of charge and of quality that you have destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Your Honor, I will try to explain to you why we are going to vote against your initiative. We're going to do it basically for three reasons. First of all, competition. We cannot present an initiative here that does not make reference to such an important thing as it is the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has exclusive competence in the management of the issue addressed in this initiative. There is no mention of those competent institutions in this respect, and that surprises us and it also smells rare. Second of all, because it's a patch. This House tried to address a thorough reform of the state education system and failed in the attempt for the political interests that you know perfectly well. Even we, who came here to destroy Spain, put better intentions than some of the great countrymen who are in this House. It was not for us that the state pact for education went to hell. And thirdly, because it does not solve any of the problems that have been raised for a long time. Planting a micro-reform when the problem is of such dimensions that it needs a macro-reform does not lead us anywhere. That is why we cannot but reject this initiative and invite them once again - it is neither the fruit nor the merit of the Generalitat de Catalunya nor of my political party, so I am not tired of repeating it to you - to take a look at the Ara es demà document, the fruit of the debate, which the Consell Escolar de Catalunya published a while ago and which you know, because in the subcommittee of the State Pact for Education they were presented; they asked to be translated into Spanish and made easier for them and have it their lords to take a look when they deem it appropriate. I insist, it is not our merit, with which I think it is good to remember that the work is done and that if you want to take a look and get some idea of that document it will be a good idea. Mrs Martín, I don't suppose you were commenting on me about the minister, because if the most honourable councillor was called Mendez de Vigo, you should ask that bench, too. In any case, I do not ask that the level of C1 pass over all things, what I ask is that it is compatible to demonstrate and to accredit a level of Catalan with having the master if it is necessary to have it. That tells Mr. Mendez de Vigo, not us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief. We started this afternoon with a misconception and I think we're gonna end up with another, but good. In any case, in this race that you have with each other to see who is more Spanish, who is more national, who is more unifying, who is more standardizing, who is more centralizing and who lays two hard eggs more - there you are - all you are doing is to use education for your interests, for your objectives - not only electoral, also others who are sometimes worse - and those who come out harmed are precisely those people you say you are addressing and those you say you are trying to benefit. In this case I do not know whether to address the People's Party or both, because it has been a kind of unison, and the music that is playing is as much as it gives me the same thing to one as to the other. Obviously, not in line with the demeanors that the People's Party has put forward, the representative of Citizens says: and let us not forget more things that are still being questioned, such as the High Inspection, etc. What is said vulgarly, and I have already quoted it before: two more hard eggs. What this motion that the People's Party has tabled obvious from the beginning, although Mrs Moneo said earlier that not with her head - she is not now - to the representative of the PDECAT, is something that is called a competition field. And I'm not just talking about what the People's Party, I'm not going to say subterfuges, but it's about an interpretation of the law that's very much helped by certain courts, it makes itself competent to the state, it's that many issues about how teachers should be trained are the competence of the autonomous communities, and of course, as you don't like that to be the competence of the autonomous communities, you make up this story of the educational mire, as if health, access to medicine and access to education were something similar, when they have nothing to do with it. Because in that educational perspective that you pose, how do certain autonomous communities, certain societies, communities, peoples and nations that have their own culture and language remain? On the basis of the criteria already defended by the citizens at the first point in the morning and with which you agree, how is this motion that you have brought not going to be logical consequences? Obviously, if you accept that, automatically this and much more. Therefore, we skip that field, we skip the singularities and the differences that exist - because there are differences - and we skip what has been peacefully developed so far, without there being any need to alter the henhouse, when peacefully - I repeat again - have worked parallel educational systems in the Spanish State, such as Catalan, Basque, etc. I therefore have to understand that there are other objectives here. The goal is: An autonomous state was made in which education was the competence of the autonomous communities and we do not like that some autonomous communities have that tool in their hand. Why? Because, of course, we do not like how education is carried, even if societies such as Catalan or Basque are enchanted with their educational system. Moreover, this motion is a succession of inventions, improvisations and contradictions, even in some matters that you yourself raise, which revolutionizes in the lowest sense of the word certain issues that are already established in the educational sphere. The Lomce is still there and what started there continues. We, as you well know, got up from that table because we saw that it was a table that wanted to work on a misconception, and the misconception was not to respect what, for example, we in Euskadi have as our competence in teaching, which not only says the statute, but also says the Constitution itself. Therefore, in view of this lack of homogenization, in view of those criteria that do not take into account at all the competences of the autonomous communities, in view of what they want to do with the teacher with this famous national test - it puts them to a hundred the theme of the national test -, in view of these issues, of course, we have no other remedy and, coherently and consciously, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor. [[Rumors]] I'd beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u144	Good night. It is an impossible goal to reconcile, but let's go to what we have to do, to work, and it seems to be to work for education. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u145	Wait a minute, Mr. Olòriz. Ladies and gentlemen, I would beg your silence. The more interruptions there are, the later we finish the plenary session. It is a long plenary session and, please, I would ask you to focus on the debate. Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u146	Thank you. For more than thirty years, everyone who asks me what I am dedicated to receives an invariable answer: I am a teacher. In addition, I am delighted to be so, because I believe that the academic world has provided me with some degrees of freedom that would not offer me virtually any other dedication that I know of. But it's not all easy. Being a teacher sometimes means not having the necessary means and often means being questioned. What do the teachers want? The same as this speaker: respect. I don't know if you realize that you are in a fish tank, that you look at them and that what you do or stop doing - those magnificent backs I see talking in the hallway - is also a way to educate or a way to seduce. Teachers want respect, they want means, they want to be allowed to work and they want confidence; also Catalan teachers, who are just as good as those from other parts of the state and not that they should be usual suspects. We want them to let us work. We want the laws to have to do with the goals we have: an education for the 21st century, but made with the limbs that exist in education. We can make a new basket, but the wieners have them, or so I thought. However, today we are not talking about education. We're not talking about teachers today. Today we are talking about a pretext for throwing the mess at the head of the opposition to the Government and the Government to the opposition. We are tired of education being used as a pretext, and that is why, despite what is coming out here today, schools will be opened tomorrow morning and our children and our children will be given the best possible quality. It is true that some of you may take your children to Switzerland, Britain or elsewhere, and therefore your concern is in another educational model, but the vast majority of us - and I suppose also of you - are concerned about the educational model we have. What do we want? We want Wert not to ride again. It is true, here it was said, that there have been times when consensus has been broken. On 29 November 2013, the Lomce was approved. I thought that Wert would not ride again, but I am afraid that these last two years he did not go to Paris, but he was also present here because, while we were discussing the future, the present has been the same without the appropriate and necessary changes. We believe that change is possible. We believe that these two pages of proposals can be summed up in one sentence: centralization is not the solution. The solution would be investment, consensus, autonomy and confidence. Without investment there is no solution, without consensus there is no renewal, without autonomy there is no creativity and without confidence the only thing there is authoritarianism. The motion will pass today and the school will continue to work. I will end up talking about a professor who died eight years ago and who left us in this Congress an unforgettable experience: José Antonio Labordeta. He said he was a man without more: 'Remember me, / like a beaten tree, / like a wounded bird, / like a man without more'. Leave the teachers alone, give them the means, let's make a real educational pact and start at the base, which is autonomy. The pacts are possible. Politics does not come to school because school is something much more important than politics by a few. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u148	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is presenting us with a motion for the social and professional recognition of teachers. I suppose they do because the paper endures everything, but it is still surprising that you come up to this rostrum as an adalid of education, when you are responsible for expelling 25,000 teachers from our classrooms and for truncating many lives and careers of young teachers. Far from assuming any responsibility or reviewing positions, the People's Party once again points to the teacher as the origin of all evils. Thus, the problem of our education system is not low investment, almost 2 points below the European average; the problem is also not the cut-off policy, which increased the ratio of students per classroom while staffing down; the problem for you is always the workers, and in this case a teacher who is considered untrained or unmotivated, and to whom one must always apply a twist more nut. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you return to the burden with the so-called educational mir, which has nothing to do with attracting the best dossiers and but with introducing a new race of obstacles to further precarious the first years of teaching and, above all, to remove the interim teacher. Because what is being raised with this motion, in essence, is to introduce a precarious working figure in the Public Service to allow temporary teachers to be replaced by low-cost teachers. Gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know why this motion is not credible? Because if it were to recognize the work that our teachers are doing, they would have done something to reduce interinity, which affects one in four teachers. If they really wanted to take care of our teachers they wouldn't have been firing them in June to hire them in September and save themselves the summer months. At this point, they can't fool anyone. It was you, together with your fellow citizens, who contributed most to the discrediting and harassment of teachers in this country. They have come to say - and it is very serious - that in public school they indoctrinate, and as they said it they had the defachability of multiplying concerts and subsidies for private schools of ultra-conservative ideatry. [[Applauds]] But going back to the subject we are being asked, are we saying that the system of access to the teaching function is perfect or that it cannot be improved? No, you can reform a lot of things. For example, the correction criteria of the opposition courts should be published; the agendas of the specialties, which are from the 1990s and in many cases do not contain current content, should be renewed; a support plan for new teachers could be put in place to allow for a guided practice of interim teachers during the first year of exercise. As I say, you can do a lot of things, but what you can't do is laugh at people. Before you come here to ask for social and professional recognition for teachers, you should explain to us what happened in the last oppositions to high school teachers so that more than 10% of the places offered are empty. Do you want to improve the system of access to the teaching profession? They can start with their autonomous communities respecting the efforts of the opponents and ensuring that no teaching space offered is deserted. On the other hand, they propose in their motion to strengthen the systems of continuing training of teachers and say: as a privileged strategy for the improvement of teaching and learning. Well, we can agree, it can be a sensible thing; in fact, the countries with the highest quality in teaching provide abundant theoretical and practical training to teachers from the first to the last day of their profession. But of course, all this requires investment and requires shielding public education from cuts, which is just what you didn't do. Now they can claim teacher training, but the fact is that during their years of government they have cut that line, that program by 90%. It's just that not six months ago we had the budget debate, in which you rejected the United We can invest more in teacher training. For all this - and as we said - this motion is not credible and we cannot support it. In any case, I would recommend to the lords of the People's Party that, if they really seek the social and professional recognition of teachers, they begin by supporting, for example, the repeal of Royal Decree 14/2012, which carried the crisis on the teachers' backs and which continues to have very negative effects on the quality of education today. Finally, I would ask you to stop targeting teachers in this country, because the problem is not teachers; the problem has been legislators who have never believed in public education and have not bothered to cut it down or mistreat it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that they do not fail to surprise us in educational matters, and this is not exactly a pleasant surprise. After years of politics against the faculty, today we are being brought up with this motion on the teaching career that repeats a debate on the educational DIR, an issue that, by the way, the Citizens' Group has brought to us recently. I am going to recommend that you do not compete with the Citizens Group in education, because the truth is that it does not favor anyone, let alone the education system. This motion has nothing new, because it addresses the teaching career but with measures that already exist, so the only novel objective we have found is its intention to remove the educational competences to the autonomous communities, which is an insult to the autonomous communities, to their management and to the autonomous state in general. [[Applauds]] Let's start with a review of the People's Party's performance on faculty in recent years. Former Minister Wert in 2012 put in place a demolition plan against the faculty that envisaged since the reduction of more than 20,000 teachers, increase of teaching hours, increase of the ratio in the classrooms and also of the days to cover replacements, an excessive control and penalization of medical discharges, reduction of doubles, of attention to diversity, of cohabitation classes to combat conflictivity until a long time and so on. By the way, the measures to combat the failure and drop out of school to which you have referred, as you have said, Mr Pérez, take more than ten years to become effective, so do not hang a medal because they are the effect of socialist policies in our years of government. [[The Vice-President, Navarro Garzón, took the Chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all these years have been truly harmful to the faculty, to their working conditions, and there has been not a single gesture by the People's Party to reverse these cuts; there has been not a single gesture to prestige or to dignify the teaching function. By the way, this government in just a hundred days has already begun to reverse those cuts, so we are going to ask you to vote in favour of the preliminary draft law for the reversal of the cuts in the 2012 decree. We are told that the Socialist Group gave the horror of the educational pact. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot break what never existed. Stop saying that the Socialist Party broke a pact, because there was never a pact. The five members of the People's Party at the Sectoral Education Conference were the ones who gave the apprehension in the debate on the reversal of cuts that directly affected the faculty, and I believe that the first thing they should do is support the preliminary draft to which I referred. I am not going to repeat the debate and arguments about the educational DIR that we had a few months ago, because we continue to defend the same thing: an integral model for teachers, a reform of the initial training of teachers, selecting the future best teachers and having a better structure of practice, ensuring permanent training - which, by the way, the gentlemen of the People's Party have carried out in recent years - which is actually a process of teaching career. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is much more logical to improve and strengthen the existing practice with the best tutors, rather than repeating more practice and training. In addition, the selection system already guarantees the principles of equality, merit and capacity in access. By the way, no community is violating those principles. You are addressing the teaching career without a debate with the main actors concerned, with whom you have not had any dialogue in the last seven years, which is precisely what this Government does want to do. We want to talk to teachers, to trade unions, to education faculties, to professional colleges and to the autonomous communities, in which we do trust. They speak of the permanent formation of the faculty, which you have left without resources and have been harming where you rule. I remind you how little by little teachers' centres have been closed in those autonomous communities where they govern, such as Castilla y León, the Comunidad de Madrid or where Cospedal closed all teachers' centres, and now it turns out that they continue to claim and demand permanent training, but it already exists. Just as there are those incentives that you are talking about. Do you know the sexiens that already exist? They also call for training at the national level and curiously have eliminated a territorial cooperation programme, the Arce Programme, which they have left without a budget, an issue which they now also want to reinforce. Teacher mobility itineraries? They also exist, as do many national and international mobility programmes. Interestingly, where the least is given is in those autonomous communities where the People's Party governs. I mean, what you claim with this motion is the beginning of a re-centralisation to mask your disinvestment and excessive cuts where you rule. They do not create new conflicts where they do not exist, let alone at the expense of the faculty. The teaching career, like other issues in education, are improveable, but a forum for debate and reflection is needed, which is what the Minister of Education announced last week. The current system works in the selection and training of teachers, who are competent and deluded, do not doubt it; do not sow doubt between the educational community and society. We will vote against this motion and its national test because we do not share your model of aim and because the rest of the measures that you propose already exist. To demand the re-centralization of competences goes not only against the Constitution but also against the pedagogical sense of responding from diversity to the peculiarities of the educational community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. In order to accept or reject the amendments, Mr Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u152	We're negotiating a transaction with the Citizens Group. It'll happen next.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u154	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000081 to 110/000087. Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. You have three minutes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u155	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, I will speak from the seat because I will be brief, since I am going to announce my group's position on two of the conventions that are going to be submitted for approval by this plenary: this is the agreement of Spain with Tunisia and the agreement of Spain with Paraguay. We believe that international policy should be based not only on national interests but also on values. Part of the international policy is the conventions that Spain establishes with third countries and we believe that the observation of those conventions, where relevant or possible, should raise issues relating to the incorporation of human rights. We believe that both in the Tunis Convention, which briefly mentions the data protection situation, and in Paraguay, where there is nothing about rights, the Government should have made an effort to introduce this issue. We too want to say that we do not make a specific criticism of the countries which are the subject of these conventions; we do not criticize Tunisia, which is doing, and we appreciate it positively, an effort in the area of human rights and democratic freedoms. Perhaps we could do more in the case of Paraguay, where a report by Amnesty International recently pointed out that there had been attacks against human rights defenders and also against journalists; it spoke of degrading treatment by the State Security Forces of that country. We believe, rather, that we must ask, demand from the Government of Spain, and that is what justifies our vote, to make an effort to ensure that such clauses are incorporated into international conventions, where relevant or possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Maura; also for adjusting to time. Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Mr. Bustinduy Amador's denials make negative gestures]] Aren't you going to take the floor? Oh, thank you very much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u157	President, if I don't bother you, I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u158	Excuse me. It has come out of my soul, Mr. Bustinduy, excuse me, no one bothers me at all, quite the contrary, please, but I understand that at this hour it is a relief. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr. Pons Sampietro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u159	Madam President, thank you. Mr Maura, you and your group are questioning two conventions that are framed in the fight against transnational organized crime precisely in a week in which this is one of the challenges that will be discussed in the United Nations Assembly in New York, an organized crime that in many cases denies human dignity and fundamental human rights, such as trafficking in persons, smuggling of migrants or the most bloody cases, a crime that at the same time influences the economic and social conditions for which the State must ensure. In the view of this group, the convention with Paraguay addresses these issues by establishing a framework for cooperation in the fight against crime precisely in its organized forms. In any case, this framework can be further developed by other non-regulatory instruments if necessary. The Socialist Group, therefore, will appreciate this with regard to the Paraguayan Convention. With regard to Tunisia, the agreement seeks to strengthen, deepen and develop police cooperation between the two countries and prevent the action of terrorism and organized crime. In the same vein, cooperation will be given with respect to the respective national laws and international commitments undertaken by both parties and guided by the principles of equality, reciprocity and mutual assistance. I would like to stress that this cooperation is not only bilateral but also within the European Union. Police cooperation with Tunisia is intense, fluid and satisfactory. It is mainly reflected in Spanish support for the institutional strengthening of Tunisian police services in their reform, modernization and training process and also in the fight against terrorism as a strategic country for stability and security throughout the region. I think it is worth remembering that the Twenty-eight gave the green light to the European Commission's proposal last June to increase... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u161	... Europol's collaboration with third countries to combat terrorism and transnational crimes as effectively as possible. I would remind you that the negotiating mandate approved by the Member States allows Brussels to open dialogues on behalf of the Union with eight countries: Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey. I would also like to end by reminding you that President Sánchez and Chancellor Merkel have committed themselves to a European Union that will step up cooperation with African countries to deal with the migration crisis and there is an effort, above all, with Tunisia and Morocco. We therefore see no objection to these conventions and will give them our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons Sampietro. Mrs Reynés Calvache has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u163	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group can only vote in favour of these conventions, which have been signed by the Government of the People's Party, by Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz and by Mr Juan Ignacio Zoido respectively, and which respond to our concern - also to the other parties, Tunisia and Paraguay - about the scope of criminal phenomena such as trafficking in human beings, piracy, terrorism, drug trafficking, illegal immigration, money laundering and the new manifestations of transnational organized crime in general. The diversity of crimes to which the cooperation embodied in these two conventions extends is broad and we believe that it is important to deepen and develop cooperation in these areas because they pose a great challenge to our societies today. After the debate on these agreements in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we repeat our position here today in plenary: To promote security and respect for the law and rights. It is essential for democratic development and the two conventions we are dealing with today reinforce these aspects. I will refer very briefly to the importance for us of these relations with both countries, which are reflected in the foreign policy priorities that the People's Party has always defended. On the one hand, the Latin American region has always been a fundamental axis for us. This convention deepens cooperation between Spain and Paraguay, reaffirmed by other international agreements such as the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime of 15 November 2000. On the other hand, Tunisia, with which Spain already signed a treaty of friendship and cooperation in 1995, is one of the most advanced countries democratically within the group of Arab countries and must be an ally of Spain in the fight against crime and the promotion of security. For us, the African continent has been and is another fundamental axis of Spain's foreign policy. [[Rumors]] In short,...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u164	Wait a minute, Mrs. Reynés. Please, keep quiet. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u165	In short, as I said, international cooperation is necessary in a globalized world, and only in this way, without demagoguery and working for common interests, can we face the transnational challenges that affect all countries. In conclusion, I just wanted to mention the importance to us of these international agreements. Just remember that it was also the Government of the People's Party in the 10th Legislature that carried out Law 25/2014 of 27 November on Treaties and Other International Agreements, which allowed for the adaptation of obsolete and pre-constitutional regulations of 1972 to the very development of international law in these forty years. This law put an end to scattered legislation and systematically and updated the State's activity in the field of treaties and other international agreements. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, as I said at the beginning of my speech, will be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reynés Calvache.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u167	We turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the general account of the State for the financial year 2016 and the resolution adopted by that Commission. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the round of fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u168	Thank you very much, President. Two issues prior to the general account, brief. One more week I must remind you that there are nine political prisoners who are the shame of everyone and from here we denounce it. [[applause]] A second question, to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions of this House. It's an indecency, it's an irresponsibility...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u169	Mr Bel Accensi, please return to the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u170	I'm speaking, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u171	Yes, but not on the issue that concerns us. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u172	If I haven't started yet. [[Rumors]] I wanted to say a second question that had nothing to do with the first one and that is that it is an indecency, it is an irresponsibility and it is, from my humble perspective, a disgust that someone talks about guns on the table in Catalonia. He is politically disqualified from assuming any responsibility in a democratic State. [[Applauds]] That being said, it's a general account. We must recognise that the 2016 general account has been presented by both the State's General Intervention and the Court of Auditors more quickly, not strictly what we would like but has been improved in relation to previous years and it does not hurt us to recognise it. Rather than discussing the work of the General Intervention of the State and the Court of Auditors in drawing up the general account of the State - which we are not going to do and we are going to vote in favour -, presenting the general account of the State in this House also has to be used to take stock of the budgetary execution of the year in question. I would like to remind you that we - it is in the Minutes - do not support the government's budget to the People's Party for 2016. We do not support him for a number of reasons, and today we will see that we were right. First, we did not support the 2016 budgets because we understood that the revenues were overvalued and the collection of the IRPF added to the corporate tax was 9 billion less than budgeted. Just like we predicted. The IRPF collects only 86 % of the budget and the company tax collects only 84 % of what was budgeted. So they're budgeting over what they're actually going to collect. If we look at the state of execution of the expenses we see that what we warn and what is being observed year after year also happens. Ministry of Defence, do the budgetary changes of the Ministry of Defence sound to you? Do you hear a ruling from the Constitutional Court, Judgement 169/2016? Do you know that you said that the budgetary changes in armaments appropriations are not constitutional? They do remember. Do you know what the Ministry of Defence budget change was in 2016? EUR 1395 million, 24% of the budgeted. When I came up to this rostrum and told them that the Ministry of Defence was actually under-budgeted, he was right. In 2015 it was 40% and this was only 25%. Something is something, you'll think, but you have to bear in mind that 1 in 4 euros spent on defence had not been budgeted. Apart from how the budget is drawn up, we need to see how the budget is implemented. Review the implementation status of the budget. Do you remember program 43? I remind you, program 43, commerce, tourism and SMEs. Do you know what the status of program 43 is? 41%, only EUR 4 out of every 10 budgeted for tourism, trade and SMEs. What about the research program, program 46? I remind you, they only executed 53%, just half the budget. In programmes that directly affect the productive economy, you only implemented 50%. In defence programmes, programme 12, with budgetary changes of 24 %, achieve a degree of implementation of 97 %. Therefore, a bad budget, poorly elaborated and worse executed. They can see that the vote against the Democratic Party on the 2016 budgets had its full foundation. I left for the end one of the star games, which is the infrastructure program. The infrastructure programme had an implementation of only 80%, which is very serious because it is the investment programme. But if you look at the territorialised budget lines you will be able to see that the degree of implementation of infrastructure programmes in Catalonia is substantially lower than that of the whole State. Therefore, all the forecasts we made on the 2016 budget today are found to be true. However, we are now simply voting on a technical document, which we are going to support. Finally, Madam President, we are pleased and grateful for the vote in favour of the parliamentary groups that made it possible because among the motions for resolutions that we are going to adopt today together with the general account is one, the twelve, tabled by the Democratic Party, which has been adopted and incorporated into the opinion and which we attach great value to. It is the one that urges the Government - and I ask you to take note of whether you want to present the budget - to definitively forgive the debt that some public institutions, essentially municipal, in the health sector and some non-profit institutions also in the health sector with Social Security. A moratorium had been established in the 1995 budget, which had been extended, and this amount was obviously not going to be paid, and the House therefore asked the Government to proceed with the cancellation of this debt to Social Security. I am sure that you, who respect this House, will incorporate it into the next General State Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u174	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are at the end of the budgetary process, where the general state account allows us to take stock of the economic-patrimonial outcome of the government's management. Before going into detail, however, I would like to highlight two of the motions for resolutions by my Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which certainly improve the procedure. That is, on the one hand, the reduction in processing times, which was also approved by consensus, giving us the opportunity to see it much earlier by improving the interest of its conclusions in a coordinated way with the General Intervention of the State Administration and following the recommendation of the Court of Auditors itself, in addition to the report made to us by the European Court of Auditors and the Portuguese Court of Auditors in 2015. On the other hand, and also on the basis of that report, reforming the Court of Auditors by improving its independence and effectiveness. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u175	Wait a minute, Mr. Ten. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u176	Thank you, President. On the other hand, as I said, on the basis of that report, reforming the Court of Auditors by improving independence and effectiveness. By the way, a proposal rejected by this immobilism of bipartisanism despite being a key part of a democracy, because its health depends on the example of transparency and scrupulous compliance with the rules and, therefore, any indication to the citizen that politicians are above the law or any message of impunity such as amnesty, pardons, suffocation, treatment of favors in public universities, in short, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, especially, any award made by his Government to those who do not comply does a terrible damage to our institutions. Well, going into detail in the State's general account, from Citizens I would like to highlight three issues. The first is the failure to comply with the reporting and accountability obligations of certain public entities that are repeated over time, such as some public funds and in particular the Safe Hydrographic Confederation. And I wonder, if they have management deficiencies, why do they strive to politicize this good as scarce and as necessary as water? Is there any responsibility for it? Has your presidents ceased? Well, casually here and in the rest of public enterprises it only ceases when there is a change of government. And the PSOE does not tremble in making use of that discretionary power of appointments, but as long as they are the color of his party, what we call Sanchez's fingers. [[Applauds]] And it's just that, ladies and gentlemen, we're not all the same. Indeed, we should be able to do so, but they are committed to not respecting the principles of merit and capacity. Secondly, another recurring problem is the disastrous management of the State's debt. They are debts arising from liquidations, debts that have not been collected and that bipartisanism has parking lots. I am talking about EUR 500 million for undue payments in social benefits, I am talking about EUR 3832 million in real estate transferred to the Autonomous Communities and I am talking about more than EUR 24.2 billion in debts managed by the Tax Agency. And, yes, right now, we can, Dr. Sánchez's partner, want to cover it with tax increases, no less than 10.5 billion euros. Come on, I see you want to top the record that the People's Party had with Mr. Montoro in 2012. Finally, I would like to highlight the other perverse effects reflected in these 2016 accounts: reduction of the pension pool and social spending, failure to meet the deficit and record in public debt, or the unavailability of credit for this poor revenue forecast made by the People's Party by weakening public investment and, therefore, this lack of budget execution. By the way, these deficiencies to which I refer were corrected when we agreed on the budgets in 2017 and 2018 with the People's Party. Honestly, in Citizens we are sure that here there is room to better manage public resources and eliminate duplication, superfluous expenses and without having to put your hand joyfully in the pocket of the middle and working class. I'm finishing up, Madam President. I would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the staff of the Court of Auditors, my thanks to the lawyers and the rapporteurs of this report on the 2016 State General Account. Although we from Citizens do not want the reports to be more accessible to their reading, greater respect for the principle of annuality with information concerning contingent liabilities, especially the bleeding ones, to which the highways correspond. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we have to make progress in monitoring management, that is to say, assessing public expenditure because, I insist, the Court of Auditors should provide us with control and information on the health of our institutions. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I insist, any award made by your Government to those who fail to fulfil it does a terrible damage to the institutions, to coexistence and to our welfare state. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten Oliver. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the general state account for 2016, only a year and a half after the budget was implemented, which gives us an idea of the level of accountability of the public administration to citizens. That general account presents a number of striking elements that we would like to highlight, some of which have already been cited above. At the outset, there are thirteen entities in this general account report that do not report to the Court of Auditors, a fact which also exacerbates that of 2015, when there were only eleven. That is to say, there are thirteen state administrations of which we know absolutely nothing. There are so many others who present the accounts out of time or, instead of presenting the approved accounts, they present the accounts formulated, that is, they present as a data what they predicted and not what they executed. And there is an entity that we don't know very well why it has its entire history without presenting accounts, which is the Hydrographic Confederation of the Tagus, which has not submitted accounts to the Court of Auditors any of the years of its existence. We don't know if he's presenting them in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely incomprehensible that there are State administration entities that do not report to the Court of Auditors and are outside public control. In addition, the report presents what we could call creative budget implementation tricks - in which Mr Montoro was a magnificent specialist - by two fundamental means: one, credit changes in a positive and negative direction, and the other, overestimation of revenue. On credit changes, i.e. amending budget lines between different budget groups, we find ourselves in a striking way with that of the Ministry of Defence. Systematically, a budget has been presented for the Ministry of Defence in a range between 20% and 40% below what it was finally implementing. In other words, for 2016 the Ministry of Defence received budgetary changes during the budget year amounting to EUR 1395 million, almost 25% of the total budget. Throughout the period of government of the People's Party, all the credit changes that increased the budget expenditure of the Ministry of Defence were €10.2 billion; that is, while there was no money or was being cut in other budget items, there was always money to increase the budgeted revenues for the Ministry of Defence. Then there are the budgetary changes in the opposite direction, in the sense of trying to show that political relevance was being given but not budgets to certain budget headings, and here the prototypic case is that of research, development and innovation policies. I imagine Minister De Guindos calling Minister Montoro and saying to him: Cristóbal, who has to seem that research and development matters a lot. And Mr Montoro would reply: It's all right, inflate the budget line, then, instead of spending it in the form of direct investment, you distribute it in the form of loans and loans of impossible compliance on the part of the researchers and so it seems that we have spent a lot and yet we have spent a little. Between 2012 and 2016, the amount that was not spent on R & D+i items and that was initially budgeted was EUR 12 billion that did not receive the research and development of this country. And that's not the end of it. That year, in 2016, one thing was also invented, a novelty, which was the non-availability of credit agreement so that public administrations could not spend as of July 1, 2016. This non-availability agreement amounted to EUR 2 billion, which also had to be cut from the various ministerial expenditure. Then we have the leg of overestimation of income. If on the side of credit changes Mr Montoro was a teacher, on the side of overestimation of income and quadrupling of budgets to hammers was already master level of the universe. The negative deviation of revenue forecasts from 2012 to 2016 was more than €30 billion, i.e. they expected to enter €30 billion that never reached the public coffers even though they were budgeted. Basically, the two largest deviations were income from social security amounting to EUR 13 billion which was not collected - more than 70% of the budget - and taxes collected by the General Administration of the State amounting to more than EUR 6175 million. In conclusion, these budgetary changes and this overestimation of revenue gave rise to a mockery and a lack of commitment to what was approved here. Why? Because the People's Party government that approved the budgets was obliged to execute them and not to reinterpret them. The same budgetary rigour that required the rest of the political forces when they were in the Government did not apply to themselves. To the new government, to look to the future, I think we should ask precisely that: greater clarity and effectiveness in budgetary implementation. But first I would remind you of something basic: we must first adopt general State budgets. The draft State General Budgets that can bring a parliamentary group or a government that has 84 deputies sure they are not the same that could bring a government with 176 deputies. We entrust them, encourage them to feel they are negotiating, to be flexible in the negotiation with us and with other forces of progress that are willing to adopt general budgets that will put an end to the process of social damage experienced by the people of this country during the years of crisis and those that have continued. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero Soler. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u180	Thank you, President. Good night now, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] Today we hold the control session that corresponds to the Congress of Deputies of the general account of 2016. The Court of Auditors has previously reported on this. We need to make it clear what the general account means. The general account reflects, on the one hand, the state's capital position, reflects the financial-economic activity that takes place during the financial year and gives the data and results of the budgetary liquidation, and includes the accounts of all public entities. Let us therefore say that it is appropriate to take stock of that financial, economic and budgetary management of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. If we had to draw some conclusions, I would clearly show a lack of rigour. We've always denounced it, budgets weren't credible, revenues were inflated, expenditure management generated non-availability... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u181	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u182	... generated non-availability in line with the policy of permanent cuts, especially in certain areas such as innovation and development. In short, it created a difficult situation. The Court of Auditors has encrypted this, these criticisms have encrypted it and says that Mr Montoro had inflated the revenues in 2016 by 19,400 million, i.e. expected uncollected revenues; and says that 70% was of the contributions and 30% of the direct taxes. Therefore, it confirms what we criticize: inflated income. The expenditure has also demonstrated the austerity policy contained in recent years since 2012. The recognised obligations are EUR 408 billion when in 2015 they were EUR 432 billion, EUR 25 billion not executed. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors itself also points out that the structural deficit of social security has not been addressed, that EUR 20 billion has been made available during this year, that there is only one remaining part of the EUR 15 billion fund and that a loan of more than EUR 10 billion has been made available to cover that structural deficit. And the Court of Auditors concludes with the serious problem that this government has created with financial management, an unknown level of indebtedness in this country. In 2016, it reached EUR 948 billion, an additional 4.35% and almost 40 billion in debt. That is financial management during the financial year 2016. I therefore call for greater rigour in the budgets. I am sure that the draft budgets presented by the new government of Pedro Sánchez will be rigorous, but it will be rigorous in its approaches and will be rigorous in its implementation, which has not been the last seven budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] And I repeat that we are entitled to have these budgets incorporate a new path of stability that will mean an additional EUR 6 billion for social spending and policies through the autonomous communities, through the state, through the municipalities and to pay pensions. [[Applauds]] It is an unacceptable barbarity that the obstacles that are being put in place to the incorporation of more public resources to address necessary policies in the State are being put in place. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u183	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u184	We demand that justice be done and that all these unjust restraints that are being carried out be removed. On the other hand, the general account also shows that there are a number of contingents that are not valued in the memory of the general account itself, very large contingents and that can mean a significant loss in the state's assets. He talks about what are the disputes with the concessionaires of toll freeways and figures this contingency at more than 37 billion euros. It also defines as unbelievable accounts those presented by AquaMed. The management of AcuaMed, questioned by the Court of Auditors, will sound to us all. Moreover, it also includes the Harbour Authority of Gijón, with more than 250 million resources not admitted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u185	Mr. Hurtado, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still an important part of the plenary. I beg you to remain silent or, if not, leave the Chamber. Mr. Hurtado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u186	And on the other hand, another great contingency is banking sanitation in this country, a sanitation that from the government of Mariano Rajoy was said to not cost a penny to the taxpayer's pocket. The data shown by the Court of Auditors is that at the end of the year the estimate is a cost of more than €60 billion, €60.3 billion to be accurate. That is the cost of sanitation, which Mr De Guindos said would mean nothing, no contribution added to the taxpayer's pocket. Well, yes, and very quietly. On the other hand, it also shows that there is still a lot of uncertainty because the increase in this cost can be more than significant with the disputes of the two large banks with public participation, which in this case were Bankia and BMN. It also shows that there is some uncertainty with regard to the Sareb, to which 2179 million have been contributed, but that it has a senior debt guarantee of more than EUR 41 billion and that it can mean a breakdown and a substantial loss of assets to the public purses. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, management is clearly improveable and that the wording has been the correct one. In fact, the prosecutor's office and the State's legal profession do not appreciate any defects. The defects are merely accountable. In this regard, it has also been the Court of Auditors itself that shows that the recommendations of recent years have not been followed and that it is advisable that they are welcomed to substantially improve the State's accounts, formulating itself in terms of national accounts and defining in its own account the level of compliance with the objective of budgetary stability. Therefore, a management that is reflected in this harmful general account, lack of rigour and inconsistency; but of course the wording has to be approved with the recommendations that are included by the Court of Auditors. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u187	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Juncal Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to you all. We are again here to do the processing corresponding to the accounts of 2016. There are factors that have been repeated year after year in which I will try not to deepen because, in my opinion, they should be sufficiently clarified in previous exercises, but I see that they continue to be insisted upon. When talking, for example, about integrated entities, what is missing is not significant. [[Rumors]] It is not meaningful at the discretion of the court itself. Undoubtedly, 100 per cent must be aspired and all State entities held accountable, but I again insist that the Court's report itself considers it to be non-significant. As far as credit changes are concerned, you insist again and set the example of defence. Precisely the special arms plans are an earlier issue than the People's Party, which could not be faced with with the crisis, but there were commitments that forced changes to deal with them and that those projects could move forward. They're talking about inflated income, and I don't agree with you either. Budgets cannot be regarded as an immutable photograph; and that deserves an analysis. [[The Rumors Continue]] I understand that budgets are dynamic. They are a photograph of what is intended, but reality is changing and therefore a responsible Government has to take action throughout the exercise on the basis of results. In 2016, there were a number of factors that led, among other things, to a tax reduction, which favored taxpayers and undermined final income, but what is to be asked is what is the good policy or what is the final result. The final result is that during 2016 the deficit was controlled and not only was it controlled, but it was reduced compared to the previous year. Therefore, all unexecuted budgeted income or unexecuted budgeted expenditure variables respond that the Government had to make that adjustment; and the final result - the cotton test - is the deficit; and the deficit in 2016 was reduced to the amount expected with the consequent benefits for the Spanish economy in general. As far as deadlines are concerned, I just want to reflect. In this model, there is double control, as the Court of Auditors points out in its report, by the General Intervention of the State Administration, the IGAE, and by the Court. There are other examples in Europe, such as Finland. [[Rumors]] It is an example and it is said that it is done in six months after the end of the financial year, but it is not accompanied by such control of the general account. I will give only one data: the intervention of the President of the Court of Auditors took place on 25 June 2018, a month after the Court itself approved it; we approved it today, 25 September. Well, it's been three months, that maybe we could narrow it down, too, but, well, it's a data I leave there. The Court of Auditors' view of the 2016 account is that it faithfully presents in all its significant aspects the economic, capital and financial situation of the State; 394 entities have been integrated 381. In other words, they are not meaningful and have the relevance of faithfully expressing the heritage situation. On the subject of inventories, work is under way on the Sorolla Programme in various ministries. As far as property responsibilities are concerned, Mr Hurtado also commented; man, Mr Hurtado, in the general memoir there is no such risk for property responsibilities, as is the case with Highways. But if you look at the order of the corresponding Ministry of Finance for the preparation of the general account, the responsibilities of the assets appear in the entities that generate that risk; that is, you will be in the corresponding ministry that affects this situation. I'm finishing up. As I said to you, you have to have a dynamic view of the budget, not static when it suits you and dynamic when it suits you, but you have to have it at all times. All changes in appropriations were in line with existing rules. In short, 2016 was a good year: it grew, employment was created, the deficit was controlled and the citizens' taxes were lowered. As one saying says: another will come that good will do me. Let's see what you're doing next year, 2019, because I'm afraid that with the announcements made by Dr. Sánchez, your leader, we're going to find that you're going to increase the debt, there's going to be more deficit, there's going to be more taxes, there's going to be less revenue; you've already announced, the 'dyselazo'; also noisy, given the position of the competent minister of the branch, another hole in the electrical sector by the attitudes it takes; and today the Bank of Spain has found that there is already a slowdown in the economy. Nor do they control very well, to say something but do not control anything, the issue of the process, with which the political stability of the country is also resentful and resentful of the whole economy and of any situation. That is why, as I said before, I would like to be wrong, because I certainly do not like my country, my country, to go wrong, but with the background that you have, who are experts in doing so in a special way when you govern, I anticipate that you, the Socialist Party, are going to break the record of the debt that worries you so much, and that we too were concerned and continue to worry. Of course! But it is a simple mathematical operation, the deficit of this exercise is the debt of the following year; and you have already announced that you want to leave the path of deficit marked by the People's Party, which was gradually decreasing, to announce that you want more deficit, that you want to ultimately spend more and get more debt. That's all, President, and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u190	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the item on the agenda relating to the request of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto to set up a commission of inquiry on the possible political responsibilities arising from the irregularities in the process of awarding, financing, construction and compensation of the Castor gas warehouse. For the defence of the request submitted by its groups, intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Ballester Muñoz. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u191	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into a process of irregularities: the award, financing, construction and compensation of the Castor gas warehouse. Talking about Castor is talking about many millions, talking about Castor is talking about Castellón and talking about Castellón today is talking about horror. Two girls have been murdered by their father, denounced for macho violence, and two more women have died in our country today. From here I want to show our revulsion and I want to ask a reflection and a question: What would have happened to those women and girls if instead of wasting the money in Castor we had destined them for macho violence? [[Applauds]] I want to greet from here the mayor of Vinaròs, who accompanies us from the rostrum, and the collectives who have been denouncing this project for years. Despite the obstacles they have never surrendered, so we have to thank them. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u192	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u193	I'm sure some people would've liked this puff to stay in the bottom of a drawer, but it couldn't have been. Why? Because society is tired of corruption and because this, ladies and gentlemen, does not fit in a drawer. [[shows a photograph of Castor]] This is still off the coast of Vinaròs and reminds us that the Castor project was an unnecessary and inviable project, a risk operation that affected our pockets and the populations of Castelló and Tarragona, which had to suffer more than a thousand earthquakes and an environmental and economic impact still to be determined. Ladies and gentlemen, according to consumer organisations, this project will cost us more than EUR 47 billion. Castor is synonymous today with a way of governing, a way of putting everyone's resources at the service of a few, a way of making citizens pay for the rescue of large companies, whether they be highways, banks or in this case the construction company Escal UGS, owned by Mr Florentino Pérez. [[Applauds]] This committee of inquiry is necessary because we have to explain to people why in this country there are some who play with advantage, why Mr Florentino assumes no risk when thousands of people and companies have had to close the blind of their businesses. They and they, those who are striving, those who are raising this country, should be the priority for any Government. They were not, and we owe them at least one explanation. This committee of inquiry is also necessary because there are many unanswered questions. Why did this project start in 2007 with 481 million and end in 2010 with 1272 million? Were the reports warning of seismic risk in the area hidden? Why was the investment in the royal decree, which came to say: Tranquilo, Florentino, go ahead with the operation, that if you go badly will already be paid by the citizens? And of course they paid for it. Minister Soria compensated Florentino with 1350 million euros, paid in addition to express. This commission of inquiry is necessary because the best vaccine against corruption and privileges is transparency. We want to know what happened, how it happened, and who was responsible for the Castor disaster so it wouldn't happen again. And, if it is shown that there was negligence, we want to be able to demand the return of compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to open doors and windows so that we can get the light into one of the biggest scams in our history, and we also have the opportunity to put an end to a shameful game of tennis. Your two players? The Socialist Party, which launched the project, and the People's Party, which liquidated and compensated Florentino Pérez. These players are passing the ball from one side to the other, and meanwhile the citizenry is a spectator of a kind of Davis Cup in which it never won Spain. Because when you rule for the millionaires and against the general interest, the loser is the country; when you compensate Florentino with the money of businesses and families, the loser is the country, and when you rule against your country, what you do is be a traitor to your people. No more betrayals, this House cannot continue to be a spectator of this betrayal, so, ladies and gentlemen, the end of the game. The Castor project should never have existed. We cannot put time behind us, but we can clarify the facts and demand responsibilities. Let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u194	Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor for the same group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u195	The Castor project is one of the greatest examples of extractive capitalism, dependent on fossil fuels and amicable capitalism, in which large companies with a call have been able to decide what is published in the BOE. Two weeks ago the National Court confirmed the file of the complaint submitted by the Observatori del Deute, Xnet and the Institut de Drets Humans de Catalunya against various former ministers and against Florentino Pérez, owner of the company that promoted the Castor project. Nevertheless, the Castor case is not a closed case, either judicially or politically. No one, absolutely no one, has assumed political responsibilities for this fiasco, for this new fraud: neither the ministers involved nor the promoter company. It is not a closed case, and today we are holding this debate thanks to the entities that, like the Platform Ciutadana in Defense of the Lands of the Seine, have not surrendered in their demand for responsibilities; thanks to the organizations mentioned above that promoted the popular judgment by the Castor; thanks to mayors, like that of Vinaròs, who today accompany us; thanks to a citizen who no longer consents to impunity in the face of any kind of fraud, corruption or nepotism, and also thanks to the good journalists who have continued to investigate and have not allowed this scandal to be forgotten. [[Addressing the public gallery.-Applause]] This is not just about energy policy; this is about democracy, this is about defending the general interest. It is a question of who led the infrastructure policy and energy planning in this country, whether the Castor was decided in the ministry or on the Bernabéu stage. We want to know why the risk of a business project always ends up assuming citizenship, in this case paying through the gas bill, and the benefits are always private. How is it possible that, while social cuts were being made, more than 1350 million euros were paid to investors in record time of thirty-five days, through a royal decree-law suspended a few months ago by the Constitutional Court? Again private debt that becomes public debt. Who is responsible for approving that, under any circumstances, even if there was fraud or negligence, the company would be compensated? How is it possible that, despite the various warnings of the Observatori de l'Ebre, gas was injected into the warehouse, causing more than a thousand earthquakes with the consequent alarm among the population? The responsibility of the Castor is shared by different governments, the PSOE and the PP. Some have a responsibility for planning and execution and to pay compensation in record time; others, to approve an absolutely unnecessary gas warehouse and to design a project tailored to a particular company and plagued with irregularities. We are not interested in the 'and you more', we are interested in establishing with seriousness and rigour the political responsibilities of this disaster and that, as is the case in other countries, this is a useful Commission that prevents the repetition of other Castors. This is the right of citizens to know the right to the truth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u197	Thank you, Madam President. [[His intervention in Catalan begins by addressing the public gallery]] It's been five years, five years since that nightmare, and today we're finally talking in this Congress of Castor, we're discussing the Castor case, we're discussing the need to investigate what happened to that concession, why Florentino Pérez was put on the red carpet to come to the Master to cause earthquakes. Today, five years after all those earthquakes in Vinaròs, we are going to put a red carpet on Florentino Pérez, but this time for him to come here to Congress to explain what happened, what he did and why he came to cause earthquakes to the Master with the Castor. We have proposed, together with Unite Podemos, a committee of inquiry because we want to know why so many benefits, why so many facilities. We want to know what the PSOE and the PP got out of all this. We are clear what Florentino Pérez was getting out, we are clear that he was getting 24 billion euros insured, whether the Castor was working or not, whether his company was doing well or being negligent. But we need to know what the People's Party and the Socialist Party were getting out of all this in order to allow the Master to tremble with the sole objective of benefiting ACS. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u198	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u199	The Castor is the clearest example of the chanchullos between PP and PSOE amiguetes. It was a tailor-made suit, a public tender was drawn up to expressly award the project to your company, without the necessary environmental and risk reports. The population was put at risk for the benefit of ACS and then the flood has cost us billions of euros. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u200	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u201	Thank you. The Castor was a scam we need to know. We need to know all the irregularities that the PSOE started and that the PP ended. We need to unravel the Beaver's chanchullo. I will give you ten reasons, - only ten, I could give you more - to vote yes to investigate the Castor case in this House: it was a custom suit made for Florentino Pérez, without forecast of serious accidents, without internal emergency plans, without security report, without study of economic conditions, without study of archaeological impact, without study of seismic impact, which caused three hundred earthquakes in the Maestrat, its construction was licitated for 700 million euros and cost 1200 million euros; in addition, it was paid compensation of 130 million euros, paid urgently through Natural Gas, to which we have to return almost doubled, and it has also been declared unconstitutional. They are voting in favour of this committee for any of these reasons or for all of them together. They vote yes to this committee because this is to shed light on the opacity of the Castor case, because above all the Master's people need answers, we deserve to know what price was put on our well-being. Let us do justice once and for all and say from Congress that the Master is not for sale. Let's investigate once and for all the cascade of the Castor case. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u202	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u203	Thank you very much, President. [[His intervention in Catalan begins by addressing the public gallery]] We are obviously going to support this initiative and I sincerely ask some and others to support it, and I know that there will be groups that will support it. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] The Catalonian Parliament has already set up a committee of inquiry on this matter. It would not be acceptable for this House not to attempt to generate - I think the proponents have said - transparency. Because we have now seen that this was a project managed by a socialist government, which later materialized and was buried by a government of the People's Party and so far we have only seen reproaches between one another, but the neighbours of Terres de l'Ebre, the neighbors of the Master's and all the users of the gas system, who are paying this real misdemeanour at the moment, want political responsibilities to be addressed, which are ours in this House, beyond the judicial ones that are going to be resolved with more or less fortune. It cannot be that politically no one is responsible for this real misconception. They must also do so for another reason, for dignity and because it corresponds to all the neighbors of the Maestrat, to all the neighbors of Terres de l'Ebre who previously denounced what was going to happen, saw what happened, suffered it in their own flesh and in their property and now, after many years of struggle, it cannot be that the Parliament of the Spanish State disappoints them. This committee is necessary and political responsibilities need to be cleared up so that at least no more happens. The Democratic Party is therefore going to support this committee of inquiry and hopes that, like the Catalonian Parliament, the Spanish State Parliament will also approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u205	Good night to everyone. [[Pronounce words in Catalan addressing the public gallery]] More than €4.5 billion will have to pay for legal imperative all consumers in their gas bill; pay for an unfinished project, which caused more than a thousand earthquakes, some of intensity 4 on the Richter scale and which could have reached almost 7 if Amposta's tectonic fault had been broken. It is a project full of technical, economic, administrative and political irregularities; a project that never came into operation and on which the different governments, both of the PSOE and of the People's Party, have not wanted to assume any responsibility to date nor have they wanted to investigate responsibilities. We have many questions: When was it known that there was an error in the design of the Castor submarine gas warehouse and based on what scientific studies? Why have these studies not been made public? Who will assume the responsibilities for having carried out the construction of Castor, even though there is a design error? Why and who authorized the construction of the submarine gas warehouse in an active fault zone, without requiring a prior seismic risk study? - More scandals. Why did the concessionary company Escal UGS ignore the demands of the Observatorio de l'Ebre and the Geological Institute of Catalonia to carry out a seismic risk study? Why, in the face of the opposition shown by the Generalitat de Catalunya, did the Spanish Government change the maritime borders so that the area of the Castor concession would fall exclusively into Valencian administrative waters? Who and why did he shield a business about which there were many technical and economic doubts? Why could the concessionaire Escal UGS receive compensation, even if it had acted negligently or maliciously, even when the marine plant was only being tested and had never been operational? Why has no Government yet carried out a technical audit of Castor? Why were EUR 600 000 paid to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for a study that corroborated the same as the Marine Geological Institute and also the National Geographical Institute? In other words, thousands of earthquakes were caused by the injection of gas into the submarine warehouse. How was it possible for Florentino Pérez's ACS company to win the tender by means of a non-competition procedure and could, moreover, subcontract its own companies by increasing the industrial profit margin from 5 % fixed in the contract to 17 % and without any justification? These and many other questions await answers from all. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana is pleased that a commission of inquiry on Castor, one of the biggest political and economic scandals in the recent history of the Kingdom of Spain, can finally be set up. Esquerra Republicana, despite the lies of some Member of the Commission, since the same day of 2007 when the Ministry of Industry published the project in the BOE showed its opposition to the Castor presenting allegations. Esquerra was the first party to register the request for the creation of a subcommission of research of the Castor in the Commission of Industry, as early as November 2013. Proposal that we also present in the following legislatures without any success. Then, and to this day, there have been dozens of motions, initiatives, questions to the various ministers of governments and dozens of parliamentary actions that we have tabled in municipalities and parliaments to demand closure and dismantling and responsibilities. We have been demanding responsibility for the whole Castor case for the repeated negatives of PSOE and the People's Party for years. Well, last June Esquerra Republicana promoted in the Parliament of Catalonia the creation, at last, of a commission of inquiry on Castor which was approved, this time, with the votes of the People's Party and PSOE, among other groups. Let us hope that today the People's Party and PSOE will be consistent with what they voted in the Catalan Parliament. The Castor case is the best example of the business that certain builders and companies do from the Bernabeu stage. We denounce capitalism linked to the BOE, so characteristic of the Kingdom of Spain. I'll give you an example. The case of Carlos Ocaña Orbis serves as an example - attention to what I am going to say - that, beyond participating in the doctoral thesis of Pedro Sánchez, he was the chief of cabinet of the Minister of Industry, Miguel Sebastián, between 2006 and 2011. Mr Carlos Ocaña himself approved the famous clause by which Florentino was able to charge 1350 million euros for facilities that did not work and that caused earthquakes. Well, Florentino Pérez, only six months after Carlos Ocaña left office in the ministry in 2012, incorporated him into Real Madrid as a member of the executive, economic, purchasing and management committees and project manager. In fact, he is still a director of corporate products and regulation. An example of Mr Florentino's generosity with his friends. From Esquerra Republicana we again ask that it be the ones responsible for the failure of the Castor and his friend Florentino who assume the costs of the fiasco and not the citizenship. We call for the withdrawal of the payment order and the reversal of the illegal and illegitimate compensation received improperly by the beaver's concessionary companies. From Esquerra Republicana we demand the sealing of the wells of the Castor and the dismantling of all its installations. The time has come to put an end to the impunity of those responsible for the Castor. We want to know the whole truth about Operation Castor, whoever falls and whoever the responsibilities are. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u206	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Quiet, I won't say it again. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u207	Thank you, Madam President. We have already said that this parliamentary group is going to vote yes to investigate another of the energy policy patches that have been committed in this country and that citizens pay. We are debating a frustrated project, approved in 2008 by the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, with Mr Sebastián as minister and with the environmental impact authorization signed by that state secretariat, which is today our Minister of Ecological Transition. This project began operations in 2012 and after nearly a thousand seismic movements, initiated since the first gas injection, stopped in 2013 to end up liquidating the project in 2014. The Government of the People's Party, for its part, participated in an express compensation of almost €1400 million, an amount that has finally risen with interest to more than €250 million. The Constitutional Court has ruled on this and declared null and void the articles of the Royal Decree establishing compensation for suspension of operations. In addition, it stated that there was no extraordinary or urgent need; that is, that the motivation that was used to justify this royal decree, which was brought here precisely to support it, in the end the only thing it did was to talk about the need for supply, the lack of security of supply and the dependence that the Spanish energy system has to support a royal decree that, as I say, has been a further example of energy policy patches. As you can see, we are talking about a millionaire public payment that has subjected our entire gas system to a debt of more than EUR 47 billion, which does not pay either Mr Sebastián or Mrs Ribera or the former Minister of the People's Party, who was the one who ran to give that compensation, that is, my countryman, Mr Soria; each of the citizens of this country pays it in the gas receipt. I do not know if this sounds like the patches because when we refer to the bill of light, we talk about that most of this bill are patches for ineptitude or lack of energy planning, but it is also that if we go to the gas bill, our citizens also pay for gas policy patches. We understand that for many years a policy of improvisation has been made, but what we do not understand is why we have not apologized to all the citizens of this area who have been affected, as I say, by more than a thousand seismic movements. You don't have to be a prestigious geologist to understand that if there were already different reports saying it was an area with seismic risk, making a warehouse and injecting gas under pressure maybe it wasn't the most favorable situation. As I say, different technical reports had already said and had already determined the possibility of such risks, even different associations requested a seismic activity or seismic risk study to be included in that environmental impact report, something that was not included and obviously not included because it was not done. We could say that this project shows the opacity of cross-interests; it has been an economic macro-operation that was intended to justify only the energy dependence of our country, but without planning, without a before, without a after, without a long-term forecast, or, which is the same, they have unilaterally decided different economic macro-operations without technical foundation that have now mortgaged the gas and electricity receipts of our citizens. The happy ideas of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have led us today to have burdens and burdens and burdens on the receipts paid by our citizens, but then they rise to the rostrum and with an absolute demagogy and without getting colored defend the opposite today, while yesterday they signed something else. What is clear is that any committee that helps to shed light on this project, which was neither part of an energy planning and development strategy nor concerned about the interests of any of the citizens, will be approved by this party, as I mentioned earlier that we also wanted to do a commission of inquiry to see what happened to the mining funds that have not gone to the mining sector. [[Applauds]] Let us hope that this will be much more successful because the barbarities that have been committed in the field of energy policy not only have to be clarified, they not only have to come to light, but above all we have to start being responsible for our actions. So we hope that this committee will come forward for the good of all those affected, of all those who have lived both in the Tarragona area and in the Castellón area and who continue to reside there, for the good of them and for the good and transparency of our entire system, not only political but also in energy matters. I therefore reaffirm our positive vote on the establishment of this committee. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u208	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Rallo Lombarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to express the support of the Socialist Group for the creation of this committee of inquiry into the Castor project. Although the previous groups have already done so, it is worth remembering, albeit briefly, some key facts on this matter. Firstly, the projected storage of natural gas off the coast of Castellón originally sought to meet Spain's energy demand for natural gas in the event of shortage or cessation of imports. In 1996 it was Minister Josep Piqué who granted the first permit for the Castor project by royal decree signed on September 6, 1996. The Castor project was finally approved in 2008, by royal decree of 16 May, and had the required municipal activity licenses. It began operations in May 2012 and the first injections of natural gas occurred on 10 April 2012. The project, as has already been described, was owned by the company Escal, which was mainly owned by ACS. The project was paralysed by generating seismic movements that caused a huge social alarm in the provinces of Castellón and Tarragona, and although Minister Soria initially announced that compensation would not be paid, claiming that it was a mistake of improvisation of the company, the Council of Ministers unexpectedly announced that it would pay those €1350 million to Escal. On 3 October 2014, the Government terminated the concession, revoked the State's license to operate the Castor gas warehouse and compensated the company - I repeat, most of which was ACS - with €1,350 million. The compensation would be paid for 30 years by the citizens through the receipt of the gas; to be paid, therefore, by 7 million Spanish users. The payment of the receipt on time for three decades, together with interest, would multiply the amount up to the EUR 47 billion already referred to. Derived from the appeal lodged in its day by the socialist deputies, headed at that time by today's president of the Valencian Generalitat, Ximo Puig, and by the Catalan institutions, on 24 December 2017 the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the decree-law approving the compensation, denying the urgency of a decision that had been taken in thirty-five days. The court found that there were no grounds for urgency and necessity that justified a decree-law. The Constitutional Court's ruling showed that the Rajoy Government preferred to defend particular interests, leaving aside the general interests. It is necessary to clarify the reasons that led the Government to pay compensation of EUR 1350 million so quickly, no more or less, when it was rather necessary to carry out an analysis of the environmental, administrative, legal and economic situation that was created from the moment the seismic movements took place in order to make a calm decision that would conform to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe all of this illustrates the need to set up the commission of inquiry that is proposed today, a commission of inquiry into the irregularities that could have occurred in the process of awarding, financing, construction and compensation of the Castor gas warehouse. We share this objective, without reservations or prejudice, for the sake of public transparency and the defence of the general interest, because citizens have the right to know whether there was a lack of transparency in the award process, whether there were irregularities in the financing of the project, whether the overruns were justified, whether the contractual clauses that shielded the investment were lawful, whether environmental legislation was respected, whether the technical reports were followed, whether the approved compensation was adjusted to the law, whether the economic consequences in this case will affect users and, finally, even if it is not the subject of the investigation, what will be the fate of the infrastructure that still exists today. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice or reservations, as our Constitution mandates, a commission of inquiry to clarify a matter of public interest in need of light and stenographers. Nothing more and thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u211	Thank you, Madam President. With this committee of inquiry, the Socialist Party has the opportunity to amend itself and, in addition, the socialist leaders who promoted this project will be able to answer the various questions that the different groups have raised today. Because this commission of inquiry, will it be useful for you not to do it again, ladies and gentlemen? And I am addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Will it be used to properly manage the public good? Will it serve that they are not continually driven by recklessness? The decree I have in my hand, 855/2008, created an economic damage that we are hearing today once again; it also created a high risk to people and the environment. A royal decree that is signed by Mr. Miguel Sebastián. A royal decree that says what I'm going to read to you right now: that the concessionaire will have the right to compensation if there is lapse or extinction - so far everything seems quite reasonable -. But then it says: even if this is caused by a negligence of the company. This is signed by a minister of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] The Government of Mariano Rajoy brought an action for leniency because it is clear that this text is harmful to the general interest, but the Supreme Court decided that it was not harmful, which is why EUR 13 billion had to be paid to the European Investment Bank. Because, ladies and gentlemen - there are people in this house who may not know - the builder had already been paid by the socialist government. [[Applauds]] A socialist government that modified the planning of gas and electricity 2002-2011 in 2006 to include this project. A project to which he called category A, that is, that he could shorten, and without conditions, the procedure of award and construction; that he also had a declaration of environmental impact signed by the Secretary of State for Climate Change, Teresa Ribera, whose Director General of Environmental Assessment is currently imputed. [[Several Members: Wow!-Rumors]] And what did the People's Party do? Even though they didn't ask me, what did the People's Party government do? On 25 September 2013, a series of earthquakes occurred higher than number 3 on the Richter scale, which is why the following day, on 26 September, the Government suspended the activity of that storage, demanding a report from MIT and the Mineral Geological Institute, which in fact established that there was a relationship between gas injections and earthquakes. It has hibernated the facility to ensure the safety of people and the environment. It has reduced the financial costs, ladies and gentlemen. We have a financial cost of 8 % profitability, which was EUR 200 million per year and we reduced it to 4 % profitability, with less than EUR 100 million per year. We amended the Environmental Assessment Act to include seismic studies in future environmental impact statements. And, finally, a clause on future liability for vices that may arise in the construction or actions or omissions in the operation of the concession. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not all the same and in this committee, in addition to answering the questions that have been raised by the various groups, we will be able to know whether, in fact, the Socialist Group assumes that when one governs, one must be responsible and vigilant for public money and abandons a situation such as that which we have experienced with this Castor project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u212	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the votes. Firstly, we are voting for the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, guaranteeing equality in access and promotion in public employment without discrimination on linguistic grounds. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 5 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 167 plus 1 telematics vote, 168; against, 172 plus 4 telematics votes, 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u214	Therefore, it is not taken into account. - the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 of 24 July 2015 approving the revised text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products. [[File number 122/00205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u215	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 of 24 July, approving the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Sanitary Devices. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes, plus 5 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 72 plus 4 telematics votes, 76; against, 137; abstentions, 130 plus 1 telematics vote, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u216	Therefore, it is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u217	Let us now proceed to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the text of the non-legislative proposals. First of all, we voted for the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the amendment of article 132.1 in relation to articles 130.1.6 and 131 of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on the limitation of offences of abuse and/or sexual assault against minors. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment adding the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u218	It's approved. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE DESIGN OF ENERGY TRANSITION ON THE BALANCED PARTICIPATION OF COAL AS PROVIDED FOR ENERGY RESOURCES, AS WELL AS THE APPROACH IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE OF RESOURCES FOR THE REDUCTION OF CONTAMINANT EMISSIONS IN THE TERMICAL ELECTRIC GENERATION CENTRALS. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 162/000754]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u219	We are now voting for the non-legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the design of an energy transition which sets out the balanced participation of coal as its own source of energy resources, as well as the allocation in the State's General Budgets of resources for the reduction of polluting emissions in power stations. You're going to vote for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 321 against, 9 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u220	It was adopted. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 137 against, 46 abstentions, 156.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u221	It was adopted. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 151 against, 68 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u222	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 136 against, 199 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u223	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u224	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent questioning. Firstly, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the problems caused by plastic waste and the measures necessary to deal with its reduction. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos En Comú PodemosEn Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 202 against, 1 abstention, 135.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u225	It's approved. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the compromise and concrete actions of the Government with the future and development of the Navarra FORAL COMMUNITY, on the basis of the agreements contained in the current law on general state budgets for the year 2018. [[LORDS ALLI AND SALVADOR]] [[File number 173/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, we now vote in favour of the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the commitment and concrete actions of the Government to the future and development of the Foral Community of Navarre, on the basis of the agreements provided for in the current Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. [[Mr. Alli and Mr. Salvador]] We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 251 against, 64 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u227	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Government's Policy on Measures for the Social, Economic and Professional Recognition of Teachers. [[File number 173/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u228	We now vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's policy on measures for the social, economic and professional recognition of teachers. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 172 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u229	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The opinions will be voted on electronically, having asked for a separate vote. First of all, Convention No 110/85. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 297 abstentions, 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u231	It was adopted. - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY ON CITIZEN SECURITY COOPERATION, I DID 'AD REFERENDUM' IN MADRID ON 9 JUNE 2015. [[File number 110/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u232	We now vote on Convention No 110/87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 295 abstentions, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u233	It was adopted. - CONVENTION OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE ON AN INTEGRATED PLANT OF PROTECTION, SAFETY AND ATTENTION IN PARTICULAR PARTICULAR FUTURE AND OTHER SPORTING DEVELOPMENTS, DONE IN SAINT-DENIS ON 3 JULY 2016, AND DECLARATIONS THAT SPANISH WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000081]] - COMPLAINT OF THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON VIOLENCE AND REPRESENTATIONS OF SPECTOTORS WITH REASONS FOR SPORTING AND SPECIAL DemonstratIONS IN PARTICULAR PARTICULAR PARTICULARS OF THE FUOTBOL, DONE IN STRASBOURG ON 19 AUGUST 1985. [[File number 110/000082]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ON INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE TRANSPORT, DONE IN SARAJEVO ON MARCH 7, 2018. [[File number 110/000083]] - CABO CITY AGREEMENT 2012 ON THE IMPLAINTING OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE 1993 TORREMOLIN PROTOCOL ON THE INTERNATIONAL TORREMOLIN CONVENTION FOR THE SAFETY OF FISHERIES, 1977, DID IN CABO CITY ON 11 OCTOBER 2012, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000084]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA DE MARFIL ON AIR TRANSPORT, I MAKE 'AD REFERENDUM' IN MADRID ON 18 JANUARY 2018. [[File number 110/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u234	Rest of agreements. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u235	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u236	We now vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2016, as well as on the resolution adopted by that Commission. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 344 in favour, 328 in favour, 5 in favour, 333 in favour, 11 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u237	The opinion and the proposal of the Joint Commission were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to vote on the request of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto to set up a commission of inquiry on the possible political responsibilities arising from the irregularities in the process of awarding, financing, construction and compensation of the Castor gas warehouse. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-25-CD180925.u239	It's approved. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was ten and forty minutes of the night.
