ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u1	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, how do you assess the political and economic situation of the Government?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, I must start by congratulating you on your election as President of the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group. Going to your question, I'll tell you that seven years of People's Party government aren't fixed in a hundred days. In any case, taking into account the forecasts of economic growth for Spain that the European Commission has, taking into account that 455,000 more jobs will be created this year than last year and taking into account that right now in Spain there is no party that has been sentenced for irregular financing, I have to say that the economy is doing well and the policy is doing better. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u5	Mr. Married, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you came to the government without winning the elections, indeed, with the worst historical result of the Socialist Party and the support of the Podemos, the Independenceists and even the Batsuns. In a hundred days we have seen how much the mortgage was and especially how short it was to pay for it. We have seen how the Batasun prisoners - that is, the former prisoners of ETA - approached the dictate of the Bildu prisoners. We have seen that he was doing the same with the secessionist prisoners by order of Torra. And we have seen that it also announces the rise of all taxes, I imagine that because it is ordered by Podemos, because this year it will collect more than 400 billion euros. The problem is that the interests of that mortgage are paid by all the Spanish and very expensive. August 31 was the day with the biggest layoffs of a long time ago, 360,000. We have seen how, as the consumer's confidence falls, the light continues to rise. We have seen the fall of the number of international tourists most accused of the last eight years. You're only right when you rectify. It happened with immigration, we warned of the effect called and we already have the worst illegal immigration wave of the last decade. It also passed with Mr Puigdemont's claim against Llarena in Belgium, he had to rectify. And recently with Navantia's workers, about to cost her 6,000 jobs. But you, unlike Mendez Núñez, neither ships nor honor. And so we have reached the Diada, where, after that independenceist coven, we once again only hear from the government that it would like the prisoners not to be in jail. Moreover, Catalonia is a nation. And you go to the Senate and say that your recipe for Catalonia is law and dialogue. This reminds me of what Maura told Cambó: you pretend to be Bismark in Madrid and Bolivar in Catalonia. But it's not possible, the appeasement is no longer possible. Order in Catalonia. Do it now. It is necessary to recover the legality, it is necessary to put an end to the dark processions of torches, it is necessary to put an end to the lock in the Parliament, it is necessary to put an end to the aggressions on the street. And if you don't do it or you don't leave it or you can't, quit self-government consultations; here you have the absolute majority in the Senate to sit with the People's Party, regain the legality, harmony and prosperity of Catalonia by applying once again the Constitution with Article 155. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, Mr Casado, do not oppose yourself, do not accuse the Government of what it does not do, because if we enter the territory of the changes, I have seen you scream 'there are no papers for everyone' and the next day tighten the hands of the sub-Saharans in the port of Algeciras. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] I have seen the Secretary General of the People's Party say in a medium of communication that he himself would be willing to remove the yellow ties in Catalonia and you, instead, reproach Mr Rivera for having advanced himself in the intention of removing those yellow ties. [[Laughter]] I have heard the President of the Congress of Deputies kindly - and I think it is right - invite Mr Torra, President of the Generalitat, to the Congress of Deputies to explain his vision of Catalonia and, instead, to you to reject it. What do I mean by that, Mr. Married? Look, I really feel that the arrival of the progressive, socialist, leftist government has been a trauma to the Spanish right, but you will have to get used to the changes, Mr. Casado; you will have to get used to a government that recovers the universality of public health; you will have to get used to the changes of a government that in the next Council of Ministers will pass a preliminary draft law to reverse the cuts in public education that you practiced for seven years; you will have to get used to a feminist government, Mr. Casado, not of gender ideology, feminist government. [[rumors]] [[applause]] [[several ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]] [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not oppose yourself, Mr Casado. Get used to it because there are so many things to recover and so many more to get. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTION TO THE BURBUJA OF THE ALTILER? [[File number 180/00688]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u10	Question, also addressed to the President of the Government, by Mr Pablo Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, what steps does your Government intend to take to put an end to the rental bubble? [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u13	Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Iglesias on behalf of the Government on his return to Spanish politics. I think you have had an extraordinary spokesman who has supplied you at this time, but in the personal and political sphere it is good to have you back and I would like to acknowledge that, Mr. Iglesias. With regard to your question on housing policy, I will tell you that there are many things we are going to do, which we are already doing from the Spanish Government. I wanted to announce that we are going to develop a housing law that will respond to the social role of housing, shaping social housing as a public service that guarantees the equality of Spaniards in the exercise of their right to housing throughout the national territory. And I want to say this, because with this law we are going to put an end to something that I think is important and that I want to announce to you in this House and it is the sale of public housing to vulture funds. This is something we are going to do from the Government of Spain. I remind you that in the specific case of the Community of Madrid, governed by the People's Party with the support of Citizens, these funds were made with about 5000 public housing units, 1860 housing units of the Municipal Housing and Soil Company of the City of Madrid and 2935 housing units of the Housing Institute of Madrid, Ivima, of the Community of Madrid. I would therefore like to announce in the House, Madam President, that in this specific case of the Madrid Community the Advocate General of the State is going to appear as a particular charge in the criminal proceedings opened against the Madrid Community in the Court of Inquiry. [[Applauds]] It will not shake our hand so that the administrations that are behind this intolerable abuse that has affected so many humble people, without resources, assume their political and economic responsibilities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u14	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u15	Mr President of the Government, I thank you for your commitment. I was specifically asking you about the rental because there are data that are alarming and that I understand that you know or, if not, you should know them. The last five years the rental price in Spain has increased almost 19%. In large cities such as Madrid and Barcelona, rent price increases are worrying, 38% in Madrid and 48% in Barcelona. The average rental price in Spain only in the first half of this year 2018 has increased by 300 euros and, unfortunately, evictions due to rent default already represent six out of ten evictions that occur in Spain. This data means that we have to intervene. We are voting in favour of your candidacy to be President of the Government in order to be able to speak on these things, and I am going to make some very concrete proposals that will be at the table that we have with you to reach an agreement on the budgets and that have to do with what the Union of Tenants is proposing in Spain and with measures that have been taken in countries in our environment such as Germany, Denmark or Sweden. The first thing, and it is very concrete, is to end the privileges of the Socimi. They are commercial companies operating in the real estate market and taxing 0%. The second measure is that large forks and vulture funds, which have more than ten homes, must be forced once and for all to be placed on the market. Thirdly, and most importantly, it is essential to empower the municipalities of this country so that they can declare certain urban areas as having a tight market and that the rent price can be regulated. In this country, Mr President of the Government, there are many people who are trying hard to pay rent and deserve a government to protect them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u16	Mr. President, would you like to use your second shift? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, of the civic parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: What does the Government intend to do to ensure the fulfilment of the Constitution and to ensure respect for civil rights in Catalonia? [[File number 180/00692]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u17	Question also addressed to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, yesterday he resigned a minister from his government, the second in a hundred days, for plagiarism, for copying, for cheating. A few months ago Mrs Cifuentes had to resign as president of the autonomous community for the same reason and is accused. There is an ongoing investigation into the leader of the People's Party, the Married case. In short, we have doubts about what is happening at the public university. Mr. Sánchez, there's worry, there's discomfort, students get it done, they work, they work, they work, teachers, parents and families too; they make a lot of effort to get a job out of a doctoral thesis or anything else. And I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, what cannot be said is that in Spain it seems that joining the People's Party or the PSOE is more important than trying. That's what can't happen in this country. That is why, Mr Sánchez, I want to ask you why, of the more than twenty laws that have been processed in three months, the only law that you have given an order to veto, the only law that has been vetoed during these three months is precisely the law of transparency in the university. I will read you some of the articles of that law, which you will know because you have ordered to veto it. Article 4 speaks of a board of transparency that is far from politics. Article 4.6 deals with protecting whistleblowers from cases of corruption at the university. Article 15 - take note - speaks of antiplagiarism software, of the obligation to pass through antiplagiarism software all theses and works; the obligation, by the way, to publish doctoral theses and end-of-course works. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, what exactly are you afraid of all these measures so that the only law, the only one, that has vetoed all that has been dealt with is this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Article 80 applies. He may intervene, but Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure applies in response to the question put to him. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I would remind you that Rule 80 applies to all honourable Members, both in the oral questions and in the rest of the speeches. I am reminding the President of the Government, as I will remind any of you if the content is different. In that case, the answerer does so to the question that has been asked to him.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u20	Madam President, time...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u21	It is controlled by the Presidency. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, you, when you supported the previous government, did veto the laws in the Bureau of Parliament. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause.- Mrs Hernanz Costa: A lot!]] Now, on the other hand, you seem to be quite scrupulous. I would like to tell you, Mr Rivera, that this government governs with Parliament and not against Parliament, which is what the previous government you supported did. I will tell you something else, Mr Rivera, we have not vetoed any law either in economic or political terms. What's the problem? That you have a sort of professional and technical legal incapacity to present your bills to this Congress. [[Applauds]] In any case, I'm going to tell you one thing, Mr. Rivera, and I'm going to tell the Congress of Deputies as a whole. Indeed, I have been President of the Government for 102 days and it is clear that when you take on these kinds of responsibilities you have sour feelings, and I have to tell you that for me yesterday was a day, personally, complicated, difficult, because I lost a friend who was doing an extraordinary job as Minister of Health. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing, Mr Rivera, to answer your question: We assume our political responsibility. Mrs Montón has chosen the path of exemplary and political responsibility, which is so difficult for others to take, but I will tell you, Mr Rivera, that we assume our political responsibility. Keep that argument, because assuming political responsibilities is also voting in favour of political change in the motion of censure and not letting and perpetuating the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] If it had been for his vote, Mr Rajoy would have remained President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u23	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u24	Mr. President, there are reasonable doubts about the publication of your doctoral thesis; there are reasonable doubts because you are one of the few people who makes a doctoral thesis and hides it. And if that coincides with the veto on a law that obliges it to be published, Mr. President, there are reasonable doubts. I ask you to dispel any doubt, for the sake of public education in Spain - not for you either for me or for anyone else, to dispel any doubt - make your thesis public. Let us put an end to the suspicion, let us put an end to the reasonable doubt, because if we are in the Cifuentes case, the Montón case and the Married case, there cannot be a case President of the Government. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, you make public that thesis which is one of the articles you have vetoed. There is an obligation under that law to publish doctoral theses. If you want to dispel doubts, I invite you to make your doctoral thesis public. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u25	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u26	Mr Rivera, in relation to my doctoral thesis and the degree in economics, what I have to tell you is that the thesis is published in accordance with the legislation. It's hanging in Thesseo and you're... [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] Of course it is, so be sure you're well informed because it is, Mr. Rivera, yes it is. Well, you'll say no. What happens is that you, as in many other things, do not prepare questions. Anyway, it doesn't matter. You've turned your parliamentary question into a laudable... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u27	Thank you very much. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, continues to speak from his seat]] Time's up. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, continues to speak]] Mr. President, time is up. Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Protests Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the implementation of the Regulation in all its aspects. When I referred earlier to the specific case we were witnessing, it is because the Rules of Procedure, in Rule 188, always provide - and so does the Article on the question - that when one intervenes at any time in this Chamber he has to adjust - of course, within the freedom of expression that we all have - to what one raises. In this sense, the implementation of the Presidency is always done in the same way and that is the case for all your ladies and gentlemen. I try to do this always with equanimity, with the risk of being wrong like anyone else, but know that the application of the Regulation is always the same. I will therefore call on the question when it is necessary to do so, and I will remind those who have the right to reply to what they have been asked before, within the freedom of expression and within the flexibility that this Presidency must have and which it seeks to apply. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we all comply, I first, with the Rules of Procedure. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS THAT ENSURE THE CONVIVENCE OF ALL CATALANS ARE GUARANTEEED? [[File number 180/00699]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u28	Question addressed to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mrs Dolors Montserrat from the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u29	Thank you, President. Vice-President, yesterday was celebrated the Diada de Cataluña, which should have been a Diada of coexistence and all Catalans, and was once again a Diada of sectarianism and excluding independence; that independence that segregates us into Catalans of the first, sitting on that bench, and Catalans of the second, subjects without rights and without freedoms. With that Torra who insults the king, with that Torra who threatens to attack the State, who will not abide by the judicial sentences, who will open the prisons and who has closed the Parliament; with those Catalan independenceist politicians who reopen the embassies to speak ill of Spain and of the Spanish, who again fatten that propaganda and hate machine that is TV3 and who chase the Catalans to withdraw the bonds that divide. Given this reality, where is the Government of Spain? What is the Government of Spain doing? Why, why has the Spanish Socialist Workers Party abandoned most Catalans? In the face of these facts, in the face of this account, do you still think that these are just unacceptable phrases? What is absolutely unacceptable is that in Spain they govern the votes of Otegi, Torra and Rufián and that they are not the votes of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] What is absolutely unacceptable and embarrassing is that Torra's menacing fist is the hand that wiggles the cradle in Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u30	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montserrat, look where we are going to agree this morning on one thing: that the Diada had to be the feast of all Catalans, of the coexistence of all Catalans, but this government has guaranteed the freedoms and rights of all Catalans, Mrs Montserrat, of all Catalans and of the rest of the Spanish. And those generalities that, as a story, are quite good for you, as well as for your entire parliamentary group and your party for many years now, right now, here, I am concrete in something. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u32	Mrs. Montserrat. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u33	Vice-President, yesterday, President Sánchez spoke of dialogue, Borrell spoke of dialogue - we forgot about that Borrell on October 8 - and you are sure to talk to me about dialogue. What do you mean by dialogue? Meeting in Madrid in secret with Elsa Artadi? Is this what you call dialogue? You, who has been in government for a hundred days, how many times have you gone to Catalonia to meet with the royal Catalonia? Catalonia is getting out of hand. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u35	Their false appeasement leads us nowhere; nowhere, because the independenceists are insatiable and their only goal is to break Spain. Rectify, re-defend the coexistence of all Catalans, re-defend legality in Catalonia, and then you will always have the support of the People's Party. We'll be here and we'll be waiting for you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u36	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u37	Thank you, President. Mrs Montserrat, to put it mildly: do you tell me, that it was government? Are you telling me that you have been responsible for the social rights you have abandoned? Are you telling me, that you are Catalan, of a political party like yours that has been asking for signatures against the Statute of Catalonia since 2006? [[Applauds]] From a government that has abandoned dialogue because perhaps they do not understand that in democracy to make politics is to meet the other and find the resolution of conflicts in a peaceful way? Are you telling me that you have not learned anything from everything we have experienced and that perhaps you have some way out for Catalonia that is not to sit down? Are you telling me, that you have debuted here as a spokesperson voting against a proposal against child poverty, a protest against the universalization of public health? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: To the question!]] [[Applauds]] Mrs Montserrat, do you tell me that you do not know that in democracy the opposition also has responsibilities, which we had when we were opposed to you in a constitutional crisis? Are you telling me, that you cannot understand that there is no other way out to speak, that there is no other way out to take part of the Spanish territory back into the constitutional framework? Are you telling me that you have done absolutely nothing but bring this conflict and this crisis to the limit of giving it exclusively to justice? [[Rumors]] You tell me because you haven't learned anything. But you have responsibilities here, even if only one. Put yourself behind the government because this parliamentary group has put itself behind the government of which you were a minister. [[Applauds]] Put yourself behind the government, which is what Spanish democracy forces you to solve this crisis in Catalonia. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MAJOR RAFAEL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: Has CITIZEN CORINNA ZU SAYN-WITTGENSTEIN PARTICIPATED IN THE ACTIVITIES OF THE DIPLOMATIC OR SPANISH CONSULAR BODY? [[File number 180/00690]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u38	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u39	Madam Vice-President, we would like to know whether Mrs Corinna Larsen participated in the activities of the Spanish diplomatic corps.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u40	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u41	Madam President, we do not hear well today; at least we do not hear well the speeches. Mr. Mayor, this government can respond to what you do and what you know. And from what you do and know, I can tell you that our diplomatic and consular corps, our external service of the State, fulfils all its obligations and also the ethical requirements of democracy that we are in the world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u42	Mr. Mayoral, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u43	The answer leaves many questions: why did Corinna Larsen participate in official meetings with Spanish diplomats? Did he do it on behalf of the king? Why are we trying to gag Parliament to avoid talking here about what is being discussed on the street, in the media, on social media? Why does reality have to be alien to this House? Today we are dealing here with the right of the people of Spain to know whether the highest institution of the State is a suitable instrument for corruption. People want to know if being head of state gives them the right to become a supermillionaire through commissions and to have accounts in tax havens. We and we are democrats, and that is why we believe that all state magistrates are to be granted access either through elections or on the basis of equality, merit and capacity. But that is not what is in doubt right now. Systematic corruption has served the elites to control the State without running for election. Much has been said about corruption in this country, but the big question to be answered is whether Juan Carlos de Borbón and Borbón is Mr X of corruption. The king's inviolability does not deprive people of their right to know the truth and I believe that the first ones who should be interested in it are the monarchical parties. It is forty years of the Constitution, the protocol points out that the logical thing would be for Juan Carlos I to address this House. Then why is it a problem that answers the questions of representatives elected by the people? The people have the right to know what the king was doing while millions of jobs were being destroyed and where he had his money while he was severing in health care, education, pensions or social services. We claim the right to the truth of the working people who have kept this country afloat with their effort and sacrifice while being looted from tax havens. We need rigour, seriousness and exemplaryness in every sense. Everyone, especially people with public responsibilities, has a duty to observe proper behavior, exemplary behavior. These last words were spoken by Juan Carlos de Borbón and Borbón. Now, let them become facts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u44	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u45	Thank you, President. Mr Mayor, believe me that I very much respect your right to ask because that is your duty and my duty to answer you and all the members of the House and, by the way, I thank you for not changing the question that you intended to ask in an incorrect way, even if the Rules allow. With regard to the responsibility of this Government, on 25 July the head of the CNI, with the rank of Secretary of State, provided information in a Commission in this House on all that we could say about the responsibility of this Government. The head of state - I do not know monarchical parties, I know respect for the head of state because it is respect for our Constitution - has had in the last few days in this House a report from the lawyers, which the Bureau has endorsed with an important majority, on what are the strictly constitutional legal conditions. You may think, like any other citizen, what you think is appropriate, but as far as irregularities are concerned, it will be the judges, the judges and the courts who have the last word and not, of course, this House. But look, as I said at the beginning that I very much respect your right to ask and control the Government, I will tell you that as far as this Government has been able to find out to answer you, we cannot confirm in any way that meeting that you have commented that occurred, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been able to investigate; indeed, with an ambassador who is no longer, who is retired, who is out of public service. What is important is that you know that, under the responsibility of this Government, the diplomatic corps and the foreign service will be limited to the constitutional functions that are strictly assigned to them. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL MARIA JESUS BONILLA DOMÍGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHEN IS THE MINISTER GOING TO DIMIT? [[File number 180/00706]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u46	She is now asking the Minister of Justice. Question by María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u47	Thank you, President. Minister, when are you going to resign? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u48	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Bonilla, I'm not resigning. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u50	Silence! Mrs. Bonilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u51	Last June, the independenceist politicians fleeing the Spanish justice system civilly sued the magistrate of the Supreme Court, Don Pablo Llarena, the instructor of the Spanish criminal proceedings against them for, among others, the crimes of rebellion and the embezzlement of public funds. Faced with these serious facts, this demand which clearly and instrumentally, as you acknowledged yesterday in this House, all you intend to do is subject the sovereign decisions of the Spanish State to foreign jurisdiction, an attack - this clear demand - on the judicial independence of the Spanish magistrate, before this attitude you, Minister, with an intolerable discharge of duties, left the judge alone and did not defend Spanish jurisdictional sovereignty. Well, beyond what you told us yesterday in this House and in the Senate and the contradictions, what you know is that from July 10th, when you are aware of the filing of the complaint, until August 23rd, you, and by means of a press release, acknowledge that you will defend the jurisdiction and immunity of the jurisdiction of the Spanish courts, making it very clear in that press release that in no case will you assume the defence of the Spanish magistrate. This, Minister, is what it means to leave the magistrate behind and to leave Spain's sovereignty behind. You know very well that August 23rd is when you communicate that. On 24 August, the Vice-President ratified it and it was already in La Moncloa on 26 August when it was disallowed and said that the judge and the jurisdiction would be defended. Madam Minister, I do not know the reasons why you have betrayed the defence of sovereignty. You were perfectly aware of the State Attorney's reports of 31 July and 17 August. He knew how the General Council of the Judiciary had granted him protection and did not act. He knew all the demonstrations of the judges and did not act. She acted only when she was pressured and rectified by the President of the Government. Madam Minister, it is hard, but you have betrayed the interests of Spain, sovereignty and must resign. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u52	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Bonilla, ask your partner, Mrs Moro, for my presentation at my appearance yesterday and you will explain it to her and you will understand it very well. [[Rumors]] First of all, I will not resign because this Government is functioning and is working. You have led us to a situation of institutional degeneration that we are struggling to lift can't imagine how much. There was a great social displeasure over the constant dripping of cases of corruption, which has demonstrated the existence of systemic corruption in the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Government actions were paralysed. Since this government is carrying Spain, the government of President Sánchez, decisions have been made, work is being done on social services, there is dialogue. [[rumors]] [[Mr. MartínezMaíllo Toribio: On the subject. On the subject.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u54	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u55	We are working for equality, development, social cohesion, territorial cohesion and coexistence, Mrs Bonilla. Now we're not just talking about corruption, we're talking about politics. I will not resign because my name does not appear in summaries such as, for example, Púnica, Lezo, Gürtel, Pokemon, Brugal or Palma Arena. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u56	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u57	I've never paid deferred compensation. My name doesn't come out on any lists either as Dolores D. or as D. Delgado. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u58	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u59	In the face of its six years, in these hundred days the Ministry of Justice has recovered the dialogue with the legal operators, we have convened the pay table, we have started the repeal of the harmful article 324 and we have agreed legal reforms, because we intend to continue in the line of transparency and the modernization of justice. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u61	And, in addition to all that, I have had time to defend the sovereignty of Spanish jurisdiction with all its consequences. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u62	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMAN DURING COSTS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE THIRD MONTHS THINK IT IS MORE THREE TODAY? [[File number 180/000700]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u63	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mr Ramón Moreno Bustos from the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u64	Do you think, Minister, that Spanish Radio is more plural today than three months ago? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u65	Thank you very much. Quiet. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u66	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, I think that today Spanish public television is more plural than it was just four months ago. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u68	Basically, ladies and gentlemen, because it has ceased to exert the pressure that the previous government was exerting, a fierce political control over this entity, I would say that even violating the principle of impartiality that must be presided over by a means of public communication, a fact that has been denounced on numerous occasions by the workers of this entity. [[rumors]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of the future that is following Spanish Television, which is recovering the criterion of objectivity that must preside over its actions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u69	Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u70	Minister, the Spanish Radiotelevision Administrator is unique, unique as a synonym for absolute, arbitrary and reckless power, unique as an example of an implacable purge dictated and executed without glances, unique as an unusual case of anger and persecution. The Spanish Radiotelevision administrator is also temporary, and temporary is synonymous with something temporary, something transitory, fleeting and interim. The two conclusions of both terms, unique and provisional, are clear. The first, Spanish Radiotelevision purifies for dozens those responsible for the information spaces without the slightest contemplation or respect, including Tertullians, technicians and all those who passed through there. The second, Spanish Television loses the first month of audience leadership of television news in Spain and its new bets reap painful results, after twenty-two consecutive months of being the first. And it is that the information bias imposed now on Spanish RadioTV is the one that marks the partners of the motion of censure. That is why it is now heard in Spanish Radio Television that the independenceists and terrorists are political prisoners, that Spain and Catalonia are two equivalent and polarized countries or that it is possible to censor a report on the hundred days of Mr Sánchez's government. We'll be back very soon to see on screen 'Vota PSOE' in a goal of the Spanish team, and of this matter the sole administrator knows a lot. This so inconvenient and regrettable attitude of the Government in Spanish Radio-television can only be due to the fact that if one can govern with eighty-four deputies and without passing through the ballot boxes, why can't one control Spanish Radio-television without a board of directors, without any transparency and without giving explanations? Stop purging professionals and manoeuvring the organization chart of the corporation through third parties. Stop paying political favors with this public service. They no longer destroy what was reasonably good and rectify, which is the only thing they know how to do. We've moved from black Fridays to blacklists. They've made that frantic transit at full speed. Respect the professionals, be sensible and stop suffocating. Soon their ties and t-shirts fell off. The assault has been a success and the spoils are now being distributed; that is their credibility, rectification and deception. At least keep the forms, please, minister, although knowing how you spend them among yourselves, I see it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u71	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u72	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mr Moreno, I do not come out of my astonishment at the political outburst with which the People's Party talks about matters and issues that are well known to the public that you manipulated. You do not fail to surprise us with that kind of relief you do in the control sessions, in which you try as a boomeran to move issues that you know perfectly well. I do not know if you remember that the European Parliament itself, when you were governing, asked the Spanish Government for explanations to talk about the political plurality of Spanish Television; that seems to have been forgotten by you. You don't remember when the Spanish TV news council warned of bad practices, censorship, manipulation, etc. In 2017, his report highlighted up to 230 examples, to the extent that it was said that in an information services directive the argumentary of the People's Party was transferred to a journalist with the intention of using it to produce news. Don't you remember, Mr. Moreno, that lack of plurality? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are showing that the professionalism in the work that has to be developed is also being recognised by the workers themselves; this has been the case after the election of the leadership, in which there has been support from this very important group in relation to the previous. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, this political television, public television is more plural, of course than politics... [[........................................................................]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u73	Time's up, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DOING: HOW IS THIS GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT TO SUBJECT TAXES TO BE TAKEN A cabo won't affect the majority of the Spaniards? [[File number 180/00703]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u74	Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, in the last hundred days you have announced that you will raise the tax to diesel - which affects 18 million vehicles, 80% of carriers and 100% of the agricultural sector - and the IRPF, although you have not yet clarified how; you will create a tax on financial transactions and another new one for the bank, which will restrict credit and increase commissions for all customers, uniquely for the most modest - individuals, SMEs and self-employed - you will raise the tax on companies, which will affect the competitiveness of companies and therefore employment; you will raise the tax on savings, which will affect investment and therefore also employment; you will create a tax on technology; you will raise the contributions to self-employed. Do you really want to convince us, as Mr. Iglesias tried, his economic spokesman, that paying more than 80% of the self-employed is a drop in social contributions? Mrs Montero, I ask you: can you guarantee why the vast majority of Spaniards will not be affected by this tax increase? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u76	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u77	Thank you, President. Mr Olano, we are going to guarantee this by pursuing a policy that is different from that of the People's Party, which I would like to remind you that, up to more than forty times, taxes have been levied on the middle class, on the working class, on all the workers in this country, on small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] The first thing I would like to say is, therefore, that taxes are not going to be levied on those who have suffered the most during the crisis and, therefore, on those who have less income: middle working classes, self-employed, SMEs and all those who are fundamentally helping this country out of the economic crisis. This Government is determined to recover the rights of citizens, to note the economic improvement in families and, therefore, to whom we ask for an additional effort is to the large corporations; we want a new taxation that includes activities that to date were not transparent for the whole of taxation. We are talking about green taxation; we are talking about those activities that are carried out in the network and that do not have their correlation in fiscal policy, affecting the competition of the traditional sectors; or we are talking about financial transactions. Therefore, in this way, with a coherent discourse, with a way of protecting the middle and working class is how this Government will regain the rights of all citizens so that those who have the most contribute, but that we all receive according to our needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u78	Mr. De Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, your answer does not reassure us at all. You see, you're wrong at first. Just the announcements they are making already affect all citizens. The instability and loss of confidence generated by their bandages, probe balloons, rectifications and denials already affect most. Here are the employment data, the economic slowdown or the consumption stop. Mrs Montero, let me tell you that you do not do an economic policy by thinking of all the citizens; you do the economic policy that allows Mr Sánchez to maintain a chair that has not been won in the polls, but that was given to him by his partners from Podemos, PDeCAT, Esquerra Republicana and Bildu, to whom he will now pay the favor with the money of all the Spaniards. For this perpetual and costly election campaign they need more public spending, it is true, and for this they will put their hand in the pocket of the Spaniards up to 80 billion euros, just as Mr Sánchez said yesterday in the Senate; the greatest fiscal hack ever seen in the history of this country; an axe that will certainly not pay only the rich because simply and plainly - and you know it just as I do - that is impossible. Mrs Montero, the Spaniards said no in the ballot box to your election program, your economic program, and Podemos's, too. The Spaniards said no to this massive tax hike. I ask you to do the Spaniards a favor and on this occasion I do listen to them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u80	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u81	Thank you, President. Mr Olano, I think I have made it clear what the fiscal road map of the Spanish Government is. You always talk about the same; you try to scare the citizens when we ask the big corporations for an effort or we ask for an effort from those who charge or have incomes far above the average of the middle class and the working class; this is how you apply a fiscal policy. If you call an electoral campaign to recover the universality of health, to recover cuts in education, to recover everything that makes us a stronger and more robust society, you have to make it look at it, because what is an electoral campaign is just to lower taxes before an election no matter what public spending remained. That is the difference between the Government of the People's Party and the Socialist Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u82	Thank you very much. - of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in any way form the Minister of State: Is the Government willing not to do anything about the latest cases of corruption that have shocked the public opinion? [[File number 180/00689]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u83	Question now by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what steps will the government take to clear up the suspicions of corruption about the former head of state?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u86	Thank you, President. I believe that today the Vice-President has responded to her colleague in line with the specific case you are asking about the former head of state. The very wording of the question implies, Your Honor, a false premise, since it seems that this Government may know of cases of corruption to which it does not pay attention or on which it does not act with the judicial authorities as it should. Therefore, Your Honor, what I can tell you is that, as the Vice-President said this morning, the Government of Spain always knows some situation that deviates from legality, whenever it is aware of some irregularity, obviously investigates it and brings it to the attention of those who have to act. Be calm in the sense that if at any point that were known, this Government would, of course, act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u88	The truth is, Minister, you don't seem very willing to investigate. It seems incredible that, moreover, one day like today we will have to remind you that the Government is here and that you are a minister thanks not to us but to an outraged people who said that they no longer wanted more corruption from the People's Party, that they no longer wanted more impunity and that they no longer wanted to pay the privileges to a few while they were turning their backs on the burden of the crisis. Corruption is corruption comes from wherever it comes from: if it comes from the Royal House it is corruption, if it comes from the Bourbons it is also corruption and it has to be investigated on a democratic health issue, but also on a social justice issue. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u89	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u90	It seems a lie to remind you that the motion of censure came forward not only because we did not want any more corruption, but also because we did not want any more vetoes of the People's Party, and you arrive here and the first veto we find is yours refusing to appear to clarify this matter. The second is the Socialist Party's refusal to set up a committee of inquiry, which is what you say you want to do and I even had to change the question to do it today because it was also being vetoed by Congress. I do not understand what is going on, Minister, and I would like you to explain why you want to put on a gag, if it is because they are cases that bother, as Mr Ábalos says, or because they really have no interest. They're letting us down too much. The Socialist Party, as far as government is concerned, has already disappointed too much. Pedro Sánchez said, as an active and passive person, that he was going to publish the list of people who had hosted Montoro's unconstitutional amnesty; he said it as an active and passive person, but you came to the government and the first thing he said was that it could not be done. I ask you: have you tried or not because perhaps the Emeritus King appears on that list, minister? Why didn't you? I insist: citizens have the right to know what is going on, we have the right to know whether the emeritus king has evaded taxes, whether all citizens' money has been taken to tax havens, whether he has been bitten for favoring certain contracts. Justice cannot do so because the king cannot be judged and that is why we must do so in the exercise of our functions in the Congress of Deputies. No more impunity, Mrs Montero; of course, not with our support, never with our votes, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u91	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u92	Thank you, President. Mrs Vera, do you think today is the day you can come here to give lessons of legitimacy, lessons of exemplaryness to the Socialist Party? Do you really believe that today is the day when this government can be blamed for any question concerning the legitimacy of public life or the ability to respond politically even if some may have signs of doubt? [[Applauds]] I believe that, since we arrived at the Spanish Government, we have constantly moved a message of democratic regeneration, doing so within our own ranks, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the words are left, that simply the fact that I honour my fellow banker who is not here today shows the commitment of the Government and the commitment of the Socialist Party to regain the confidence of the citizens in politics, and therefore pursuing exemplary behaviours that can serve as a reference; although some, Your Honor, as you have seen today, are not alluded to. I must remind you of the tax amnesty, which was a report by the State Attorney's Office which raised the impossibility of being able to publish it, and I would also like to say, Your Honor, that no political group can supplant the judiciary, just as no political group can supplant the investigations that the organs, including the Tax Agency, have to do about... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u93	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT ANNOUNCING A GENERALIZED SUBJECT OF TAXES HELPS TO KEEP THE STABILITY OF THE SPANISH ECONOMY? [[File number 180/00693]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u94	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, inheritance tax, introduction of a 15% effective taxation floor; tax on digital services, online advertising, digital brokerage; tax on the banking sector, i.e. savers; Tobin's tax on financial transactions, which was certainly rejected by James Tobin himself; IRPF with a marginal rate of 52, which in some communities can reach 55%, will be among the highest in the world; diesel taxes, 17 million diesel vehicles; plastic stock exchange tax; upward harmonisation of inheritance and property tax; increase of social contributions to self-employed persons earning more than €40,000 per year; offset of contribution bases and increase of contributions for shorter contracts. Do you believe that this widespread rise in taxes helps to maintain economic stability in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u96	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u97	Thank you, President. Mr Girauta, I have commented on this following the question from another parliamentary group this morning, but in case there has been any doubt, I will repeat it to you again: this government is not going to raise taxes to the middle class or to the working class, to the SMEs, to the self-employed or to the transport workers or to any of the sectors that are keeping this country with a huge sacrifice. This Government is working on a new taxation for the twenty-first century in which there are areas of activity, as I mentioned to the previous spokesman, on green taxation, on the development of activities on social networks and, therefore, tasks or issues that were not covered by the current taxation; on all the elements that may have an impact on the future also on some of the population's consumption, as well as on women's VAT, these taxes will be lowered. In short, it is a fiscal policy of which I think you have read a short and sticky one, although I have not been able to hear it - forgive me - well because there is a problem with the noise inside the room, but I want to tell you that that was the road map of this government. I would like to remind you, Mr Girauta, that you shared many of those fiscal figures when Mr Rajoy was in the Government of Spain, that is, when he was ruling the People's Party, and it is therefore surprising that you now have a kind of competition with the People's Party to see who is proposing a more important tax rebate to weaken the welfare state. Because, ultimately, those who make a permanent flag of the tax drop without looking at what impact it has on citizens, what they are pursuing is a weakening of the welfare state, which is the most powerful redistributor of the income that this country has. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u98	Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u99	I'll tell you what's surprising. What is surprising is that after all the effort and sacrifice of the Spanish families during the crisis you come back for your sake and want to spend more on the account. Why if the collection is in historical peaks in the first five months of the year, why if the budgets are in line with the deficit target - budgets that we help make up and that you voted against - why do you want to raise taxes? For what, to please who? They're rhetorical questions. We all know that the de facto finance minister is Mr. Iglesias. I congratulate Mr. Churches and I'm sorry for you. We have demonstrated where we have had pressure capacity that we are the party that lowers the IRPF to those who do not reach the end of the month. Citizens is the party that eliminates the unjust inheritance tax that has caused business closures, farm closures - you know very well -, which has led to numerous waivers of inheritance for lack of liquidity to pay the tax. What are you guys gonna do? Are they going to follow the line of 'podemization' or are they going to go back to rationality? Please, don't make us colder on taxes, spend better, not more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u100	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u101	Thank you, President. I repeat to you, Mr Girauta, and I will do so whenever you ask me: we are going to do a different fiscal policy to protect the middle class and the working class and to ask the large business corporations to contribute more, because this country has an eight-point differential with the euro area. We are therefore going to apply a different fiscal policy because we want to reverse cuts in health, dependency, pensions or social policy, because we want this country to have a society with public services... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u102	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED PATRICIA BLANQUER ALCARAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: WHAT OTHER COMMUNITIES HAVE BEEN ACCEDED TO THE AGREEMENT OF THE COMMISSION DELEGATED BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS, OF THE MONTH OF JULY, BY WHICH THEY ARE FACILITATED THAT THEY CAN GET FINANCING FOR THE SAME ON THE FINANCIAL MARKETS? [[File number 180/000696]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u103	Question by Mrs Patricia Blanquer Alcaraz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u104	Minister, the autonomous communities support most of the welfare state, guarantee the provision of education, health and social care, a great responsibility that autonomy exercises under very different socio-economic and financial conditions and under the guidelines of the democratically elected autonomous political project in each of them, an autonomy that has been limited by extraordinary financing needs in the face of the greatest economic crisis experienced and aggravated by a model of lapsed financing that has taken on the lack of resources to be able to finance its competences. The previous government did not address the reform of the financing model when it was due and these financing needs have been met with extraordinary mechanisms that until 2018 have amounted to more than 213 billion euros, a circumstance that the People's Party Government took advantage of to, at the same time as providing liquidity, to intervene by exerting a re-centralizing pressure. In just a hundred days of socialist government, it has moved from the merely interventionist strategy to a permanent and transparent dialogue with communities, involving them in decisions that affect them the most and driving the necessary political debate on their funding. It has moved from imposition to dialogued agreements, two meetings of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in two months, and agreements that have led to improvements in their financing and liquidity for communities with greater needs at the time they need it, avoiding economic suffocation that they were already experiencing with the previous Government at this time of the year. But the most significant thing has been to make it easier for healthy ones who can go out to the markets to obtain financing on their own, taking advantage of the most favourable conditions that the financial market can offer them, a measure contained in one of the agreements of the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs in July. Therefore, Minister, we would like to know which communities have asked you to benefit from this agreement which allows you to gain financial independence, to be able to go out to the market, to obtain the best possible funding and, most importantly, to be able to develop your autonomous project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u105	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u106	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that firmly believes in the configuration of the state of autonomy. We believe in the essential role they play in defending the welfare state, and I want to say publicly the very important contribution they have made so that Spain can move forward in reducing the deficit and can meet the stability objectives that Europe places on it. They have made an extraordinary effort to safeguard public services, which have been fundamental as a safety mattress for citizens during the crisis. And that is why we are determined to have a financial improvement with fiscal oxygen measures, such as the two tenths proposed on the stability path, which we in this Parliament, of course, have to vote and approve - and I call again on the parliamentary groups to look at it - or with the rationalization of the debt structure they had so far. I would like to say, Your Honor, that - as you have rightly reported - the People's Party Government used this situation of financial asphyxiation to further provoke a contradiction in the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. In fact, the situation caused the FLA - the so-called community support mechanism - to re-centralize much of the competencies that resided in autonomous communities and, therefore, to have a dependency beyond what would be strictly reasonable in relation to the possibility of conducting their policy and making the decisions that correspond to their commitment to the citizens. That is why the Government has been working since the first day so that those communities that met certain criteria laid down by the Delegated Commission on Economic Affairs could request their exit to the markets. In this sense, it has been two communities that have so far requested it - the Autonomous Community of Andalusia and the Community of the Balearic Islands - and so will be communities that will soon be able to issue debt and can therefore recover - as I said - part of that financial autonomy that was stolen from them by the FLA alibi during the times of the economic crisis. We will continue to insist that the rest of the autonomous communities work in this direction because there will be no normality in the functioning of the autonomous communities until the majority can carry out this... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THE POLICY OF HIS MINISTERY AGAINST MIGRANT CHALLENGES? [[File number 180/00701]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u107	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Firstly, a question from Mr Carlos Rojas García of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President, with your veneration. Minister, the Spanish promote the values of respect for human rights, solidarity and international cooperation. We want legal immigration, ordered and linked to the employment contract, to cooperate with Africa and to fight against the mafias. I am convinced that you think like me but, of course, your Government has given so much havoc over the past three months in immigration policy that it is not right to see a horizon. What are your challenges? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u109	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. You have clearly defined the migration policy of this Government, which did not exist in the previous one: a determined policy, a coherent policy, a prevention policy and a security policy. A human security policy that involves both respect for the human rights of migrants and strengthening the security of our borders and allow me to thank the performance and professionalism of the State Security Forces and Bodies in this area. Having therefore the migration crisis with which we have encountered and in parameters of cooperation - because we understand that it is a question of the European Union - in our framework we have already proceeded to an extension of a temporary care center in San Roque in the port of Algeciras, we have also expanded in the port of Motril, as you can well know from its origins. In the Asylum Office - which you had abandoned - we have generated an extraordinary offer of public employment where we will give or try to give satisfaction to all citizens who seek international protection. We have a coordinating authority in the strait. In the field of prevention, we have links, this minister has travelled both to the countries of origin and to the countries of transit in order to make a ferret cooperation in the field of immigration. That is fundamentally our challenge. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Rojas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u112	Minister, your immigration policy has been a mess in the last three months, I say it with the utmost respect. Members of your Government have acknowledged that with the Aquarius there was a so-called effect that opened the door to the mafias and, in fact, you yourself rectified with the second Aquarius not recognizing the error, which certainly has less value. I thank you, but that has been the policy of the Government: corrections and bandages. There has to be coordination and there isn't. The Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security said that the centers were overflowing and you said at the same time that no alarm was created, that that was false. They need to strengthen the State Security Forces and Bodies. You support them, of course - I would miss more!-, I know and I don't question it. I'm just asking you not to use immigration again as a partisan matter. Three months ago, the President of the Government and the PSOE criticized the police and the previous Government for not entering the border, called it as they know - hotly returned and appealed to the Constitutional Court saying that the dignity and privacy of the people were violated. Now you're hitting a bandage and expelling 116 immigrants across the border. Your Honor, why is it that when the People's Party rules it is a criminal act and when the PSOE does it it is an act of state? I demand a correction from the Government of the Socialist Party and also an apology to the State Security Forces and Bodies and this parliamentary group. There must be certainty, Your Honor, and there is no certainty here; you say that the concertinas are going to be removed and replaced by a less invasive system. Well, where's the system, Your Honor? Why don't you talk about the new system when it's implanted? Don't you see that any government loophole is an open door to the mafias, Your Honor? There has to be a state pact here and there isn't, unfortunately. Last August 8 - you have quoted Motril - more than 100 immigrants slept on a boat, gave them cubes to do their needs. You have turned the rescue ships into a CATE, Your Honor, and that is very worrying. There is a clear responsible and the responsible is the one who asks for twelve more years of government and in twelve weeks has been able to put Spain in a mint. But Spain is not sold, Minister. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u113	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u114	Madam President. Mr. Rojas, I think you're living another reality. This government has not given any bandages. The Aquarius 1 was a call for an alert to solidarity within the framework of the European Union, which you had not done. As a result, there is already a group of countries in the European Union, led by Spain, France, Germany, Portugal and Greece, a group that is already leading another way to tackle the problem of migration. That's not it. The Aquarius 2 was proof of this, where solidarity already reigned and where there was a share of quotas in that regard. You tell me about the protection of the agents of authority. The return of immigrants who violently attacked the agents was materialized in terms of legality. You didn't protect the agents. We are also working on the border of Ceuta, to give them greater coverage, greater security and without, of course, any violation of human rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u115	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR CREATE THAT IS A GOOD LETTER OF PRESENTATION TO ESTABLISH A DIALOGUE TO SEND 600 POLICIES MORE TO CATALUNE TO REPRINT THE CATALANS? [[File number 180/00694]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u116	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. You know me badly, Minister, because you've been on a complicated morning. Mr. Casado has accused them of Bolivians and Mrs. Montserrat - by copying that phrase of Rivera that so much likes the cave - has accused them of being collaborators with the Government of Torra and Rufián. On top of that, I'm going yellow today, so it's already the hog. The question is this. You, who have been filling the mouths of the words dialogue, coexistence, etc. for a hundred days, have sent 600 national police officers to the National Day of Catalonia. Do you think that has to do with dialogue and coexistence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. It is difficult to answer your question because you have already given the answer, but obviously the State Security Forces and Corpses will not repress, the State Security Forces and Corpses will guarantee a space where all citizens can exercise their rights and freedoms. In this regard, I would like to point out that in Catalonia there are some 2,800 police officers and some 2,600 civilian guards guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens. That question which you referred to on 6 September has already been expressed and given the reasons in the Security Board, which is the board where the policies of coordination and collaboration between the whole of the State Security Forces and Corpses are raised and there they understood, addressed and considered them more than reasonable, having reached agreements that I believe are the basis of this Government, of dialogue within the law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u121	Minister, I say to you: No, it has nothing to do with dialogue or coexistence, not even with that progressive government that you boast of being, sending 600 national police officers to the Diada. More than anything because sending 600 national police officers to the Diada, to a Diada in which in the last seven or eight years, with millions of people, has not broken a single trash - that is, it is not a manifestation neither of Citizens nor of Catalan Civil Society, in short, of the extreme right that end in sticks - it is not a reinforcement but it is an occupation, and I say it to you clearly. Mr Marlaska, I mentioned this to you in the Committee on the Interior and I repeat it to you again. You are brave, you have shown it at some point in your professional career, I ask you to answer me: does it seem normal to you, does it seem democratic that your parliamentary group veto questions about national police physically assaulting political dissent in Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u122	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u123	I reiterate to you once again that the agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses guarantee the exercise of the rights and freedoms of all citizens. I remind you that, simply, a Champions final motivates a deployment of two thousand agents; you're talking about six hundred. When there are public, social events, such as the Diada, such as those that can be held in September to commemorate other events, obviously the public space is to be guaranteed. Yesterday the Diada was celebrated and, as you say, did not act any State security force or body. Why? Because they were peaceful citizens, as it should be, of course. I would like to point out again that these are simply prevention issues and issues that tend to ensure. And to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens we must start from prevention, because if we do not prevent it then it is when we can act disproportionately. And this is what this government doesn't want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u124	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DO YOU HAVE AN EXTRAORDINARY DEVICES OF MORE THAN MILLION AGENTS TO CATALUNIA AND HOW THEY PUBLISH OTHER MEDIA OF COMMUNICATION? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00695]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u125	Question by Mr. Mikel Legarda Uriarte, of the Basque Parliamentary Group Forward, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u126	Yes, thank you very much, President. Minister, we ask you about the decision to send Civil Guard and National Police to ensure public safety in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u127	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Legarda, I must reiterate what I have already said to Mr Rufián. The question of deploying 600 more agents in Catalonia these days is prevention work aimed at ensuring - I say again - the public space for all citizens for the case - that I am convinced that it is not going to happen - that it is disturbed unduly and in a serious way and we must cooperate and collaborate with the Mossos d'Esquadra. I repeat: the main function of guaranteeing public safety is for the Mossos d'Esquadra, but we have an obligation to cooperate directly with them in the event of any situation - which I am convinced is not going to happen - that disturbs the exercise of rights and freedoms. I say again that deployment is a consequence of guaranteeing the exercise of rights and freedoms, not of repressing. Our State Security Forces and Bodies do not repress. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u130	Minister, the dispatch of anti-disturbations to Catalonia was already a year ago and we know what happened, how it was valued by public opinion and international organizations in the field of human rights and public freedoms, and criminal cases continue to be opened for those proceedings. A year ago we told the Minister of the Interior that the shipment was a mistake; the facts gave us reason, and now we have the same opinion. Sending these anti-disturbations when the Generalitat has not claimed them we believe it is an unnecessary measure. To resort to the police in the face of a situation that, above all, demands dialogue and negotiation is a political mistake and, in addition, we consider it a bad idea. But this measure is also a legal mistake if we are to intervene directly in matters of public order outside the scope of legality. We told the former minister, and now you, that the current statute does not allow the application in Catalonia of articles 38 and 42 of the Law on Forces and Bodies for the displacement, in this way, of those police forces. But also to send anti-disturbations to Catalonia without having demanded it the Generalitat in the field of its competences of public order is not to know the principle of loyalty that must inspire the exercise of the competences and relations between public administrations. Minister, we ask you that these anti-disturbations in no case be used to condition the citizen's right to freedom of expression through the display of symbols that express and disseminate their ideas and opinions in the ways and other spaces for citizen use and enjoyment. As the Ombudsman says, these spaces are the sphere of plurality and it is for the Catalan authorities to order their use so that no public opinion of the citizenry can be preterred, but in no way allow it to be prevented from expressing what is not shared. Minister, we ask you again to reconsider the measure. Minister, don't be inconclusive. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u131	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. I must reiterate to you that it was the principle of institutional loyalty that led to bringing it to the attention of the Interior Council of the Government of Catalonia. There was talk on the Security Board and there was no criticism but quite the contrary, so I am surprised that here, and by other parliamentary forces, the opposite is said when important agreements were reached on the Security Board itself, to which I refer; I refer to the Minutes and to what was agreed there, to the press conference that was subsequently held and understood, which is why I am concerned. Yes, we have jurisdiction over law and order, and it is not article 42, as you say, of Law 2/1986, but articles 38 and 46, not 42. I will also tell you, in line with article 17 of the Statute of the Basque Country, that it also allows the intervention of the State Security Forces, the Police and the Civil Guard, not only in aid but in serious situations and thus considered by the central authority. Again I insist that we have no desire for intervention, we only want prevention, to guarantee rights and freedoms and within this guarantee of rights and freedoms in the public space that everyone can express himself publicly. I believe that this government has demonstrated this, but we also have, of course, the responsibility to ensure this public space for all citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u133	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE PEDRO DETAILED ITURB, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: HAS THE MINISTER OF FOOD MADE FOLLOW-UP TO THE APPLICATION, BY AIRLINES, OF THE 75 % DISCOUNT ON THE VOICES BETWEEN CANARIES AND THE PENINSULA, AS WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRICE OF THESE PASSAGES? [[File number 180/00691]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u134	Question to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Has the Ministry of Promotion followed up on the application by the airlines of the 75% discount on flights between the Canary Islands and the Peninsula, as well as the evolution of the price of these tickets?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u136	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Since the Ministry we have been carrying out continuous follow-up work to verify the proper functioning of the air markets, including the average level of prices, which we have reinforced in recent months due to the entry into force of the new bonuses. With the data currently available, we observe an initial increase in the sales of air tickets bonusd on flights with the Peninsula by more than 40% over the same period of the previous year, which in the particular case of the Canary Islands rises to slightly more than 50%. In relation to the charges applied on these journeys, the companies have a legal period of two months to liquidate the subsidy practised before the Administration. However, according to our follow-up from the Connectivity and Pricing Observatory, I assure you that in the event of a situation that puts connectivity or territorial cohesion at risk, we will have a market view that will allow us to make the most appropriate decisions. Furthermore, as far as the operation of the reservation platforms is concerned, no unlawful behaviour has been detected to date. In any case, we are working on improving the reform system in such a way that when the price arises, before asking about the resident status, it gives us the price so that we can then clearly see the bonus reflected in relation to the initial rate. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u138	Lord Quevedo; go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u139	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Ábalos. Look: there is a high level of coincidence and I am also glad to hear that it seems to be being alerted, but I have to tell you that there is a first case of deficit in the implementation of this measure, of a clear delay of an airline as reported by a whaler consumer association, Consubal, and then recognized the ministry and insisted before the airline - which we agree - that it was necessary to fulfill its obligations. What has to happen in these cases is that there must be an exemplary sanction, Minister. Because it's okay to warn but we really think this can't stay that way because if it doesn't give the feeling that these things, well...! Once it became clear that the famous New Canarias amendment which gave rise to this in the State's General Budgets was of immediate application, I have to say that, as you know, this amendment speaks of strict follow-up, as you have proposed; but I am going to tell you one thing and it is that as much follow-up as is going to happen, and it is that in a situation of clear increase in demand the airlines, in respect of their tariff freedom, will tend to abuse yes or yes. There is only one definitive solution which is the establishment of an open public service obligation, which means not only for the deficit lines. And you know why? Because it is the only way to set reference prices so that companies in the end do not end up doing something that is difficult to control as it is to abuse a situation of excessive demand. This isn't climbing Everest, huh? That is: we have to talk to the European Union and in the case of the Canary Islands use the status of ultraperipheral status. And then there's another consideration that needs to be made clear. In Spanish law, the possibility of establishing a public service obligation is perfectly supported from the legal point of view. As you know, the Fiscal, Administrative and Social Measures Act of 1997, as amended by the State General Budgets of 2010, approves the possibility of establishing public service obligations. In the case of the recently approved Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, exactly the same applies.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u141	Mr Quevedo, we clearly share your concern. It is also true that this monitoring clause was in the Budget Act and we are following it with the same concern as you. In the case you comment, of a particular company, we address it twice. The first, for not having the platform available before, once we get the bonus agreement. And the next one, because in the case of Baleares disappeared for the residents. It's healed. The truth is that we haven't found any bad intentions in it. The proposal that makes us can be considered, I think, justified. What is happening is that what was up to this Government was the mandate that we had with regard to the regulated tariff subsidy, which is the great debate that we have had. In any case, for the next budget we are considering adding an additional 207 million for the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u142	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GERADO CAMPS DEVESA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE EMPLOYMENT DATA OF THE MONTH OF AUGUST? [[File number 180/00705]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u143	Questions now to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. He asked, first of all, Mr Gerardo Camps Devesa, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Minister: How do you rate the employment data for last August here in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u146	Thank you, President. Mr Camps, the August data show the strong seasonality and precariousness of the labour market in Spain. By the way, what you left behind as an inheritance and to which this Government is already seeking a solution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u147	Mr. Camps, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I think we can agree on something: we are not all the same; and with your answer we have seen ourselves. [[Rumors]] Look: I will never tell you on behalf of my parliamentary group that this data is the mirage of an exhausted and dying government, as you said even when unemployment went down and social security membership went up. I will not tell you that this data is typical of an ultra-temporal labour market model with wages of poverty, as you said about data much better than last August. And I will not tell you, as you did, that when the Minister says that things are gradually getting better in the labour market, it is obscene. He said this statement, Minister, forty-three days ago; forty-three days ago we have moved from the historical record of creating 469900 jobs to the worst number of membership in the last ten years. From a Spain of opportunities to a Spain, in words I borrow, who is already afraid of unemployment taking place in the corner. It has taken less than a hundred days of government to bring about what had never happened - listen, minister - in our work history: to destroy in one day 333107 jobs. Neither on the last day of the worst month of August nor on the worst month for the employment of our history, January 2009 - of course, of course, socialist government - were so many jobs destroyed in one day. It is a fact that should concern you and occupy you and not just you, but the entire government. Tourism is showing signs of exhaustion, industrial production is weakening, private consumption is slowing down and exports have hardly grown in the course of the year. The Minister of Economics says that nothing happens, that of Finance has a different tax model every day depending on who passes through the Moncloa and you are news because you are not able to control your own department. Madam Minister, they have been in the government for three months and it would be premature to ask for results now, but what must be demanded of them is already a responsibility. If the August data do not concern them, it would be a serious irresponsibility; if they worry and do not occupy them, it would be an irresponsibility accompanied by inefficiency, and if they worry and occupy them, tell us what they intend to do. Thank you very much. [[Apclaims.-A lady MP: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u149	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u150	Mr Camps, you know as well as I do that August is usually not a good month for employment, I repeat, motivated by the seasonality of the same and the last compasses of the summer that usually affect the service sector fundamentally. As you will understand, they are not the most desirable data and I do not want to take them out of importance, but the fact that August 31st fell on Friday, something could have influenced. We are aware that there are a number of practices of some companies, of course not all of them, which consist of giving their workers off on Fridays in order not to pay them for the weekend or during the holidays so that the holidays run by the Public Employment Service and the Public Era; practices that we intend to eradicate with the Master Plan for a Dignity Work and with the measures that are proposed within the Bureau of Social Dialogue and, in particular, in the sub-mission against the submerged economy, against tax fraud, against labour fraud and against social security fraud, by the way, in whose creation the CEO and Cepyme have placed special emphasis, which they want to put an end to the practices that promote unfair competition. You have forgotten to mention - it seems to me that you try to highlight the negative data that, of course, the government is concerned about - and you could have also highlighted, by giving us some encouragement, that is the best data of increase of indefinite recruitment in the entire historical series, 33.4%, more than 33% increase, August 2017-2018. Of course there's a long way to go and we're going to go. Fortunately, the Bureau for Social Dialogue has been reopened, we have this master plan, we are going to strengthen the creation of quality jobs and we want to eradicate precariousness, and we are going to do so with social dialogue and I hope that with political consensus also in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA TAMARA RAYA RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT PURSUANT TO GUARANTEING THE WORK RIGHTS OF PERSONS WORKING IN THE HOSTELERIA AREA, IN PARTICULAR, IN CONNECTION WITH THE ROADWORKS? [[File number 180/000697]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u151	Question by Mrs Maria Tamara Raya Rodríguez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, we are all aware of the capital importance of the tourism sector in the economy of our country and of the influence that the sector has as a generator of employment and that is concrete in the figure of 13.7% of the employment created in Spain. Tourism, therefore, is one of the main axes of the Spanish economy, but despite its importance and the record numbers of visitors that it has recorded in recent years, it has not always translated into improvements in the quality of employment that should accompany one of the phases of manifest bonanza in the tourism sector. Not only has what would be logical and desirable not happened, but the completely opposite phenomenon has occurred. In this way, it has been proved incontrovertibly that the increase in visitors has unfortunately resulted in a higher workload which has directly and negatively affected the health of workers in the sector. The floor waitresses, the workers who call themselves kellys, are a clear example of the above. It is one of the most vulnerable groups not only in the tourism sector, but in general in our country's labour market. The problem affecting housekeepers is not only confined to the level of their economic remuneration, but also aggravated by the diseases and injuries resulting from the exercise of their professional performance. So far, no physical effort has been considered to evaluate and prevent those tasks that involve the handling of light loads, even if they are repeated, nor those loads that require a greater effort - such as making beds, vacuuming rooms, rolling furniture and pulling clean cars - and that result in diseases such as carpal tunnel syndrome, bursitis or tennis elbow, among others, that are not recognized as professional diseases. Unlike the empty declarations of content and the policy of posture and mere pose that the People's Party has maintained with this collective while it has been in the government, minister, what measures does the government intend to push to guarantee the labour rights of workers in the hospitality sector? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u153	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u154	Thank you, President. Your Honour, you have no doubt that improving the protection of the labour rights of workers in the hospitality sector, especially of housekeepers, is one of the objectives of this Government. On 30 August, the Bureau for the quality of employment in the hospitality sector, within the framework of the social dialogue process, reached its first agreement in this area. Thus, an express recognition of a number of occupational diseases will be carried out through the amendment of Royal Decree 1299/2006 of 10 November, approving the occupational disease picture, responding to a historical demand of this group of workers. Pending this change to be effective, a resolution of the Directorate-General for Social Security Management, addressed to all mutual societies, on the recognition of these occupational diseases for the purpose of their immediate implementation, has also been forwarded. Two working groups will also be set up. One, in the field of occupational risk prevention, to draw up a practical guide for the assessment of occupational risks in the hospitality sector which deals in a unique way with ergonomic and psychosocial risks. In addition, in the field of training, to analyse and propose measures aimed at vocational qualification and retraining, reviewing, together with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, the training content and certifications of the regulated and dual vocational training system. Also, in order to improve the conditions of employment of this group, the Dignity Work Master Plan, recently approved by the Government, contains specific references to the hospitality sector. Based on this plan, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate has launched a gender-specific campaign focusing on workers in the tourist accommodation sector. This campaign is the first in the field of labour relations which is aimed at a specific sector of activity and which aims at a comprehensive review of the working conditions of the workers who make up the collective, paying particular attention to those who are hired through multi-service companies, but not forgetting the recruitment through temporary work enterprises. As you see, we are at work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u155	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW DOES THE MATERIAL GOVERNMENT THINK IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE THE SIGNIFICANT CHANGE THAT PROMISED THE MINISTER MERITXELL BATET FOR CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00687]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u156	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States PodemosEn Comú PodemosEn Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u157	Thank you. How do you intend to materialise in the general budgets the significant change you have promised for Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u158	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martín, we have heard and debated for months and months specific demands from a part of Catalan citizens, their political identity and their willingness to separate from Spain, but Catalonia and Catalans and Catalans, in fact, have other demands and other concerns, common and transversal, of all Catalan citizens, but also common and transversal with all Spanish citizens; in addition, demands demanded and embodied in the Constitution and the statute of autonomy. These demands would require a Government of the Generalitat to govern, but they also require General State Budgets to shape the project that this Government has for all Spanish citizens and, therefore, also for Catalonia. This project has to be translated into at least three broad lines: firstly, to undertake investment commitments in infrastructure and economic impetus to vertebrate the territory, to vertebrate Spain and to generate social cohesion; secondly, to ensure effective budget implementation; and thirdly, to recover the level of provision and quality of public services in such important issues and areas as education, health and especially dependence and access to housing. I believe that these elements can be shared with your parliamentary group and thus be able to draw general State budgets that respond to these real needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u160	Mrs. Martin, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u161	In the more than a hundred days that your party has already been in government, I think we can say that progress has been made in a fragile rapprochement between the parties, in which it is to be appreciated that political proposals for solutions are finally put on the table. Ours remains the same: referendum and recognition of plurinationality, but we also understand that the first thing is now the first and, therefore, we need to open up spaces for a distension agenda. But this agenda of distension, Minister, has to go beyond gestures, must involve direct improvements in the life of Catalan citizens, and in fact they should start by fulfilling their written commitment to withdraw the constitutional recourse from the Housing Emergency Law that Rajoy suspended as head of a government in office. But beyond that, we propose to include in the State's budgets five very concrete measures which are today an urgent matter for Catalonia. First, to recover the investment in housing and support our proposal for the municipalities to start pinching the rental bubble. In Catalonia it is where prices have risen most in recent years, but you know that the problem affects the whole state. Secondly, to repeal the decree of university exclusion; we must put an end to the assessment of PP and Convergence, which makes us in Catalonia today ashamed to be the autonomous community with the highest university fees in the whole State. Thirdly, that the promises that bipartisanism has made over the years in the area of infrastructure be truly fulfilled. We need closenesses that do not systematically cost people hours of rest and we need to push a Mediterranean corridor that does not leave Tarragona out of town. Fourthly, let the money from the State Pact against Gender Violence for the municipalities come at once; there are lives at stake and you know that the 20 million committed are totally inadequate. And fifthly, in the last seven years the state has cut its investment in the metropolitan public transport network by more than 500 million. We need to start reversing that cut so that we can lower the price of the T-10 and continue to favour sustainable mobility that reduces pollution. Minister, if you want to continue counting on us, we need good words to translate into real effects for the Catalans, and that is achieved by the five measures we propose to you today. [[Appreciation.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u162	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u163	Thank you, President. Mrs Martín, the 2019 budgets will address all the issues that you are raising for all Spanish citizens, not only for the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, but indeed for those communities that have also had autonomous governments champions in austerity and that therefore their citizens have suffered greater cuts than the average, as is the case for Catalonia, these General State Budgets are going to be significantly more important than for the rest. You referred specifically to housing policy and related it to the contested rule before the Constitutional Court. From the government we will push - the president of the government has said this morning - important legislative changes in the area of housing. We have already presented a housing plan where those investments that you demanded are foreseen and we trust to reach an agreement soon with the Generalitat to, in fact... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u164	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION: DOES THE DIESEL IN SPAIN HAVE THE DAYS CONTAINED? [[File number 180/000702]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u165	Question addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u166	Thank you, Madam President. With what version should the eighteen million diesel users stay in Spain? You must believe, minister, when you say that the diesel has the numbered days? You must believe the president of the government when he says the days counted aren't, but maybe there will be taxes? Should you believe the Minister of Industry, who refers to this debate as a probe balloon? Should you believe the Minister of Finance, who says she's working on a new diesel tax, but who doesn't have a collection effort either? Look, minister, governance is not a mockery; governance is not a mockery, it demands responsibility, and when there is no responsibility, uncertainties are generated, and with uncertainties there are problems in the economy and, therefore, in employment. To generate these certainties, I ask you: what is the latest version of this government on diesel? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u168	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry to turn your back on you, but if you don't, I can't talk. I believe that the fundamental thing is, in fact, responsibility. The reality is complex, not simplistic, and this we are addressing includes many of these references. The assessment made by citizens of public health, air quality, here and outside Spain, is so significant, so important that combustion engines are presenting different scenarios in the coming times. Cities such as Paris or London and countries such as Norway or Sweden have already introduced temporary limitations and bans from 2025, 2030 or 2040 on the movement of these types of cars, let alone major emerging markets such as China and India. And in Spain the production of the car industry is extraordinarily important, representing more than 11% of GDP and devoting a large part of this to export, which means that we have to work in both fields: how we facilitate different mobility in our country and how we use the time we have to facilitate a major transformation and modernization of our industry, so that we ensure that we continue to have the weight in employment, in the gross domestic product that we have today. And that is what the Government has done, committing itself to both objectives: better, more sustainable mobility, but also modernization of industry. We have committed ourselves to accompany industry within a temporary two-year period, in which emissions will be calculated on a transitional basis according to forecasts, to the possibilities offered by the European Commission, but at the same time, within this adaptation period, we facilitate improved mobility, review taxation, promote electrification and review of emission reduction targets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u169	Mr. Marshal, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u170	Nothing, we have no answer and we continue with the lack of rigour. There is no study or number to show what will improve emissions with this tax. You know, as I know, gasoline emits 15% more CO2 than diesel, and that still doesn't understand. And small consumers, what do they do? Will it be immediately, step-by-step, depending on the vehicle's age, which really matters? Look, they bought a more expensive vehicle thinking they were going to have a cheaper fuel, and you take it and you charge it, but not just for the small owners, also for the industrial sector, the self-employed and the transporters. We are also talking about 100 percent of the agricultural sector, and they offer no alternative. Responsibility, Minister. Seventeen factories produce 3 million vehicles in Spain. Of these, 1.4 million are diesel; 40 000 direct jobs are affected by this measure. A little responsibility, Minister. We do believe in a sustainable model of zero- and low-emission transport, but that requires a transitional model so that the economy can adapt, that industry can adapt and that consumers can adapt and thus avoid negative signs towards those sectors. Finally, you have before you the possibility to use the 50 million euros approved in the last budgets of the People's Party that you have on the table to encourage the vehicle of alternative energies and put more poles of supply to the electric car. That is the solution, so sustainable mobility is achieved and under no circumstances drowning and suffocating the Spaniards with more taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, come on in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u172	The President himself has committed himself to a green taxation that does not, in fact, affect professional diesel oil, as he does not do today. On the other hand, the OECD and all international bodies warn of the importance of working in this direction. That won't affect today's car owners, just as they didn't affect other innovations and that one is gradually adapting as improvements progress... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u173	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JAVIER RUANO GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND ENTERPRISES: WHAT ARE THE OBLIGATIONS FOR THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE STABILITY AND GROWTH COVENANT? [[File number 180/00704]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u174	Question addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mr Javier Ruano García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. They will rarely ask you a clearer, more concise, more concrete and more direct question. I therefore ask you for the same clarity in the answer, if possible. Minister, could you tell us what are the current obligations, the obligations in force today, 12 September, of the Kingdom of Spain under the Stability and Growth Pact? In particular, could you tell us all what the targets are in terms of nominal deficit, reduction of structural deficit and increase of expenditure for the years 2018 and 2019 to which the Kingdom of Spain is bound by the European economic authorities? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u177	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to turn your back on you, but if you don't, the microphone doesn't work. As you are well aware, the Stability and Growth Pact is an agreement signed by all European partners in 1997 to coordinate fiscal policy and, in the context of this agreement, the obligation of the Kingdom of Spain for this year is to leave the corrective arm of this Stability and Growth Pact by ensuring that the public deficit is below 3%. I hope I've been clear enough. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Ruano, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u179	Minister, you haven't been clear enough. If you're so kind, I'm asking you three specific facts and I'm not going to tell you that you're leaving because you're telling me something else, but I'd like you to answer my question specifically. As I say to you, this is simply a fact and I wanted to know, in this regard, whether the Government and the compromise coincide with the recommendations issued by the Commission in May, endorsed by the European Council of 28 and 29 June, which you know perfectly well and also adopted by the Ecofin Council of 13 July, which state that the Kingdom of Spain is obliged to reduce the public deficit from 3.1 in 2017 to 2.2 in 2018, thus abandoning the excessive deficit procedure; whether in 2019 the deficit should be 1.3 of GDP and, subsequently, in 2020, 0.5 and 2021 in a small surplus. That recommendation refers to the fact that the maximum rate of growth in net primary public expenditure should not exceed 0.6 in 2019 and these commitments also coincide with a document from his own ministry. In that sense, I repeat and ask you, please, to answer me if these data are correct or not and if they match. Are these the formal and current commitments to date with the European Union? Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u180	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u181	Thank you very much. I will answer with three very clear points. First of all, as I have pointed out before, Spain must leave the corrective arm this year and move on to the preventive arm and that is achieved with the guarantee that the public deficit will be below 3%. The second point is that Spain has to strengthen its credibility in this area and for that we must base our forecasts on the most realistic data possible. This is what this Government has done, that nothing more is coming has been seeing what the budgetary execution of the current year is, and so we have seen that the forecast of the People's Party to close the year with a 2.2% deficit is not realistic, it is not possible; rather we will close the year around 2.7% of the gross domestic product. These data are the ones that we have communicated to the Spanish public and to the European Commission. From the point of view of this data of closure of the year, the normal thing is to review the forecasts for the future year, the year 2019, and so is our path of deficit, to which the Minister of Finance has referred, with a forecast of reduction of the public deficit from 2.7 to 1.8%. What is important - this is my third point - once we get out of the corrective arm, is the structural effort to which you have referred, and I think it is interesting because with the deficit path proposed by the Socialist Government we would be complying with the Council's recommendations, whereas if we stick to the deficit path envisaged by the People's Party, we would be having a deficit reduction greater than the structural effort demanded by the European Council in that May decision to which you refer. We therefore believe that the important thing in this area is to fulfil our European commitments, to be credible, to be based on realistic forecasts and, therefore, to be responsible in the area of budgetary discipline. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u183	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to address the questions addressed to the Government. First, urgent interpellation of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the application of the moratorium to paralyse the departure of the soldiers of troops and temporary marinery at the turn of forty-five years. For your defence, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by welcoming and welcoming the representatives of the workers of the Armed Forces who are accompanying us today in the rostrum. [[The lady]] Welcome, military representatives. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, as you know, today we are bringing to this House an important and urgent problem, which is also of absolute priority for my group. I refer to the situation of temporary troops and mariners who are discriminated against when they reach the age of 45, which is already known as the covert ERE of the Ministry of Defence. They will allow me to briefly contextualize what situation we have today and why it is urgent today, now. I'll start by explaining the problem we face. For your honors and the citizens who are listening to us to understand well, it is appropriate to go back to the year 2006, the year in which the Troop and Marinery Act was passed. The Act 8/2006 stipulated that temporary troops and sailors at the age of 45 had to leave the Armed Forces, but that Act also provided for a series of legal mandates, i.e. mandatory, which the Government had and had to comply with, but neither the PP nor the Socialist Party Governments had complied with. Articles 16 and 21 established the Government's obligation to provide a solution, a job leaver for those forty-five-year-old soldiers who left the army. In other words, the law said that the military at the age of 45 had to leave the army, but required the Government by law not to leave the military behind and to give them a social and labour response. To this end, it was necessary to put in place a plan for training, certification, approvals and, in addition, mechanisms to facilitate the employment of these military personnel. None of this, as I said, has been done by the People's Party or the Socialist Party. It has been the workers, the military, but the Government has not complied with them. [[Applauds]] And it is curious that those, who after the day of the parade of the Armed Forces do not spare in praises of that false patriotism, are the ones who precisely now want to leave the military thrown away. On the other hand, you will remember those campaigns of the Ministry of Defence in which it was said: the Ministry of Defence promises you a profession, promises you a future. Well, the reality is that today the Ministry of Defence has become a stationary manufacturing machine; that's the reality. After twenty years in the Armed Forces, many of these military personnel have, of course, acquired a great experience, a great knowledge of the different tasks or jobs they have had within the army and, instead, when leaving the Armed Forces to the labour market they do not have the certifications that credit this experience in the training they have carried out. That is, we left them with forty-five years on the street, with one hand ahead and one hand behind, and in a hostile labour market, very difficult for that age band. That is what is being done in this country with our public servants, with our military, with our workers. [[Applauds]] And worst of all, they did. The Government has failed to comply with the law and therefore with the military. That's how hard and real it is the situation that a lot of military personnel are going through. The Government had been twelve years ahead of the problem; that was to say, it had to be urgently addressed, but it had been twelve years to resolve it and what they had done had been little, late and bad. [[Applauds]] I will give you an example, the last gift that was left to us by the former Minister of Defence, Mrs De Cospedal, the PIOL - Comprehensive Work Orientation Plan - which counted on the unanimous rejection of all the representatives of the military, absolute rejection. Imagine what that plan would be like. But we must also put numbers on that drama: in the coming decades 50,000 military, 50,000 military families, more than three thousand in what remains of the legislature, will go to the street, to the queue of unemployment, and that we cannot allow. Minister, do you think that with 600 euros you can in this country maintain a family and pay a mortgage? Do you think it's normal? Do you think that with forty-five years they can be integrated into our labour market without having the certifications of what they have performed, with the labour market with the most long-term unemployment throughout the European Union? Do you believe that to our public servants, people who have given everything, who have given the best years of their life, now we can leave them lying down? We have to give an answer now. Look, the first initiative we took to the first Defence Commission of this United Legislature We may have been a non-legislative proposal to paralyse these files as a transitional measure until we find a solution. At that time this non-law proposal did not come out; the Socialist Party opted for the creation of a subcommission that was for six months and is already going for two years. I hope that we will find a solution in that subcommittee and that there will be consensus, but as long as the conclusions are adopted and the measures are implemented, you cannot stand by and you will have to come up here and say what the plan is for these workers, so as not to leave them behind. You also have a pending duty because six months ago we brought back that non-law proposal seeing the dripping of soldiers already on the street, because this has already begun; it is not that they are going to start firing military, it is that there are already many parents on the street, many men and many women. [[The lady]] He said that six months ago we again tabled a non-legislative motion urging the Government to stop these military expulsions and was approved by the majority of this House, even by your parliamentary group when you were in the opposition. I ask you, I demand you to implement that non-law proposal, because if you voted for it when you were in the opposition, now that you are in the government you have the opportunity to apply it. I think we need to get it started. I told him in his first appearance that the numbers gave - and it has been proved with the motion of censure - but not to do the same policy to which the People's Party had accustomed us. The motion of censure was not about changing one face to another, but about changing politics, thinking about people, who suffer the most, changing social policies, putting needs and workers ahead. Yes to the public, not to the private, not to the interests of the arms companies, yes to the people. There's money. Is there a need to change regulations? We get to work and we change it. Minister, you have to give an explanation today, look at the military's face and commit. You know perfectly well that you are going to count on us, even I believe that with more groups in this House, but we have to give a solution, because they are already suffering, they are already passing that situation and we have, of course, to give a solution. There are many parents; I am sure that you receive many messages from many soldiers - like me and all the Members - who tell us things: we have been in Lebanon, we have been in Iraq, we have been defending this country and giving our face and, in the end, they want to throw us on the street without an answer. You know not all the military want to follow, there are some exits: some go to the Civil Guard, others go to the National Police, the Local Police, the Fire Department, others to the private company. But there are many people who do not have that exit because the government has not complied with the law. Because if we read the law, the law is to comply with it completely; the military has to leave the army for forty-five years, but the government cannot let them go, that is, it has to put in place a work plan so as not to leave them in need of work. Our military, our professionals, our workers, those thousands of brave men are patriots, because that's where the homeland is made; the homeland is not made, as the People's Party likes, on the day of the Armed Forces sticking codazos to be in the parade to see who has the biggest flag, no; the homeland is made looking for our people, that's the homeland, that's true patriotism. [[Applauds]] The rest is a false patriotism, I also grunt, and I want to believe that this canned patriotism is no longer in the Moncloa. Until very recently we knew he was there; I hope he is no longer in Moncloa and I sincerely hope that you will come out here and tell us that you have a plan. First, that it will activate that non-law proposal that we put forward and adopt a transactional with the Socialist Party, with Citizens, with all groups, except with the People's Party, which refused, we already knew, was not new. If that non-law proposal came out six months ago, it must now be put into effect because the Socialist Party cannot do what we are sometimes accustomed to: say one thing in the opposition and do the opposite in the government. Those times are over; we have to get that going and we have to look at people and tell them: we're working and we don't want anyone to get stuck in the street, because they deserve it. That's real patriotism. Thank you very much. I thank you again for being here, keep fighting, keep defending your people, all those professional, honest and decent people. [[Addressing the Guest Tribune]] We'll be with you, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u185	Thank you very much. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delgado, I am also addressing those in the rostrum, this is the first time I have had an urgent appeal in this House as Minister of Defence and I have to say that it has been a pleasant surprise to me that this first time is precisely to address an issue that we are so concerned about and on which the Government is working to address the situation of the professional military and military of troops and navy. It therefore gives me the opportunity in my first speech as the head of the department before this plenary to express with absolute roundness that the situation of these professionals is a matter of concern and, above all, of concern to the Government of Spain. Therefore, your inquiry is welcome. I've heard that the best thing about the Armed Forces in this country is their men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few decades we have witnessed a profound process of transformation of the Armed Forces, which has in turn led to substantial changes in the personnel regime of our armies and the Navy, and I do not think it is exaggerated if I say that the adoption of Law 8/2006, of Troop and Marinery, was one of the most important milestones in this process. It was because it was a complex matter for the personnel of the Armed Forces and the model of the Armed Forces, which was adopted virtually unanimously by law. This highlights the commitment and accountability that the various groups are carrying out. But it was especially so because, following the attempt made by Act No. 17/1999 of 18 May 1999 on the personnel regime of the Armed Forces, the transition from a mandatory lever model to a professional Armed Forces model based on quality and specialization was completed, thus responding to the needs of our Armed Forces, taking into account demographic forecasts and budgetary possibilities. The changes introduced by the current law created an appropriate and flexible framework that has enabled, thanks to the efforts of men and women - and here I want to show you my thanks - to modernize and professionalize our armies and the Navy to the level that we know today, which is very high. In this way, the Armed Forces has also been allowed to have a stable coverage of the personnel required to carry out their missions, giving stability and development prospects to those entering them by regulating the career path of the troops and sailors to the first and largest jobs. For the purpose of this inquiry, the age limit for troops and non-permanent seafarers was set at forty-five years, with an entry system with an initial commitment extending up to six years and subsequently the possibility of a long-term commitment up to forty-five years of age. During this time the professional military of troops and navy have the option to promote to non-commissioned officers or officers. In the first instance, the law requires that at least 80 per cent of the places of entry for the non-commissioned officer be filled by persons coming from the troop and navy scale or the possibility of access to a permanent place within the framework of the invitations made for this purpose. And for those who had not promoted or acceded to permanent status, it was established that whenever they met the requirements they would move to the situation of reservists of special availability, a situation in which they would receive compensation, which is certainly - I agree with you - very small, even if it is compatible with private income. In addition, the Act improved training programmes for personal and professional development in the same way that social measures were strengthened in terms of protection from unemployment or temporary disability, as well as for women in situations of pregnancy, childbirth or postpartum. In short, the Troop and Marinery Act introduced positive elements for these military personnel and the Armed Forces. I make this story not only because I value a regulation that, with its successes and flaws - obviously - has been positive, but because it is sometimes undervalued. But it is important to put the issues into debate on their fair terms and, therefore, to avoid - as I say, Mr Delgado - certain simplistic messages such as that of which we want or which we are facing a covert ERE, because this does not correspond to reality and sometimes does not allow us to make adequate progress. Having said that, this government and this minister are aware that after a decade the strengths but also the weaknesses of the law have come to light and that not all the legal provisions - and I fully agree with you - have worked as expected, for lack of public resources, for lack of public and private complicity, for whatever it is. What is worse, the number of professional military personnel on the troop and navy scale who have reached the age of 45 is still in the situation in which they find themselves without an adequate solution and still do not acquire or have a job training that will enable them to enter the labour market in good conditions. That situation is much more than it would be desirable and I recognize it, I accept it and I am extremely concerned about it. It is obvious that this situation, combined with the economic and social context in which we are, as I said before, concerned the House - I am very aware - and that is why we have this subcommittee for the study of the professional regime of the military of troops and navy of the Armed Forces, a subcommittee within the Defence Commission, which aims to study possible solutions to this situation and to which, as you know, the Undersecretary of Defence will shortly appear. A subcommittee which, by the way, was launched at the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, so it is easy to understand the concern of this Government and this minister, who likes to comply with the commitments and therefore does not usually promise what he knows or believes he cannot comply with. Today, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea calls on the Government to mention the possible application of a moratorium to paralyse the departure of the military from temporary troops and navy when they reach the age of forty-five. That's your motion. And we have been reminded - and I know that - that the Socialist Group voted in favour of this moratorium. Ladies and gentlemen, my conviction, that of my department and that of the Government, is that any parliamentary initiative relating to the professional regime of the military of troops and navy should be subject to the completion of the work of the subcommittee which is about to conclude because precisely this would allow us to have a greater margin of debate, study and reach conclusions. But since this Government and those who speak to you have the utmost respect for this Parliament, I will not hide from you that we are studying the viability of this moratorium and the economic, technical and legal reasons that may enable us to put it into effect. But I cannot hide from you either, because it is my duty, and more in Parliament and more in its presence, that the reports that we are currently handling, from both the legal and technical point of view, highlight the legal difficulty of this moratorium. The termination of the active service relationship in the Armed Forces after reaching the age of 45 is a measure provided for in article 10 of Law 8/2006. It is therefore clear that the adoption of the moratorium is outside the competence of the Government as long as it implies a legal change, even if it is temporary. In addition, it should be noted that a measure of this nature, not including others that were proposed at the time, would have an impact on the number of staff and would therefore entail an increase in the number of staff, exceeding the established limit or a decrease, where appropriate, in the number of places that could be offered for new income. This could distort the approach to date. But these technical aspects matter to me, not only because they need to be taken into account, but above all because they need to be framed within the legal context. For this reason, and without neglecting to explore the existing possibilities and without prejudice to what may be derived from the conclusions of the subcommission, we have chosen to put in place and accelerate those measures that can alleviate the shortcomings detected in the implementation of the law, making extendable those that by their nature are possible to those who have already abandoned the Armed Forces and find themselves in the situation of reservists of special availability. Therefore, without obviating the study of the moratorium, I would like to highlight here what progress we are working on. The number of places for access to permanent status has increased, from 150 places in 2017 to 350 places in 2018 and the progressive increase to 700 places is under way in 2021. In addition, within the human resources policy, Law 3/2018, on State General Budgets for 2018, a battery of provisions has been included with the fundamental objective of facilitating professional departures for troops and sailors and military complements with a relationship of services of a temporary nature before turning forty-five years, and also for those reservists of special availability who are perceiving this allocation by availability. These include the extension to these reservists of the possibility of access to the places reserved to date by the Ministry for professional military personnel in public employment calls that are to be made for access to bodies or scales attached to the Ministry of Defence and the admission as labour personnel of this department and its autonomous agencies. We will establish for the first time a voluntary pass quota for MTMs with more than twenty-five years of service and fifty-four years of age. On the other hand, the certificate of training and professional experience for non-permanent staff has recently been launched; the certificate includes training data and professional experience data. This certificate should serve as an instrument by which staff can demonstrate in the civil enterprise field what military training they have received and what professional experience they have, regardless of their qualifications. In addition, we are making an effort to speed up the increase in training opportunities so that their exit can be carried out with appropriate qualifications. Some of these measures will apply to those who have already left the Armed Forces. As I say, all options are being explored in search of a realistic and viable solution. We do not rule out the moratorium that you proposed, we do not rule out it, but at the same time, as we are aware of the difficulties in the parliamentary sphere in which we have to move, we want to make it clear that we are going to be loyal to the conclusions to which the subcommittee comes and that at the same time we are going to work in the line that I am pointing out to you. Therefore, there are two issues to consider, the need to improve law enforcement by correcting errors, and I urge you to work on that line in the subcommittee, but we cannot forget that we need modern armed forces that can carry out their missions because they are our first capacity. In the adoption of transitional measures, all possibilities are being explored, within the obvious limitations and legal conditions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u187	Madam Minister, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u188	I'm finishing up. That is why I urge you to make realistic proposals to us in the subcommittee and to have a consensus in this House that will allow us to give solutions to those men and women who have given the best of their lives for Spain and to whom this Government and the whole of society owes so much, but from realism, not from mere theoretical discourse. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u190	Pure realism. That is, six months ago they support a non-law proposal and now they say that we bring real things; that is, that that was not real, with that we take the photo, we look for the holder and we adopt a non-law proposal as a transitional - transitional - and urgent measure to stop this hemorrhage of thousands and thousands of soldiers seen on the street. Realism is people and it's families, that's realism, that's reality! [[Applauds]] The first part of her words reminded me - apart from the historical class - what Mrs. De Cospedal said: that she was very concerned and that people were the most important of the Armed Forces. Yeah, yeah, but on the street they're gonna stop. You have to explain to them why, being the most important thing, they are given so little: that yes, they are making a report, that they can't say anything but that they certainly don't; that yes but they don't. That it takes money? In the last Council of Ministers you got EUR 4 billion for arms companies. [[Applauds]] More than 4 billion. Look, there's money. Regulatory changes? We start tomorrow, it's not us who are delaying the subcommission. The Secretary of State for Defence was summoned to appear before 14 July and we are still waiting for him. Of course, that's how everything is delayed; that's how everything is delayed. Look, the Ministry of Defence is mortgaged to the eye with 30 billion euros to which to add the 4300 million of a new investor cycle, as Minister De Cospedal said; that is, the interests of the arms companies. Of course we have to modernize the Armed Forces!, of course we have to have modern means, of course, but if we add to that the more than one billion that costs operations abroad and add to it what NATO costs, in the end, those people with 900 euros on the payroll. [[tanks, weapons]] It's just that we have to redistribute the defense budget, we can't spend all the money on tanks and then say there's no money. Yes, we have to modernize the army, they have to have better means and better barracks, of course, but you can't come to say that people are the best that the Armed Forces have and then turn their backs on them. And from the moratorium, man!, you can be simplistic or simple, but not lying or not cheating on people or not trying to disappoint them. That can't be done. We've been adopting a non-law proposal for six months. Regulatory changes? Tomorrow we start, bring in a draft of regulatory changes. Twelve years ago, the 2006 law can now be amended. You said: we drew up a professional law that was very good. Of course, it would have been good if we had fulfilled it! The problem is that the law hasn't been enforced and that's why these people have to go out on the street. [[Applauds]] That is the problem, that part of the law has been complied with and it is not precisely the one that benefits the men and women of the Armed Forces. That's what happened. And people are tired. Madam Minister, I told you at first: we have to change politics, we have to worry about people. As I have told you, it is very good to modernize the Armed Forces, but the priority - and I do not say it is yours - cannot be like the one that has some high army commanders, who have ended up in the revolving doors. That's happened, I'm not inventing it myself: high army commanders - some, of course - who have ended up in the revolving doors. We're talking about arms companies. And where do we leave it? The Armed Forces Day speech? When are we going to some overseas operation? They all say, "You're the best, I don't know how many... Look, you have to give an answer and you haven't said anything: the subcommission. And you, meanwhile, with your arms crossed. You have had time to get more than 4 billion for arms companies or to modernize the army - which you will say - for a hundred days, but in these hundred days you have not had time to say: let's sit down and let's put forward a real plan. And not coming here to say that the law was the best, that professionalization... how are you going to launch the next recruitment campaign to motivate and encourage people to come to the Armed Forces? You come and you have a future for twenty years; then we leave you lying on the street. Is that what we're gonna tell you? That's what's going on. That is what you have found yourself in the ministry and, man!, in the time that it takes, in 101 or 102 days you could have come here with something else, because you say that you are making a report, that it is a high secret, that you can't say, that you can't move anything forward and that you are going to expect what the subcommission says. If I've already told you at first that the subcommission was to kick the problem, to buy time. Now you want to buy time too? If the subcommission was for six months and we've been two years!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u191	I beg you, Mr. Member, to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u192	I'm finishing; thank you very much, Madam President. Moreover, in the subcommission itself there are already authorized voices who say that this problem can be solved, that it is not necessary to throw anyone out of the army. Are you committed to that or are you going to wait for an agreement between the PP and the PSOE to say that this is a state ministry and leave people lying? Is that what the subcommission wants me to do, make a deal with the People's Party to get people out on the street? [[The lady]] Besides, I'm telling you because I demand a real commitment from you here. We're waiting for the subcommission... we're going to study it... That's what we heard before. Also, don't tell me, tell the military, that surely today it will be watching or hearing a lot of people, from TV, from radio, from anywhere. Send them a message of hope, tell them we're going to work seriously, really. They have us for policy changes, for budget issues. Let's get started; well, let's get on with it. Let's do something real. And I tell you to get up here and make a real commitment for the military, because it's very good to talk about history and law and remember all that, but that speech we've heard more times. In the end they spent two years with the People's Party and you know what he did? Nothing. Two years! Nothing!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u193	Mr. Delgado, you've gone way over time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u194	I'm done, Madam President. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u195	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delgado, I told you at the beginning: I thank you for bringing this issue to the House because it is not only your political group that has the concern, but also the Socialist Parliamentary Group that has it, and I am sure that the whole House, because it is a matter of state and because our Armed Forces, our men and women, are a matter of state. I do not accept it, and I say it to you with the utmost respect, that in these 101 days nothing has been done. Much is being done, but seriously and rigorously. Perhaps I by professional distortion have learned that people, and much more professionals like those of the Armed Forces, must be respected and told the reality of what can be done. The pretty phrase and the headline we know how to do and say it all, but then we have to sit black on white to see the legal and possible realities, and in this legal study we are about to see if it is possible to do so with the regulatory framework that we have. I say to you that this Government, as such a Government, cannot do so only, and that is why I have called for the work of the subcommittee to be completed now, which will end in fifteen days and the delay is clearly not the fault of this minister, as you know, so that there can be concrete proposals from here on. This government intends to finish the legislature and, as it intends to finish the legislature, I am sure that in the time remaining for us to finish the legislature we will work with laws, which are the ones that solve the problems, not with sentences and not with headlines. I hope for you, and for the whole House, because this is a problem for the whole House, which addresses precisely the problem of these men and women. In the meantime, the Government is making concrete proposals. I know that they are small and simple, but it is also clear, Mr Delgado, that not everyone wants to stay in the Armed Forces - you have said it - and that it is important that people go out with a professional qualification with which they can join civil life, those who want to go into civil life. This minister has met with the mayor of Vigo, president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, as you know and have not said here, precisely to try to find ways out with the involvement and participation of all the municipalities. You know, and you didn't want to put it into value, the official certificate that we're giving people just so they can get out with a professional training. You know, and you didn't mean it here, the effort being made in the area of scholarships and responsibility on State issues - I know that your party in this area is a party that defends state policies - that is not to hide data, to tell the truth and not to tell our men and women in the Armed Forces that either nothing is being done or something is being said that things can be done that are not possible. I told you before and with the utmost respect I say to you that this minister has been committed to Spain and to the public service for many years, and she will never deceive anyone by saying what can't be done, but at the same time she will devote her energies to responding to the problems of men and women who with so much sacrifice are defending our constitutional values. Neither the arms industry nor any combat cart, of those to which you have referred, nor the defence of Spain would be possible without their men and women. That is our priority, but please, without populism and without demagogy. Indeed, how a government has to work and how this government of the Socialist Party is working. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u197	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, ON DEMOCRATIC REGENERATION MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT, BETWEEN THE SUPRESSION OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS. [[File number 172/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u198	Let us now turn to the urgent appeal, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to the Minister of Justice on the democratic regeneration measures that the Government intends to promote, among other things, the abolition of political outbursts. For your defense, Mr. Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u199	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, regeneration. That's the word. I'm sure it sounds like you, Minister. This is one of the main demands of Spanish society and certainly also one of the great absentes in Spanish politics in recent years; and one of the consequences of this absence is the failure of citizens' confidence in their institutions and, particularly, in politics. However, Citizens is a party of optimistic people and we do not give up that word, regeneration, becoming flesh, passing from the muses to the theatre and becoming legislative measures and concrete facts. Throughout this term we have presented a number of initiatives in this area. Why? Because we understand that the need for regeneration responds to the medicine needed to tackle an old Spanish disease. The parties - in this case, the one who supports his Government, the Socialist Party - come to power and then begin a careful process of infiltration, we could say of infection or parasitization of institutions and public enterprises. What's the result? The disaffection of citizens with regard to politics by finding that the distance between them and the rulers is increasing and, worse, that the distance between them and the institutions that should be at their service is increasing. One of the people who has studied this phenomenon most, Professor Víctor Lapuente, who has explained how the best administrations, those of the best countries, are those in which a smaller number of employees owe their position to a political appointment, should be mentioned in this matter. Well, Minister, your Government is exactly one example of the opposite, and there are some very striking cases. Mr. Juan Manuel Serrano, former chief of staff of the Federal Executive of the Socialist Party, was struck by the lottery as President of the Post Office, for which he has been designated for his political affinity. José Vicente Berlanga, deputy secretary general of the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country in the city of Valencia, graduated in Philosophy and Education Sciences, was also hit by another lottery: the presidency of Enusa, the public company responsible for the nuclear energy business. Mr Óscar López, former secretary of organization of the Socialist Party and former senator, was touched by the lottery of the Presidency of National Paradores of Tourism. We can follow this endless list: José Félix Tezanos, former member of the Executive of the PSOE and president of the CIS, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. [[Applauds]] I could spend my time simply squandering those figures of the Socialist Party who have been hit by the lottery to occupy some position in companies or public bodies. You said this morning in the answer to a parliamentary question that, with your arrival in the government, that which was called the 'institutional displeasure' had ended. - I wanted to understand what that said. I'm sorry to contradict you, but I don't think that this discomfort is just over, but it's on the increase; and after what we saw yesterday, I don't tell you anything. That sense of rapture, that sense that the Administration is a loot to distribute, ends up settling in society and fundamentally compromises an idea, which is the principle of equality of citizens. What generates the disaffection at the end is that feeling that, as in Orwell's novel, some of us are more equal than others and, of course, the lottery of coming to the government and being related to the government party is one of the most equal. You have had enough of repeating that your Government is the government of dignity, but I believe that dignity is not a slogan, it is not a campaign sign, dignity is returned to the institutions by implementing the regeneration measures that the Spaniards demand. Minister, dignity is not proclaimed, dignity is demonstrated, and you in these few hundred days of government have shown very little in this matter. As I said, this group has presented dozens of initiatives to promote democratic regeneration since the very day we opened the legislature, including a handful of proposals for legislation. Do you know how many of them have been approved so far in this House? Unfortunately none, Minister. I am going to quote just a few of them, a dozen: a proposal for a comprehensive anti-corruption law, which, among other things, includes the protection of whistleblowers, the creation of an independent authority and a status of the whistleblower; the abolition of the possibility of granting pardons to those convicted of corruption; the prohibition that those accused of corruption may run on electoral lists; the regulation of lobbies; a proposal for a law that repeals article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act - you said this morning that you had begun the drafting of the bill to abolish it, but it has been before this House for exactly two years. We have also registered a bill limiting the mandate of the President-in-Office; a bill to ensure the depoliticization of the CIS; a bill to ensure the independence of appointments in the regulatory agencies; a bill to depoliticize the appointment of the State Attorney General and to ensure the impartiality of the prosecution. It could continue, judicial independence, transparency in universities - something that you have absolutely fashioned and that you vetoed yesterday in an unheard of thing dedicating absolutely to what you have said so far -. [[Applauds]] I know that what you put in the argument that you have distributed to them and what the President of the Government said this morning is that it is a law that has an important, a serious technical flaw. No, it has no technical flaws; in fact, that law does not create any independent authority that carries any expenses. - Read it well -; the additional provision that you have taken by the hair to be able to veto that law to the only thing that obliges you, the government in charge, is to bring a law to the House, but it does not incur any expense and, of course, that law fits the criteria set by the Constitutional Court and has no current relationship or direct impact on any budget item, in no, Madam Minister, what happens is that you needed to extend that veto to prevent debate and discussion on an issue that is urgent. [[Applauds]] Oh, and don't tell us that if we put an effective date of I don't know when then it could be dealt with, because it is urgent and necessary today to incorporate that transparency and that surrender in Spanish universities, badly in spite of you or the People's Party; it is a necessity and it is something that we owe, above all, to university students who because of their irresponsibility are seeing their titles depreciated at forced marches. [[Applauds]] As I said, the fundamental thing is how that principle of equality is depreciated, how citizens see that the principle of equality is depreciated. If there is a figure that seriously affects this feeling of equality before the law, it is precisely the figure of the strangulation. What do you mean? It basically means that there are certain persons who, because of their personal status as a politician, deserve to be tried not by the courts and tribunals that would be the responsibility of any citizen, but by certain higher courts and tribunals - let us call it -; it alters the functional, objective and territorial competence in favour of certain courts, in this case the higher courts, the higher courts of justice or the Supreme Court. We had raised that reform, that suppression of the stumbling blocks both in the pact we made with you, in February 2016, in the pact we made with Pedro Sánchez - I suppose when we were not yet the cave or an extreme right-wing party - and it was also one of the conditions we imposed in the government pact with President Mariano Rajoy, with the People's Party. In both cases it was the first point of the conditions of the negotiation, the suppression of the stumbling blocks, because their intolerable extension and the abuse of this figure has turned the principle of equality for many citizens into wet paper. You two accepted it and you two have told us that you have no intention of fulfilling that reform that we demanded. Just 24 hours ago the former Minister of Health, Carmen Montón, said after being asked about the irregularities that were known in her master's degree, that we are not all the same. Of course, we're not all the same. Look where I can only agree with former Minister Monton. We are not all the same; you do not want us all to be the same, because we knew on August 6th the order of investigating judge number 51 of Madrid, who accused three people of irregularities in that master's degree, in which the deputy and current president of the People's Party, Mr Casado, is involved, and the investigating judge himself said that he could not continue the investigation of the case because, when he stumbled upon a person who was caught, he had to make a reasoned statement to the Supreme Court. Therefore, this figure of the strangulation has become the last shield, the last defense, the embalming you, Socialist Party, and you, People's Party, so as not to receive the same treatment in the courts and courts as the rest of the Spanish citizens. [[pointing to the right and left of the Chamber]] I would also like to tell you that I do not know what the decision of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court will be, but there are people who, because of the same facts that affect the President of the People's Party, are already charged. Can these three people be treated on the same equal terms as the President of the People's Party? Because the only difference between them is that the current president of the People's Party, Mr Married, is a politician and is a deputy, and he has that privilege that they do not enjoy. [[Applauds]] So, in fact, we're not all the same. This figure of the aphoration, of historical tradition is, moreover, an authentic anomaly, is an anomaly of universal character. It does not exist with the extension with which it exists in Spain - you know it -. In Spain there are nearly 17,000 people, including deputies, senators, members of the Government, the Ombudsman, high political positions in the autonomous communities and many other personalities for whom this figure has been extended, who were not initially included in the two articles of the Constitution that deal with it. Do you know how many outlaws there are in France, minister? Ten. And in Portugal? One. And in Italy? One. And in Germany? None. And in the United States? None. And in the UK? None. In Spain, 17000, and probably more. [[applause]] It is therefore an absolutely abnormal figure from the point of view of comparative law; an anachronism from the historical point of view; a vestige of those privileges of the political class with which we have to end if, as I said, the principle of equality becomes flesh; it introduces a huge difficulty in the investigation procedures where the political parties are; it alters the rules of judicial competence; and it is a commitment that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have and that they have no doubt that citizens will absolutely demand that they comply. I know that some have told us that they are lentils, and others have just said that we have technical flaws in our proposals that prevent them from being taken into consideration. We believe that the citizens are asking us for this regeneration, they are asking us to restore the principle of equality and, of course, we are going to commit ourselves to it in full. I look forward to your intervention to see what your response is and what your position is on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u200	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prendes, I agree with much of your presentation because, as you well know, democratic regeneration is one of the main concerns of this Government, of the group that supports it. Transparency and the fight against corruption has been one of the hallmarks of identity of this Government and the Socialist Party. I say transparency because I understand that transparency is fundamental and basic for this democratic regeneration, for this need for democratic regeneration, for something else that is even more important, Mr Prendes: the culture of democratic regeneration, the behaviour of democratic regeneration. Well, in July, when I made the presentation of the main challenges we wanted to face, one of them was to provide transparency not only by acting by the Government, but to demand transparency in those areas that we from the Ministry of Justice could do and that are also essential for the life of the citizen: transparency, for example, in the selection of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, transparency also in the appointment of the State Attorney General, transparency, as we have already done, in the selection of who will be the delegated components of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the prosecutor's office proposed for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Improvements in the mechanisms for the amparo of judges and judges, we also want to demand transparency in the selection of judges and prosecutors of free designation because it seems to us essential to establish parameters of merit and opportunity for those merits. During my appearance I also outlined some measures that I believe are fundamental to accompany this much-needed change towards a democratic regeneration of politics and social life. Among these measures he spoke of the comprehensive witness protection law, because it is essential to provide such security to those who cooperate and participate with the Administration of Justice, in order to be able to develop investigations and prosecutions that are absolutely necessary as a complement to that democratic regeneration; also - in this I am absolutely with you - there is the need for a law regulating the protection of whistleblowers. I know they're working on that line and they'll find us there. I believe that it is very important, very important, to take action on those who regret corruption. There is a need to provide incentives for individuals who may have participated in a second order in some corruption activities to be able, having had that secondary role, to make known all that they know and to contribute to the clarification of facts and the pursuit of corruption activities that cannot be admissible in a rule of law. [[The lady]] Mr Prendes, within the framework of actions to combat public corruption, the General Commission for Codification has been commissioned to study relocation under a new title, which would be crimes of political corruption, in the second book. This would provide legal certainty and sanctioning effectiveness in the protection of a legal good which the European Union has already decoupled from the mere objectivity and impartiality of the public administration in order to incardinate it, as it previously said, on the foundations, on the pillars, of a rule of law. More specifically, you have referred, Mr Prendes, to the need to address the question of rigging. We are, I think, on the line; we agree on that. I think you were talking about 15000 or 16000 drills, but there are many more; there are many more. There are political outbursts of some 2000, accounting for 11 per cent of the outbursts. These are foreclosures of the head of State, the members of the national executive and legislative, which would be about 600; and as for the members of the autonomous executive and legislative are around 1400. But there is an outburst that is that of the judicial and prosecutorial sector; we are talking about 15,000 people who enjoy certain procedural privileges. We also have cases of minor or less serious offences, which are prosecuted in the Provincial Courts, which reach the State Security Forces and Corpses, which are 230,000. It is an excessive number to refer to a procedural privilege. What happens is that, it is true, it is an important number, we have to deal with it, but we have to do it from the perspective of going down a little bit below and determining on what rules these strangulations are based. As you well know, we have different normative ranks: there is the Constitution, which establishes some stumbling blocks; there is the level of organic law and then we move on to the ordinary rules. The Spanish Constitution, as you well know, speaks of the king's inviolability and irresponsibility; we also speak of the inviolability of deputies and senators, his immunity and severance, and the criminal responsibility of the president of the government and of the members we make up the government. There are, as I said, lower-ranking laws that establish these other stumbling blocks at both the state and the autonomic level. I say state because we're already talking about Supreme Court judges, vocals, Constitutional Court, National Court, etc. As you rightly said, Mr Prendes, and it is true, in comparative law we find nothing, absolutely nothing similar to what we have in our country, regardless of the historical origins of the figure of strangulation, but we are in the 21st century and it is in this century that we are going to live everyone and in which we have to move. Indeed, in Italy and Portugal only the suffocation of its presidents is envisaged. In France, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government are caught up. In the United States, it is true, there is no strangulation, they have impeachment, and once it goes on, the president when he is dismissed is submitted to the jury court with absolute normality. In Germany there is not even a stumbling block, there is an absolute principle of equality as the highest value of the legal system. I think it's an important line. It is true that the progress in the strides makes us aware of what rules or norms we must change, and for that we have some numbers, some Chambers, some support; that is what there is, and that is what we must work with and have some realism with. In fact, in the electoral programme with which the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party participated in the last elections, it had among its proposals to limit the suffocation of parliamentarians and members of the Government to the assumptions related to the exercise of their office and to promote the abolition of autonomous communities from their autonomous statutes. I have commissioned the General Commission for Codification, the procedural section, to carry out a rigorous study in order to proceed with the abolition in its case of afforestation, while maintaining the exceptions which we consider indispensable. The abolition of such hindrances would not affect parliamentary immunity, which I believe is a guarantee from Parliament as a legislative guarantee against the judiciary, and the need to request a petition should be maintained when it is intended to prosecute parliamentarians. I am with you, therefore, in the need to deal with and resume the question of drilling, for two fundamental reasons: for the principle of equality - we are all equal before the law, no one is above the law - but also for something as fundamental as the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by the law, to the natural judge, because I believe that even those drilled also have that right, the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by the law. I agree with you on something: if today we stick to certain aspects, to the facts committed in the office itself, perhaps Mr Casado would be accused, like the rest of his fellow masters. [[Rumors]] In addition - and I would like to finish this - to the regeneration measures to which we have referred, there is something very important, which we can all do from our responsibility, Mr Prendes. The first is the example of democratic ethical behaviour. The second thing is to standardize... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u202	Mrs. Vazquez, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u203	Thank you, Madam President. The second is to standardize attitudes and behaviours of democratic regeneration. The third thing is to assume, as this government has done and as the Socialist Party has done, a culture of democratic regeneration, without waiting, Mr Prendes, for us to be thrown out or without waiting for us to be supported with abstention. [[rumors]] I would like to say that the largest of the initiatives to support democratic regeneration that you could perhaps have carried out would have been to have failed to profile yourself when it came to recognizing that systemic corruption was instituted in the People's Party, and this was recognized in a criminal sentence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Prendes, you have the floor. [[Mrs Montserrat Montserrat calls for the floor]] Mrs. Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u205	We ask for the floor on the basis of article 71, because the minister in her inquiry has made a judgment of value saying that if Mr. Pablo Casado were not caught, he would be charged. We ask that this statement be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions because the minister is not a judge, but a minister of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u206	Minister, will you remove it?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u207	Madam President, I don't think you understand me very well. What I have said is that if we did not have the rules regarding immunities in the sense that we have them, Mr Pablo Casado would be charged. [[Greetings.-Mr Floriano González: Based on what? Why do you prejudge the result?-Mr.De Olano Vela: It's rigging, it's rigging.-Mrs.Montserrat Montserrat: We ask for the withdrawal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u208	Thank you, Minister. I think the controversy is settled. Mr Prendes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Frankly, that you appear to be such an intense confrontation by an allusion to your political leader cannot tarnish one thing: you have supported each other, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and you have both committed yourselves with Citizens to suppressing the figure of the drills and you have both supported each other, shielding each other, talking about certain majorities to prevent the suppression of that figure of the drills. [[Applauds]] You two have taken advantage of it. So, this thing they're doing here doesn't stop being a certain theater. And it does not cease to be a certain theatre too that the minister said that she was absolutely in agreement with us but that this was complex and complicated. It is as complex and complicated as the reform of autonomous statutes in two cases, such as those of Murcia and Cantabria, is being dealt with in this House because there has been a political agreement and a sufficient majority. However, there are other places where you, members of the Socialist Party, have refused to remove that form of stifling and it was as easy as changing two sentences into a statute of autonomy. And I give you two very clear examples: the case of Asturias and the case of Andalusia, where you had also agreed and Mrs. Susana Díaz said that she was not prepared to suppress the outbursts. Be clear, they do not come up here with nice words to say that they agree, that they understand everything and that very well, but at the time of truth they prevent with their votes and with their majorities that these reforms and that regeneration is put in place. Minister, you have referred in your first part to the need to incorporate transparency. But what a huge contradiction that you say here today! The day after you launched a veto against an initiative that sought precisely to introduce that transparency into a very necessary area, which is the university. You have used the figure of the veto scrupulously - and I am willing to discuss it with anyone -, taking the radish by the leaves to prevent that transparency from opening up in college and let us know what happened to the ghost masters and let us know what privileges some of you have enjoyed to get those degrees that cost others a lot of effort. [[Applauds]] So when I come up here and talk about transparency, start first by exercising it and not using that figure of the parliamentary veto precisely against the only initiative that sought to make light and transparency in a very necessary area. You referred to the fact that there are many different types of training, also of a professional nature, in the case of the Armed Forces, Forces and State Security Bodies, judges and magistrates... Look, first, you have to start preaching with the example and we have to set an example. We have to start by setting an example for ourselves. I repeat, both in the agreement with Mr Pedro Sánchez and in the agreement with Mr Mariano Rajoy, in both cases, we clearly specified the abolition of political outbursts. We could do it and we can do it even if it involves a constitutional reform that would go through 167 and that only needs the support - I say only, because if you two agree and we too could get it - of 210 Members and 167 Senators. There have been constitutional reforms which I believe have far less impact on citizens, which, let us say, cater to the needs felt by citizens of lower intensity, and we ask them to take on that commitment. Nothing more, that they both comply with what they signed with us and that they do not continue to hide in studies, in majorities and in procedural difficulties not to meet that demand. You were talking about transparency in the selection of vowels, transparency in the selection of the State Attorney General. Look, minister, in addition to transparency, what needs to be regained is citizens' consideration of the independence of the judiciary, and that is not only achieved by transparency, not only by publishing the list of names from which they are to be elected, but by returning to the true spirit of the constitutional text in the election of members of the General Council of the judiciary. You are probably going to tell me here now about the sovereignty linked to the election of the governing body of the judges, but look at the ruling of the Constitutional Court that validated the 1985 reform, review it and see how those warnings made by the Constitutional Court of politicization, of the partisanization of an organ that had to be called to be independent and non-partisan, see how those risks that the Constitutional Court then warned have settled down. That is one of the great causes of the lack of credibility in many cases of justice vis-à-vis the citizens, because when that figure of the hanging makes politicians go to be judged by some rooms in which we have played a very decisive role in the selection of their composition, as you will understand, credibility is absolutely compromised. This issue of credibility is something that is difficult to win for a long time but is lost in a few minutes, that is, with a single case in which citizens perceive that when they enter a court or court they do not have the same weapons, they are not on an equal footing with politicians, with only one of these cases credibility is already lost. Beyond his good words in today's interpellation, I announce that in our motion what we are going to demand are concrete commitments and actions and we are going to demand them from those who have the sufficient votes to make that principle of equality that they so claim to respect become flesh. We will plant an immediate, possible and real suppression of the drilling. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prendes, when we talk about transparency in the choice of positions, we are not simply referring to the publication of names, but to making public a whole selection process, to make public the motivation why one or another person is chosen so that people understand that the appointment of certain people for certain positions of significance is the right one. They must be sufficiently motivated and there must be a plurality of candidates. When we talk about transparency in this regard, we are also fighting against the politicization of justice, for example, because we know why a particular judge or prosecutor is elected to a certain position, because we are able to understand the reason for his choice, to know his merits and to know which people requested that position. Transparency, therefore, is precisely the way to combat such politicization because, as you well know, politicization does not come from the way of choosing members of the General Council of the Judiciary, for example, but from other kinds of actions of certain organs or from the partisan use of justice. That's where politicization comes from. I wanted to tell you that this government yesterday expressed in the most clear way how to deal with democratic regeneration. A magnificent, extraordinary Minister of Health who barely a week ago defended and contributed with her effort to ensure universal health; who presented a comprehensive plan to eradicate violence against children; who initiated a dialogue to eliminate the pharmaceutical co-op; who provided a budget of 40 million to help the autonomous communities and all the operators who are working with unaccompanied foreign minors, whose protection, for the best interests of the child, is posing a real problem for the autonomous communities; who has had the courage to face all these reforms in just a hundred days by turning the Spanish health system around, making it truly a public service had yesterday the decency to assume... [[applause.-Mr.Echaniz Delgado: He has done nothing]] [[Mr. Echaniz Delgado: Lying]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u213	... this culture that the Socialist Party and that the government of Pedro Sánchez will defend to its last consequences in order to standardize - and I hope it will set an example -, ladies and gentlemen, something that has to be structural, that has to be internalized by all who are here so that the people there will perceive it. And with yesterday's gesture, with yesterday's grand gesture, we lost a magnificent Minister of Health, but we won political decency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the symptoms of the deceleration of the Spanish economy. [[File number 172/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u215	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the symptoms of the slowdown of the Spanish economy. For your defence, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, let me draw your attention to three facts. On Friday, August 31, the emergency bulletin issued by his ministry warned of the slowdown of five indicators. On Tuesday, September 4, we saw the worst employment performance in the last decade: over 200,000 workers lost their jobs. And any of the institutes, authorities, organizations or centers related to the economy warn about our risks. We are, Madam Minister, in the face of bad data, in the face of confirmation of a deceleration announced. The weakening of the Spanish economy is a fact; we light the alarms, but the risk, the real danger will come if what is data becomes a trend. The question is not whether the Spanish economy is slowing down; the question is whether it will continue to do so. The shadow of the crisis is very long and that of the policies that aggravated it, too. The coincidence of an international crisis, with decisions to increase public spending, at the same time that the collection had fallen in an unknown way until then, resulted in an unsustainable deficit and led us to lose more than three million jobs, and even the socialist government at that time had to freeze pensions. Today we have negative international winds, restrictions on international trade, an oil barrel price of around $80, slowdown in our best buyers, crises in emerging countries where important Spanish companies have interests and an announcement of a final point to the purchase of debt by the European Central Bank that will determine an increase in interest rates. And now it depends on you, on the President of the Government and especially on you as Minister of Economic Affairs and President of the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs. You are free to choose the policies of income, spending and regulation of the markets you want, but how the Spanish economy evolves in this international context depends on you. They are free even to rectify, but to rule, minister, is not to touch buttons to see what happens, because the decisions that are made, the intentions that are announced, the rectifications and the balloons probe have very serious consequences on the confidence, on the investors and especially on the employment of Spanish workers. The street is quiet, Spain's double morality, Spain's double standards has again become present. There are no more demonstrations or protests or tides demanding an increase in pensions, even if they are the same as when the People's Party ruled; T-shirts are no longer printed demanding increases in education or health budgets, even if they are the same as when the People's Party ruled. Finally, Spain's double morale, that when there were 100,000 new members of Social Security in a month while ruling the People's Party, came out to say with banners and t-shirts that this job was precarious and that now, when more than 200,000 workers fall off the Social Security lists, look elsewhere simply because it governs the PSOE. [[Applauds]] It governs the PSOE, the same PSOE that today says that growth is robust and 104 days ago, just before the motion of censure, said that there was a social emergency in Spain. [[The lady]] But, as I said to you, Minister, you are free to apply the economic policies you want. At the moment, they seem to have forgotten the biggest mistake they made when the first symptoms of the crisis appeared, which was to deny them. You just have to read your last statements or those of the President of the Government: growth will remain robust in the coming months - exactly the same as Mr Solbes and Mr Rodríguez Zapatero said in December 2007 -; you have the will to raise the spending ceiling, if it has not been done is because it has not been approved; your aim is to spend more, which has little to do with what is right for the country and more with what is right for you to continue to occupy the Moncloa. They are trapped in this doctrinal goodism of which they show and their parliamentary weakness with eighty-four seats, fifty-two seats less than the People's Party, which won the elections. They have eighty-four seats plus their support, which are, on the one hand, those who are interested in Spain, because Spain is doing well is simply nil because they want to leave it, and on the other hand, those who defend economic models that at this point in the 21st century are somewhat extravagant, by calling it in some way. They gave everything to the increase in public spending and the rise in taxes, they did not care about a higher deficit and therefore more debt. More spending, more debt, more taxes, more deficit with less growth are not the most opportune ingredients for employment and the improvement and well-being of Spanish families, but on the contrary. Moreover, minister, you remember too much the past and the way for the crisis to enter the houses of the Spanish middle classes. If the challenges are now, in the words of Commissioner Moscovici on his recent visit to Spain, to reduce the deficit, you increase it; if, in the words of Mr Moscovici, the challenge is to lower the debt, you increase it, and in order to make the structural adjustment - more than EUR 5 billion - you rely on tax figures that will not in any way cover with your collection figures; moreover, taxes with negative consequences for the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, tax increases with negative consequences for the employment of workers, for investment or the increase of credit, negative consequences for the disposable income of families that derive from their determined desire to increase taxes. Madam Minister, your silence has been overwhelming in the face of events of various kinds that can have a negative impact on the evolution of the Spanish economy. I think you should be very aware that in the event of an international crisis the difficulties in responding in a coordinated manner today are very great, or at least more difficult than in 2008. Today, to imagine an international action coordinated with the actors in presence is almost unthinkable. We are more vulnerable to the crisis because our debt level leaves us no room and also because coordinated international response action is difficult to imagine. That is why, when the circumstances occur, for example in Turkey, where we have invested more than 90 billion euros and you say nothing, or when the circumstances occur in Argentina and Brazil and you say nothing, your silence is overwhelming. These silences led us to think that you would be dedicated to the task of coordinating the economic policy of the Government you are entrusted with. But I am sure that by coordination you do not understand what is happening with the declaratory tax policy that the Government is doing, where there are ministers who need to be coordinated, not with other cabinet members anymore, not with the President of the Government anymore, but they need to be coordinated with themselves, Minister. Hasty statements, vehemently statements, improper statements by those who have such high responsibility, statements that are not the best sign to improve the confidence of entrepreneurs, consumers and economic operators: the Minister of Energy Transition stating that the diesel had the days counted to rectify in a few hours; one morning the President of the Government affirms the need to raise the tax to the diesel, the Minister of Industry and Tourism says that it is not true, that the President of the Government confines himself to launching balloons probes, and then amends himself through a video that afternoon. I don't think that throws the best of the messages. But what's the point? Why do they do it? Because do you imagine what the social consequence of all this is? What are you pretending? Can't you think a little more before you say things? And I'm talking about income, but we could talk about spending. The Minister of Defense has become a problem for commercial relations with Saudi Arabia, has put at risk a contract of 1800 million euros, 6000 jobs in the Bay of Cadiz, El Ferrol and Cartagena, for rushing to make decisions that question the reliability of our country when signing a contract and that also question the future of our country's defence industry for a slow progression, for a fatally understood progression. The Minister of Labour wanting to change the labor reform to make it more rigid with the success she has been matilising the next morning. And the Minister of Finance... of the Minister of Finance better say nothing; I think it is better not to say anything at all. [[Applauds]] Moderation of all economic indicators, risks of an international nature, policies tested and failed in the past that you want to re-launch and the danger posed by declarative fiscal policy are variables that constitute a certainly dangerous equation. We are in time to change it, Minister, we are in time. It's up to you. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u217	Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u218	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. This is my first time on this podium and I feel very honored, very proud and happy to have the opportunity for the first time to address you from this place. Mr Floriano, thank you very much for your question. Yesterday I had the opportunity to explain to your colleague Mr Barreiro a number of fundamental principles, but it is true that there was little time to explain it and I therefore appreciate this opportunity to put some points on the yeses or to be clearer, if possible, on this issue which seems to me to be extraordinarily important. It is a matter on which we must be clear, we must give confidence and above all we must avoid giving alarm and confusion. So I'm gonna start being clear and meridianly transparent. The Spanish economy is in a positive phase of the cycle. I think you share this yourself, there's no way to say otherwise. Moreover, growth is based on solid foundations with positive contributions from both domestic and external demand. In fact, the growth forecasts for this year 2018, which move in a fork between 2.6 and 2.8% for the gross domestic product, show that this robust growth is what most international analysts believe you were referring to. This growth rate - we, being cautious, believe that it is 2.7% the most likely figure to close the year - would be higher than the euro area average, the EU average and the growth rates of the main trading partners. Moreover, and this is interesting, the growth rate envisaged by this Government is exactly the same as that predicted by the PP Government just three months ago. [[The lady]] That is to say, I do not get to consider that three months ago the economic situation was extraordinarily positive and the indicators were wonderful and three months later, with indicators that are basically in line with what was already expected in the first part of the year, let's say that the situation is catastrophic or that there is a risk of involution or change of trend, because the forecasts of a more moderate growth in 2018 had them the previous government, we have them and they have them most of the operators for development around us. You yourself have spoken about this: the slowdown in the world economy, the trade tensions that exist in different jurisdictions, the return of Spain to a more neutral cyclical position after a very long and deep recession and a very important growth and the disappearance of certain tail winds on which we have frankly been sailing or surfing in recent years and which largely explain recent economic growth. Therefore, the moderation of growth is not a new phenomenon and, of course, it has not started in June 2018, and in this sense the data are stubborn and very clear, and it is that from the maximum growth rate that we reached in 2015 of 3.6%, the following year was reduced to 3.2% and the following year to 3% - here we see a fairly clear trend - and this year we would fall to 2.7%. We are talking about moderation of growth within a trend that began in 2015 and that has by no means begun in June 2018. [[Applauds]] It seems to me that this is a message that we have to counter and make very clear from the very beginning. Second point. You talk about indicators, and it is true that there are certain indicators that show a deterioration compared to the previous months and there are others that are, however, positively surprising to us and what one cannot do is overreact to a concrete indicator in a specific month. I am glad that you have spoken of the announced slowdown because, indeed, the fact that from this year onwards the indicators are not going to give us great positive surprises, we were all expecting it and it is how logical one has to wait when we are slowing down economic growth, but what is not to be done is to draw an indicator out of its context. As I said before, it can't be that an indicator was wonderful before and now bad. Let me give you an example of an indicator that could be used partyically if you wanted and to which you have referred and sometimes refer, which is consumer confidence. The consumer confidence index deteriorated slightly in August compared to July, but the August level is higher than the first half of the year and, in fact, the month in which the consumer confidence index increased the most was between May and June. Someone might say that it was the arrival of the new government that increased consumer confidence. It is so wrong to consider that the August data shows a deterioration as to say that an increase in a given month is due to an isolated data or phenomenon and even less to a political change. It seems to me that it is important to keep this in mind because in the coming months there will be data that will be more positive and other less positive. There are indicators that are very positive, and let me mention this because it is very recent. Yesterday we had a public debt auction and we auctioned letters and a 15-year bond. The auction interest rate of this bond has been lower than last year and we are seeing that international markets trust our economy and trust Spain because they know that this is a serious and responsible government, which says what it wants to do, announces it and is transparent with respect to its expectations. Next point - and I share this absolutely with you - the situation is good, but we cannot trust each other, we must be vigilant and we must follow with great attention the developments that are taking place in our environment. During the month of August we have been following the development of the case of Turkey day by day. I have been in contact with multilateral financial institutions, I have been in contact with the European Commission, I have been in contact with economic operators and I have been in contact with political leaders from other countries, but the role of the Minister of Economy is not to go out and give alarmist messages, it is to be well-informed, well-informed and to see when to react and make a certain decision, which I have not considered appropriate so far. Similarly, we are following very closely the development in Argentina, from day to day. This, I believe, is the function of public responsibility, which is not to run to give headlines, but rather to be prudent and to analyse the situation well before reacting. We must be vigilant with regard to developments at the international level. We must be vigilant about changes in economic policy and about the disappearance of these tail winds, such as the normalisation of monetary policy that you have pointed out, but we must also be vigilant about other indicators that have unfortunately been ignored in recent years; indicators of very serious imbalances in our economy, such as the very high unemployment rate - particularly the youth unemployment rate -, the very high turnover of contracts and the precariousness of the labour market. It is a matter which you mentioned, which was mentioned this morning in the debate and which I think is of primary importance. What we have been shown by the recorded unemployment data and social security affiliations of August - and they are not positive, and it is never pleasant to give negative notes, but they cannot be positively valued - is that the intermonthly evolution has been unfavorable. If we compare it to a year ago, the comparison is actually positive: there has been an increase in affiliations of 3%, a drop in registered unemployment of 6%, a fall in registered youth unemployment of 6% and an increase of 33% in indefinite recruitment, as Minister Valerio pointed out. But I do not remain in what could be a positive message, but I remain in the worrying message that we all share of the very high turnover of the labour market and the very high volatility of contracts. A key priority for this Government is to try to solve this problem so that we do not remain isolated, but try to go to the causes and solve it. Other very important indicators are the gender gap, the inequality of our society, child poverty and the number of people - millions of citizens in our country - who are at risk of poverty. In other words, I think it is very important to be very vigilant about the macroeconomic data that we always talk about - GDP, inflation, the external balance - but also about other indicators that we cannot forget. We have to think about data and markets, but above all we have to govern for people. [[Applauds]] That demands not to close our eyes to other imbalances that are equally important and fundamental to the sustainability of our economic model and social market economy for the future. A third message I would like to send and leave to you today is that the economic situation is good. We must be vigilant, but above all we must take advantage of it now to resolve the imbalances that the crisis left us and that have been aggravated during the economic recovery phase. Appropriate measures must therefore be taken to make our economic growth more financially and socially sustainable in the medium to long term, as I said a moment ago. There are imbalances that were caused by the crisis, but there are others that have been aggravated or deteriorated even further during the economic recovery: job insecurity - as we mentioned earlier -, contract rotation, precariousness and the low quality of contracts, the fall in real wages. All these elements are obviously imbalances that we must try to resolve. Another imbalance is the high public deficit. You mentioned the issue of the public deficit. The reduction of the public deficit in these years has been favoured exclusively by economic growth; in other words, we have relied budgetary discipline only on the smooth running of the economy. You will agree with me that this is not a responsible policy, because at the moment when the economic situation begins to deteriorate a little, we will find ourselves with a very large increase in the public deficit. What we have seen in recent years is that our structural deficit has worsened. Nor does anyone have to be surprised, because we have carried out a policy which has taken some measures to reduce tax collection, so it is normal that the structural balance has deteriorated. But if we do not take advantage of the present moment to take structural measures, we will find ourselves again with an expansion of the public deficit if economic growth slows down. You also mentioned the high public debt on GDP. I'm surprised you mention it because it really was in 2014 when you reached the peak of public debt ratio over GDP: 100%. I regret to say that since then only a few tenths have been reduced, despite having had a very vigorous economic growth in our economy. That is to say, they are tremendously important imbalances that I think are fundamental from the point of view of sustainability and intergenerational justice, but we have to take steps to resolve them, we cannot simply continue to rely on economic growth and the smooth running of markets to resolve these imbalances that we have inherited. That is why we believe that we need to have an economic policy agenda focused on three areas: a responsible fiscal policy, a social agenda that works to close gender gaps, poverty gaps, workers' gaps, the duality of the labour market, and an ambitious change agenda that lays the foundations for sustainable long-term growth and tries to respond to the challenges of the future, which we all know are there and are not going to disappear because we ignore them. I would like to give three short strokes of these three elements that I have just mentioned. First of all, the fiscal agenda - I had not seen the time, I have little left -; I will insist on this subject, budgetary stability is inexcusable because of responsibility. That is why our forecast for the development of the deficit path is based on realistic, credible data and on a path that is accountable from the perspective of the fulfilment of our international obligations, but that does not go beyond the reasonable, that is, what responsibility and reason we have to guide in this area. I keep the message you've released, which is that we're still on time. I hope that this means that we are still in time for the rest of the political groups to support the path proposed by the Government, which is responsible, reasonable and what it is thinking of people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Floriano Corrales, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have a feeling that you have responded to an inquiry that I have not made to you because, Madam Minister, the question is not how things are going to be, the question is what you are going to do to solve the problems that we can start having and that everyone warns that we can actually have them. That's the point, Your Honor. The question is how things were going, how there is a determined international situation that has sparked the alarms for some time and now you decide to increase the deficit - therefore the debt -, increase public spending and raise taxes. That is the question, whether the change in economic policy that you and your Government seem to have decided is the best answer to the problems that we seem to have or that all international organizations announce that we have and that, therefore, can lead to greater problems. We have data that's telling us this isn't going well. Look, I've given you three data from August 31st and September 4th, but we'll be back to whatever date you want. You have decided that the policy that must now be implemented is to relax the deficit, increase debt, increase public spending and increase taxes, and I tell you that that, with less growth, are variables that make an equation that ends in unemployment. This isn't new. In the end I believe that this is a problem of models, of yours, of the Socialist Party, of the left in general: as agents do not make good decisions, I raise taxes because the decisions I take as Administration and therefore I raise taxes; and our model: I trust economic agents and what I do is to make things easier for them so that employment, wealth and well-being can be generated for Spanish families. That's thinking about people. [[Applauds]] It seems to you little that the Spanish pay taxes 182 out of 365 days of the year and want them to work more days to pay taxes to you, and to us it seems to us that it is many days, but it is a question of model. You talk to me about people's politics, I take away what you earn, and now I'm the one doing politics. Hey, why don't you just try to create the conditions for economic operators to act, improve public services and ensure the well-being of families? That's thinking about people. The other thing is to think about increasing public spending because that's how you accumulate more power, because that's how you can make spending decisions and take them away from economic agents. It is that increasing the debt is not good, increasing the deficit is not good, and still without agreement, with a private conversation that they have had - let's see what comes next October 15th -... This morning he has again insisted that we do not exceed 3% is enough. Yes, but from 2.7% to 2.9% they go more than EUR 2 billion. We're talking about important things, important deviations. And we're going to increase the debt, and of course we can talk about increasing the debt. You went from 35 to 70, and we did raise our debt, finding ourselves in a 9% deficit, by the way, hidden in an important part. That is why I say to you, Minister, that the issue and the debate is what we are doing. I sincerely believe that you have decided to do a policy which has already been tested and which has failed, that the things that you say remind us a lot of what Mr Solbes and Mr Zapatero said at the end of 2007, and that your policy of increasing expenditure, increasing deficit, increasing taxes and increasing debt only leads us to failure and, of course, to the fact that the most harmed are the people, the Spanish families, the Spanish middle classes, reducing their disposable income. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u222	Mr Floriano, not by much repeating one thing becomes true, and it is important that we say things as they are. So let me tell you four points. First, especially what we're not going to do. We're not going to increase the government deficit. Not because you repeat it becomes true. No, this year we will close the year with a deficit forecast of 2.7% and the path proposed by the government reduces the public deficit to 1.8% of GDP, that is, we preview a reduction of the deficit from this year to next that is the same that the People's Party predicted, 0.9, but on the basis of the realistic exercise closure, on the basis of the certain data for the year 2018. [[Mr. Floriano Corrales: Oh, well!]] No, forgive me, I want to say this very clearly: we are not advocating an increase in the deficit, we are advocating a path of reduction of the realistic deficit, based on certain and reasonable data, that does not go beyond, as I said earlier, what our commitments require. I'll be back to this in a moment. Second, let's not press buttons to see what happens. It strikes me that you say this, when there are some people who say that you have to lower taxes because it will increase the collection. The reality is very clumsy, the fiscal reform of 2015 meant a loss of revenue of more than 12 billion euros for the public era and that meant that our public deficit was 0.5% higher the next two years. This at a time when public debt - you yourself know and have said it - was 100% of GDP. Has that meant that our public debt could have been a 1% lower if there had not been such a tax reform? Man, speaking of pressing buttons to see what happens, what is clear is that, with a percentage of GDP income of 38% in our country - much lower than the average of the countries in our environment and much lower than that of the most developed countries on the European continent - we cannot argue that we are going to lower taxes because it is going to increase the collection. Forgive me, but that kind of magic formula does sound like pressing buttons to see what happens. Thirdly, we are not going to continue to close our eyes to the imbalances in our economy and the reality of the people and forgive them to repeat it, but it is that people will care about the data of GDP, they will care about the data of inflation, but above all what matters is the reality in which they live, the levels of inequality in our society, which have increased very substantially after the crisis and also in the recovery. People are worried that there may be problems like child poverty in our country. 50 per cent of the population is concerned about the gender gap. Those are the concerns to which we also have to respond and not close our eyes. Fourthly, we are not going to take decisions on the basis of dogmatic principles and in this respect I return to the subject of budgetary discipline. If the recommendations that come to us from Europe are of a structural adjustment of 0.6 and we believe that 0.4 is a good figure, why should we make an adjustment of 0.9 as would be the path of the People's Party? Again, I urge you to support the Government's revision proposal out of responsibility and realism because it is really the one that responds to the reality of the data that we have in our hand and that you know very well, because precisely because you are a government party you have had access to these figures and know the reality of budget implementation; we have discovered it when we arrived at the Government when the Minister of Finance began to analyse it, but you know very well because you were there and made those decisions. [[applause]] This is important to say as well. The public deficit forecast for this year is not due to a change of government or a decision by the new government, it is the budget which you yourselves have approved and which you know perfectly well. Let me conclude with what we are going to do. We want to launch a positive agenda for sustainable and fair growth and I want to focus on this last concept because we believe that this is what our country needs and because we do not want the brutal adjustments that have taken place in our society to be repeated when the next economic crisis arrives - which I hope is as far away as possible and we will do everything we can to prevent it - and that we find that the scourges that we still have in our country are more vulnerable to the challenges that lie ahead in the future. This is the positive agenda that we want to push forward, which we are going to develop with all our energy and which I hope will be able to achieve the support of the parliamentary groups in this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u223	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u224	We shall now proceed to the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on the way in which the Government intends to pursue the dialogue announced with the Government of the Generalitat and on its priorities for government action for Catalonia. For the defence of the initiative, the author of the initiative, Mr Campuzano i Canades, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u225	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups for having been able to postpone the defence and debate of this motion from yesterday afternoon to this morning. The deputies of the Democratic Party and the Republican Left were yesterday in Barcelona on the occasion of the Diada. I want to thank all groups for that gesture. Just yesterday the massive demonstration of Barcelona was once again the expression of a very broad and very strong will in Catalonia; a new civic, democratic and toddler Diada. A Diada that once again expressed the failure of the repressive policy with which the previous government of the State addressed the question of Catalonia. Neither 155 nor the unjust provisional prisons nor an excessive trial coming up for the coming months have been able to silence that Catalan society that demands to decide the political future of Catalonia and that aspires to a state of its own for Catalonia. This motion expresses the will of the Democratic Party to be able to channel through political channels the conflict that exists between Catalan society and the institutions of the State. President Tora, President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras or Jordi Sànchez have recalled this from prison, which is the need for dialogue and the need to seek it as a political solution to these demands of Catalan society. It has been recognized by the President of the Government himself in the motion of censure when he recalled that the statute currently in force in Catalonia is not legitimate in so far as it is not the statute that the Catalans voted and he has recognized it when he spoke about the need for such a dialogue. The motion, if it is finally voted on by your ladies and gentlemen, will represent the first political mandate of the House since 2012, which calls for dialogue in order to address the situation in Catalonia, which defends the legitimacy of all ideas, which cannot be imposed or prevented, which must be the Catalans who must determine their political future and which must agree on the legal and democratic channels to do so. A motion that little or much responds to a philosophy that we could summarize in that of not imposing, not preventing, obligation to agree. It has political value, in our view it goes in the right direction, but we are far from being able to see solutions to that conflict. From the outset, ladies and gentlemen, because trials, provisional prisons, exile, condition the political debate. We are not in a situation of democratic normality, and without the freedom of prisoners or the return of exiles, there will be no democratic normality and the solution to the political conflict will be extremely difficult. We will accept the amendment tabled to us by the Socialist Group, which refers to the existing legal system, because, among other things, we have been defending for many years that in an open, progressive interpretation of the legal system, of Spanish and international, there would be more, of course, a referendum for Catalans to decide the political future. Pérez Royo said it and Rubio Llorente said it. In 2012, Rubio Llorente published in El País, after the massive demonstration of that year, that the urgent, the indefatigable is to verify the solidity and content of these aspirations and for that there is no other way than that of the referendum. And, ladies and gentlemen, this option was defended from this House: Jordi Turull, today in prison; Marta Rovira, today in exile in Geneva, and Joan Herrera. Therefore, yes, it is an amendment that we can understand. We do, however, demand from President Sánchez and the Socialist Government the same audacity, courage, imagination and political realism that President Suárez had in October 1977, which allowed the provisional Generalitat to be restored within the framework of the legal order in force at the time, which was that of the Fundamental Laws of the Movement; with that political audacity of Suárez in 1977. The explanatory statement of this legal rule adopted by Suárez, which allowed the return of Tarradellas and the restoration of the Republican Generalitat, must be reread. Ladies and gentlemen, the political conflict between Catalonia and State institutions can only be resolved through politics. The democratic policy - and the motion we are defending insists on it - can only be based on the fact that the reasons that we support, that respond to the democratic principle, that are the reasons based on the right that we are the Catalans who can decide the future, that we must decide our future as a community, are perfectly legitimate and democratic aspirations, and the aspiration that we defend, that our country is an independent country in the form of a republic, is a democratic aspiration, is legitimate, and what it needs to be contrasted with citizens, and what we need is to agree on the formulas for resolving that conflict. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, of what the adoption of a motion entails, but we want to give it the courage that if this motion is approved, we will have sent a message to our societies, to Catalan society and to Spanish society, that it is possible by political means to direct the legitimate and democratic demands of a society. If we are not able to do so, we condemn ourselves to maintaining a conflict that neither most Catalans nor most Spaniards want. We support the democratic principle and, on the basis of the democratic principle, we will continue to defend our ideas. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in tomorrow's vote this motion will have the maximum possible support for democracy, for political solutions to political problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u226	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists are aware that there is a conflict, we saw it yesterday on 11 September, and we need to agree on the legal channels to resolve it. For seven years the governments of the People's Party in Spain and Convergence and its partners in Catalonia have been turning their backs not to talk, not to see, not to listen and, therefore, not to agree or cooperate. It has been good for you, the independence parties, that Rajoy refused to engage in dialogue, because you are only interested in talking about self-determination. That's why they lived better against Rajoy. But this is over, they have no excuse anymore. A democratic State cannot remain motionless in the face of its questioning. That is why we Socialists have set out a path of dialogue from the first moment by regaining institutional relations between the two governments, taking into account the normal development of state and autonomous public functions and services, and, secondly, by considering the demands that fall within our constitutional model, while maintaining respect for all constitutional, statutory and legal rules in force at all times. There can be no dialogue without respect for legality. That is why we add to your motion a final amendment which says:... within the framework of the existing legal order. If you accept it, as you seem to do, it will allow us to support your proposal. Seven years of conflict are not over in three months, but the opening of channels of dialogue allows us to move forward in approaches that can be widely shared by the majority of Catalan citizens and the rest of the Spanish. We can talk about anything but independence. This PDECAT proposal was presented on 28 June and since then there has not only been a meeting between the President of the Government and the President of the Generalitat, but there has been a dialogue in which up to eight ministers have met with various advisers. Today we will see in the interventions of the Citizens' Party and in the statements that Mr Casado is making these days that his opposition work focuses on that they care less about Spain because keeping the conflict in Catalonia open without seeking a solution gives them electoral benefits. There are some questions Mr. Married does not want to answer. Is the conflict in Catalonia, seven years after the People's Party government, better or worse? Has the coexistence in Catalonia improved? Do the citizens of Catalonia, voting for the party that votes, think that the Rajoy government has helped to improve things or to make them worse? That's why his leader doesn't answer these questions, he simply shows that Rajoy's government didn't exist and that, as a character from The Ministry of Time, he returns to the time of his former chief Aznar to copy his speeches and his political strategy of the rift. Mr. Casado believes that he is winning the battle against Citizens for the right-wing vote and Mr. Rivera has decided that his battlefield is Catalonia and wants to move him to the autonomous elections in Andalusia. As always, on the Spanish right, it is called Casado or Rivera, it cares little about Spain and much about the elections. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza Alonso. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group when it comes to fixing positions. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u229	Thank you very much, President. I would like to point out, first of all, that we will support the motion of the Democratic Party, PDECAT, which urges the Government to open a process of political dialogue with the Government of Catalonia in which all can defend their ideas, aspirations and projects without imposition or impediments; a dialogue which aims to agree on the legal and democratic channels that will enable Catalan society to determine its future. This motion is in line with others that we have discussed in this XII Legislature, but with the novelty of the change in the Government of the State last June, which has meant a change in the non-political that was previously practiced by the Government of the State on what is known as the Catalan question. A non-policy consisting in treating it from a purely police or judicial approach. A political problem has been brought to justice, and the result has not been its appeasement but its engulfment. And exemplary sentences can only be expected to prolong the so-called conflict and bring more suffering. We know - and we would like to be mistaken - that in the current judicial system the release of imprisoned Catalan politicians is not possible, but we continue to call for a fair trial without harshness and prejudice, although the past with Judge Llarena's defence of Belgian justice is not a good omen. The judicialization of politics only involves the politicization of justice, and once it is produced, political dialogue becomes extremely difficult because a judicialized political issue is largely removed from the political sphere and from its treatment through dialogue, negotiation and the pact. Non-political action has also meant that the central Government has applied coercion on individuals and their rights and freedoms alongside judicialization. This has not helped to resolve the conflict, but the opposite. We all have in mind - and today I have reminded the Minister of the Interior in a monitoring session - the events that occurred last year after the last Day after the dispatch of thousands of anti-disturbing agents from the Civil Guard and the National Police to intervene directly in public order without having been claimed and contrary to what the Catalan authorities, who were competent with regard to public order in Catalonia, have said. We all recall the application of article 155 of the Constitution and imprisonment. In short, repression and judicialization have not helped to resolve the conflict and have only added unnecessary suffering. Nor do we consider that the response of mobilization and getting out on the street contribute to a dialogue solution to the so-called Catalan question, but that it would continue to add unnecessary suffering. Between the street and mobilizations on the one hand and repression and judicialization on the other, the space of dialogue and a dialogue solution, the space of politics, must be sought and found. Dialogue from trust and respect for each other, as was said in the debate on the question that this motion causes. Dialogue in which each one defends his or her interests but without putting impossible conditions on one another, each one knowing what the limits of the other are. Dialogue with capitals. Dialogue that even in the worst conditions must be maintained. Dialogue based on the golden rule that has already been said: do not impose, do not prevent. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a policy and a dialogue solution between the stake and the street. Ladies and gentlemen, we can expect something from dialogue and politics; from judicialization and repression only the prolongation of the conflict and more unnecessary suffering. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying for a long time, we say and we will say - and we will remember it next week to the President of the Government when we have him here at the control session - that there is only one solution, the solution of the dialogue. The more dialogue, the greater the capacity to negotiate. The more negotiation, the greater the chances of reaching an agreement. This is our currency and this will be our way of proceeding always. I want to highlight this commitment: dialogue, negotiation and agreement. Without footsteps, without limits, without footsteps, which is what the Vice-President of the Government also said a few weeks ago, before the summer, when Esquerra Republicana filed a motion in this regard. From scratch. In fact, we would not have reached where we arrived if in 2014, when three commissioners of the Catalan Parliament came here, the Courts would have said: Let's talk. I'm not saying the courts would have said, "We agree with you. Only that the Congress of Deputies had said to Commissioners Rovira, Turull and Herrera: Let's talk. If that were the case, it is very possible that today we would not be where we are, we would be in a better position. So it is clear that we are in favour of dialogue. Now, there is only one way to resolve it: through a referendum. A referendum that doesn't exclude anyone. That is why we intellectually and politically want to be honest and say: If you intend to address the Catalans by saying to them: do you want the autonomy you have or want more autonomy?, you have every right to do so. And it is their obligation, but they cannot exclude 50% of Catalans who are not autonomous. What do you do with 50% of Catalans who are not autonomous, who are independent? Are we excluded? In the same way, we independentists recognize and have to recognize that a solution cannot be imposed without 50% Catalans who are autonomous. This is the debate, this will be the debate of the coming times, it will be the debate that we will have to face. Look, with how difficult it is intellectually and politically what we have in our hands, how are we going to deny dialogue? You have to start walking. Now, no clipboards. I'm asking you for a favor, in fact we're all asking for it. Laugh, let's all laugh for not crying about the emotional fracture that meant the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling. If you - when I say you refer to the State -, if you condemn our legitimate representatives and those people who have all the recognition of Catalan society and even a large part of those who do not think like them - like Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart - are sentenced to fifteen and twenty years in prison, can you imagine the political and emotional fracture, which will also serve no purpose because it will not solve anything at all? Even perhaps there would be some independenceist who would say in a sense: Better, because the more oppressed we are, the better it will be for us. Analysis I don't share. So dialogue, negotiation, and agreement with courage and without footsteps. I repeat, no clipboards. I repeat, no clipboards. And depending on whether this concept is adopted, we will also vote in the vote tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u233	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tardà spoke of some of the excluded who would be the independenceists. Mr Tardà, the excluded are the ones who do not share the independence theses of the Government of Catalonia; the excluded are the ones against whom TV3 works. We are those who are constantly insulted by public television and radio; those who were excluded from the Diada de Catalunya yesterday. The whole approach, the whole Diada organization was aimed at the independenceists, they don't count on us at all. Catalonia is the only place in Spain where pluralism is not respected. You, who are presented as excluded, are here occupying most of the time in this House with your particular complaint, which is ideological, not territorial, because in Catalonia we are more those who do not share your thesis than those who share it. [[Applauds]] How can you say they're excluded? We are excluded, with a government that does not represent us, that does not work for us, that works against our interests. Please! The dialogue, of course, is formidable. Who will deny the virtues of dialogue? But is there true dialogue when one of the two sides raises sine qua non conditions, untouchable premises that are: one, let there be no what you call political prisoners, that is, political prisoners. And, two, that a referendum on self-determination be held. What will for dialogue is there in the tragala, in the famous 'yes or yes'; in what he said in his day Artur Mas, 'with the law or without the law'; in what he has said Torra,'referendum or referendum'? But what is that? Where's the dialogue? You're starting from two impossible premises. The first, because there is no Executive Power in a democracy that can give orders to the Judiciary, and it seems a lie that they have not yet understood it. [[applause]] On the basis of discrediting politics in democracy you end up having companies with which I know that you personally do not share anything, but when you go into the drift of claiming that the judiciary does what two governments, one central and one autonomous, want, when you go into that kind of drift, the delegitimization of a fully homologable democratic state, it happens that you end up accompanying in their demonstration those who accompanied you yesterday: the North League of Mateo Salvini. You counted on 1 October as an international observer with MEP Mario Borghezio, who occasionally exhibits a stellate in the European Parliament. A guy who set fire to an immigrant settlement. I don't attribute it to you, I don't do it as TV3. I already know he's not the one who's called the Diada, but they end up joining these kind of people. Vlaams Belang, the formation condemned for promoting racism, xenophobia, homophobia was there yesterday. Identity Ireland, extreme right xenophobic. Arnaldo Otegi, the selfies and the Russian roulette as well. Carles Sastre, whom they call the great reserve of independence, the guy who put a bomb on José María Bultó's chest and killed him and who was sentenced to forty-eight years in prison for murdering Bultó and seventeen years in prison for belonging to armed gangs and arms trafficking. Why do they teach with these people? Don't you realize that doesn't do you any favors? Don't you realize that...? I insist, eh?, I'm not putting you specifically, you, the person sitting next to you, in the same bag because we don't play those paragons or those parallels or that fat brush. If you would have triumphed - it won't happen, and I'm sorry for you - at what price would you have succeeded? At the price of breaking a democratic State in contravention of all the rules of a democratic and rule of law State. Do you think it's worth it, Mr. Tardà? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u234	Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u235	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Yesterday, the Catalans and the Catalans lived a new day on September 11, a Diada prohibited by Francoist repression, banned by that dictator who continues to be buried with honours of State, to the shame of all who are sitting here, and which was declared a Diada national in the first law approved by the Parliament of Catalonia when it regained its sovereignty. Much has rained since 1980 when the popular mobilization for the rights and freedoms of Catalans and Catalans was declared our country's national day and yet it is difficult to imagine a Diada in such a democratic anomaly as yesterday. Yesterday, millions of people went to the streets again in the different mobilizations that there was to claim our rights and our freedoms, but yesterday was above all the Day of Absences. There will be no normality until all those imprisoned for their political ideas are in their homes, but neither will there be a solution until all political institutions and formations engage in dialogue and a common agenda of distension because dialogue is fundamental. At the political moment when we are, after all that has happened, those who do not want to dialogue and reach agreements will remain in political irrelevance and political irrelevance is not to have more or less Members, the political irrelevance is that your Members do not serve to change things. That is why it seems to us that it would be an excellent news and a message of hope to all Catalans, to whom bipartisanism has so disappointed over the past decade, that today Congress will stand in favour of dialogue for a democratic exit. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that I would be glad that tomorrow you will not make the mistake of not voting in favour of bilateral dialogue, as you have done with the proposal of the Republican Left of Catalonia. It will be great news if today, in the second round, the Socialist Party votes in favour of bilateral dialogue. Do you know why, Mr. Zaragoza? Because it is Mr Puigdemont, who is most interested in a second negative of the PSOE, who wants to feed the story at all costs, who we deny with the motion censored, that in Spain things cannot be changed. The commitment of all the institutions to the agenda of détente and dialogue is the best way we have to draw a horizon in Catalonia in the face of Mr Torra's dead end. We have seen in a week the erraticness of Mr. Torra's policies, from the conference where he said nothing to the interview in La Sixth, where his silences said everything. Today Catalonia is without leadership; today, when most necessary, it would be an inclusive leadership that would push forward, a leadership where all Catalans feel recognized and that would put on the table a proposal that would talk about rights and freedoms in a broad sense, that would of course appeal to the freedom of political prisoners, from the UPC to the Socialist Party a majority that would push for a Government in Spain to understand the plurinationality of the State and respect the right to decide of all its peoples. We know that we do not yet have a government of change as we aspire to build, as we do in Barcelona, Madrid, Sabadell or have had it in Badalona. The Sánchez Government is a transition government to change in which we have to act as a compass to ensure that the majority consensus in Catalonia is respected. Let's all agree. This morning we presented the five proposals of the Communs, let us sit down and talk so that the entire Catalan society can win. Now is the time of politics, it is the time to respond among all Catalanist forces to the mobilizations of recent years, the best response to the various mobilizations of yesterday is that tomorrow Congress opens to bilateral dialogue, the legal system is never an obstacle, the political will is. And in front of those who have no proposal, to those who have been dedicated all summer to undoing yellow ties from the railings because they have no proposal either for Catalonia or for Spain; or to those who are still looking for their master - lords of the PP, tell Mr. Casado not to look for it any more, that the former Montón has already taught him which is the way: resignation -. The only possible way for Mr. Married is to resign. In the face of those without a proposal, ours already knows it - I finish, President -, our proposal you already know it: referendum and recognition of plurinationality. We sincerely believe that this is a majority and consensus proposal. Let us make it possible for democratic institutions and political forces to commit themselves to an agenda of dialogue and for that agenda not to remain in the air, which serves, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to improve people's lives, which is what we have come here for. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena Arca. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u237	Thank you, Madam President. We discuss a motion of Catalan nationalism in favour of dialogue that is part of the great lie of nationalism, it is part of that story that says that Spain is a democracy of low intensity and does not dialogue. Lie! Nationalism has always spoken here, has always been heard and has always decided, everything in Catalonia and much here in Madrid, with all the governments of Spain. And for years it has taken advantage of that agreement, that dialogue, to act with disloyalty following its objectives: to seize all power in Catalonia and to eliminate from Catalonia all that means Spain. After ten years of muttering with the statue, they had no doubt about liquidated the Statute of Catalonia without mercy on September 6 and 7 last year. They tried to impose a totalitarian republic sine die because they believed that the time had come for the final solution. Totalitarianism, hispanophobia, violence. We have seen the abduction of a judicial authority using violence. We knew they were planning to take airports by force in which it seemed like an uncontrolled madness. And we knew they tried to buy military weapons. After years of massive street exhibitions, those who sent the Mossos to stop and to remove the ballot boxes from the multi-party referendum called on people to obstruct justice by making passive resistance; passive resistance that Artur Mas himself defined as violence. They were looking for bloodshed because they fantasized with a therapeutic secession; they even hired agents to spread fake news for years. Can one dialogue with people who lie, who use violence, with those who violate the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia? In forty years only nationalism has spoken on behalf of Catalonia, it has been a monologue and the time has come for us to hear the voice of all Catalans, the rest of Catalans, because nationalism threatens our freedom and our identity. Let the voices of the Catalans be heard that we are not ashamed of either our parents or our grandparents, that we are not allowed to be called carnegos. Let the voices of the Catalans be heard that we do not agree with the linguistic immersion, that linguistic immersion that the nationalist elites avoid for their children and that impose on us the rest of Catalans, not to mention the harassment of children for being children of civil guards. Let us hear the voice of the Catalans who are outraged by the pedagogy of TV3 hatred, before subtle and now unravelled. All that propaganda and all that hate pedagogy have managed to get many Catalans away from Spain emotionally, but they have managed to do so by keeping them away from reality. Many Catalans know about the airport of Castellón or the rescue of the motorways in Madrid, but they know nothing about the Line 9 -20 billion euros -, of the ACA -25 billion euros -, of the hospital of Sant Pau or Spanair -600 million euros each -, and so up to 85 billion euros, the worst autonomous government of Spain not only in moral, but also in quantitative. We have the right to talk about the truth in Catalonia, by the way, with a Parliament closed by secessions. Nationalism wants to keep Catalonia kidnapped, occupy everything to impose its totalitarian republic. Therefore, we must recover spaces in front of nationalism, as we did in October with the demonstrations with which we recovered the street, as the body of brigades of cleaning, movement, this yes, from bottom to top, not protected by parties or subsidies, anonymous people who withdraw ties because for many Catalans the bonds and stellates in public spaces are not an expression, they are an aggression to our freedom, to our identity and to coexistence. Many Catalans cannot prevent those who hang them think of us as subhuman beasts with a patch in the DNA, in the words of Quim Torra. We have the right to have the law protect us; Catalans who are not nationalists have the right to dialogue that we must put limits on the Government of the Generalitat, limits on education, on TV3, in external action and in public spaces. Nationalism has placed Catalonia on the verge of a very peculiar austerity, in which one side occupies everything against the other side and with many costs. That's the dialogue we have to make. We must recover spaces, also here, in Congress - and we will talk about that soon - especially with dialogue, but not with monologue. What has happened in the last forty years with regard to the Catalans has not been dialogue, but monologue of nationalism and has not led us to anything good. Ladies and gentlemen, visca Catalunya liure de nationalisme. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Roca Mas. For the purposes of whether or not you accept the amendment tabled, Mr Campuzano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u239	Yes, we accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-12-CD180912.u240	Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
