ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u1	The meeting was resumed. Let's go on, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Go ahead, Your Honor. And I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u2	Does the Government believe that the decision of the German courts to consider the crime of rebellion inadmissible has damaged the image of Spain in Europe?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u3	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u4	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I don't think so, at all. The image of Spain in Europe and the world is not blurred at all, we are considered as a rule of law, a state that respects freedoms, that respects the separation of powers, and therefore our cooperation in Europe and throughout the world is what it does to strengthen that democracy that we have built among all. The legal discrepancies that may exist in judicial proceedings are that, legal discrepancies that fall within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Therefore, these tensions that may exist in legal interpretations have nothing to do with the assessment of the quality of democracy, which in Spain is very high, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martín González, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u6	Minister, your government's disastrous management of the conflict with Catalonia has placed not only you, but the entire state under the scrutiny of the European Union. An examination that was suspended last Thursday with the judgment of the German court, in the face of the attentive gaze of hundreds of journalists from all over the world who the next day reported on the front pages of the international press the ridiculousness of their government. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that Europe has to take our colours out, because just a month ago we were also ashamed of the condemnation of Spain of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for violating freedom of expression. I wonder: how long are they going to continue to damage the image of Spanish justice here and around the world? Do you not realize that Spain is increasingly seen as an anomaly in Europe, and that this isolates us internationally? [[Rumors.-Several Members: Hala!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u8	When you violate rights or when you invent crimes - which countries where you govern your own allies, like Germany, have to deny later - what you are demonstrating is that you are not up to the values that founded Europe. But seeing your spokesman's statements in the European Parliament saying that the European Union if it does not say what you want to hear - and I quote textually - it loses its meaning, one no longer knows what to think. Anyone would say that you have learned from Puigdemont that of: We only like Europe when I am right. And, like him, they have now decided to become Eurosceptics. And if not, they have a golden opportunity today to prove it. Admit what we all know: there has been no rebellion or terrorism or violence in Catalonia. And understand that your strategy of leaving politics in the hands of the judges was buried in the heart of Europe last Thursday. We do not want to remain the European anomaly, we want to be a leading country in the defence of democracy and human rights. Europe has not only pointed out what has not to be done, but also points out the solution: to end the politicisation of justice, to abandon unilaterality and to return to politics. In Catalonia, many people are tired of a situation in which the independence parties are entangled in a Parliament that is of all people to deal with the attacks of their government out of control. That is why we ask you, Minister, to rectify, to rectify and to listen, showing that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u9	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u10	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I think you're confusing the terms. Does a German court, in the exercise of its responsibilities, make a decision seem to you to be an examination of a government or a country? It seems to me that you are confusing the terms absolutely. You have certainly read, as we have all read, the articles that are being published in the Frankfurter Allgemeine, for example, yesterday, or what the German government spokesman said or what he told me, and then said in the press, the German minister that her statements have been misinterpreted and that she had no criticism of democracy and the rule of law in Spain. [[Applauds]] I imagine you've read it and you know it. And you also know the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights: of the twenty-eight countries that are part of the European Union of this Court, Spain is the third least condemned in recent years in relation to citizens' rights. [[Applauds]] However, ladies and gentlemen, if there is any anomaly in Spain and in Europe, it is that of those political parties which always side with the anti-Europeans, the xenophobics, the radicals, the fascists. I would be much more concerned about who are on the side of those who are not building Europe, than not just the governments and countries that defend the rule of law, freedoms, the separation of powers, and with all respect we accept the judgments of the courts, not only when we like them, as happens to you, but each and every one of the sentences always, because that is one of the pillars of freedom and democracy, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u11	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON TXEMA GUIJARRO GARCIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND TO THE MARY, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MECHANISMS CONTemplATE THE GOVERNMENT, IN PROPOSED TO THE RECENT DETENTION IN MADRID OF THE COLLABORATOR OF THE SPANISH TAX AUTHORITIES, MR HERVÉ FALCIANI, FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLABORATION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF LEGAL ACTS? [[File number 180/00595]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u12	Question now by Mr Txema Guijarro García, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning. With regard to the recent arrest of Mr Falciani, Minister, what mechanisms does the Government envisage for the protection of persons who cooperate in clarifying criminal acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u14	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u15	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that in relation to the case that you put to me there are two levels: on the one hand, a jurisdictional decision of the National Court, and therefore it is exclusively a matter of the courts; and, secondly, as regards the protection that the complainants have and the mechanisms that may exist, it is those that are in the law. I therefore believe that we are dealing with a very clear case in which two principles are conjugated: on the one hand, the separation of powers, respect for the actions of the courts; and on the other, the rule of law, to comply with what the laws say. That is why we can all be very calm, because in this case, as in so many others, there is separation of powers and compliance with the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Guijarro, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u17	Former Swiss bank computer HSBC, Hervé Falciani, has been collaborating as you know since May 2010 with our country's prosecution and tax agency, as well as with other foreign authorities. The Falciani list has made it possible to identify important cases of money-laundering, drug trafficking and terrorist financing around the world. In Spain his collaboration has been instrumental in bringing about 300 million euros that were blatantly on the way to the escape, and after which there would be up to 659 suspected and great Spanish defrauders, names like Emilio Botín, Ana Patricia Botín - I don't know if they ring a bell - to cite only some of those powerful cynically self-proclaimed patriots. Already in May 2013, the National Court rejected a first extradition request issued by Switzerland to be tried for the acts for which it was subsequently convicted in that country. His former employer, HSBC, accused him of circulating information that demonstrated precisely the necessary collaboration of this bank to deliberately hide tax resources. The Spanish court then argued that Mr Falciani had fulfilled the obligation of all citizens, public and private officials, to disclose unlawful acts when we are witnesses to them. And now comes the unexpected turn of this whole story, Minister. Four years later, in May 2017, Switzerland sent a new arrest warrant with exactly the same charges that had been dismissed earlier by the hearing. The principle of legal certainty would therefore invite us to think that it would not have a long way to go, yet the Government receives it a year ago and processes it now. Mr Catalá, can you explain to us why the Government receives the arrest warrant a year ago and is now active? I hope that you can confirm here today that this coincides with the need for Swiss cooperation to prosecute Catalan politicians. Mr Catalá, I ask you: what kind of message to the citizenry, what warning to navigators do you think you should disseminate public institutions? Either he is with the people who collaborate to avoid the looting of the common or instead he is with the looters of the common. Ultimately, here two interests are clearly opposed: that of our public services... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u18	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u19	Thank you, President. As I have tried to explain in the first intervention here we are talking about the separation of powers and the rule of law. That is what we are talking about, I don't know if it is that in the faculties of economics or political science those subjects are not studied, but I assure you that that is strictly what happens in this case, because I don't understand how you can be talking about a dark exchange of favors, as Mr. Iglesias says, or as Mr. Mayoral says, an exchange of hostages. [[Rumors]] I think fewer movies, less The Spy Bridge or less Free Willy and much more application of international law. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have an international treaty, an agreement with Switzerland, a country in Europe, with which we have hundreds of extradition files...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u20	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u21	... that they ask us, we ask them and that they be handled with absolute normality, in collaboration with Interpol, in collaboration with the courts that make the decisions. When Mr. Falciani was denied his extradition it was because it was decided by the National Court, and now a new request from the Swiss authorities has been handled in the same way. The State Security Forces and Bodies transmit it to the judiciary and the judiciary carries out the file when it considers and sees that there are sufficient elements within it. That is therefore strictly the procedure in which we are in. I imagine you will not be insinuating that if it were true what you have said, that Mr Falciani has collaborated so much with justice, that creates no impunity for him. Therefore, if Switzerland says after a trial and a judgment requesting extradition, the obligation of a loyal and friendly country such as Spain must promote that and assist in what the courts decide. Nothing more and nothing less, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u22	Thank you. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO PRENDES, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT OPINION DO THE GOVERNMENT DESERVE THE RELIINDICATIONS OF THE ASOCATIONS OF JUICES AND TAXES FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF JUSTICE? [[File number 180/00599]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u23	Question also addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr José Ignacio Prendes Prendes, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u24	Thank you, President. This 2018 seems like the year of justice, but not precisely because of the good news it generates. In January as you in Europe apologized to the Greek Group for not guaranteeing effective judicial independence in our courts, in the subcommittee of the National Pact for Justice in this Congress you voted - together with the Socialist Group - against our proposal to depoliticize the General Council of the Judiciary. In February, also with the invaluable cooperation of the Socialist Group, they voted against the citizens' proposal to provide genuine independence and autonomy from the government of the prosecutor's office. Finally, last March, the four professional associations of judges and judges and the three professional associations of prosecutors, in an unprecedented initiative, signed a manifesto to be heard and claim three principles: professionalization, modernization and independence. These mobilizations began last April 5 with remarkable success. The question is bound, Minister: do you intend to do anything to resolve this rampant deterioration of justice or are you going to remain in action as in so many other areas? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u25	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u26	Thank you, President. Mr Prendes, every day - I dare say - meetings, talks, negotiations with associations of judges and prosecutors are a daily practice in the Ministry of Justice. Every day there are working meetings, and of course we are looking at and trying to find solutions to the problems, which are historical problems - they are not of this year 2018-: when they talk about transparency in appointments, when they talk about strengthening independence or autonomy. We are therefore working on this every day, and the instruments are very simple: the budgets in terms of economic aspects and legal reforms. Your Honor, here they are, there are legal reforms presented in this House, they are in the Committee on Justice. I hope we can count on your support to approve them as soon as possible and to be able to meet the demands of the associations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Prendes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u28	I was expecting your answer, obviously in pure manual. Look, with regard to legal reforms, I hope that you do not consider that self-reform, that self-amendment that you have raised with respect to a three-article bill of the People's Group and that you have amended the last day of the term with fifty amendments as a legal reform. Fifty amendments which are likely to have a rebound effect, i.e. not to go ahead with what was agreed and which was of pure justice, being cut short in the proposals for reform of justice, which are purely cosmetic. With regard to the budget, he knows that we are committed to it, but it is not just having a budget, but being able to spend it, having directionality in investments and leadership in order to address that process of modernizing justice. Look at what is happening in Galicia - two months already of a judicial strike - or in Asturias, where the courts have been paralysed since last Thursday, unable to report judgements or file lawsuits for a purely computer incompatibility issue. Minister, the questions are very clear. Do you want to address the depoliticization of the council, undertaking what you have agreed with us on the direct election of your vowels? Are you willing to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prendes, you know very well that in the subcommittee that was created for the elaboration of the national justice strategy we had agreed in round numbers more than a hundred measures among all the participants and you left it, surely because you did not want to give a message of reform and transformation. So they probably have to make him look at it. What do you really want? They speak of politicization or independence from justice when they know very well that what we are talking about is the General Council of the Judiciary, which is not justice. Justice is each of the 5500 judges who every day in the exercise of their judicial function are absolutely independent in Spain. We do very badly if we try to confuse justice with the council and send the citizens an image that in Spain there are problems of politicization of justice. That's not true, Your Honor. We can change the system of choice of the vowels, no doubt, but it is not a problem of politicization of justice or of independence at all. In the Committee on Justice there are very important legislative reforms under way to the Organic Law on the Judiciary and the Civil Prosecution Act, and I hope that we will find the support of the groups to be able to take them forward and as soon as possible, Your Honor. There may be 50 amendments or whatever, but we will approve these reforms as soon as possible and we will be addressing the problems. And I hope that the budgets can be approved as soon as possible because they contain appropriations to increase by 300 places the public employment offer of judges and prosecutors for this year, to increase the endowments of material and technological means, and to increase by more than 2% in personnel costs, and therefore to meet wage demands. Budgets and bills include the measures that justice needs. I hope we can count on your support to move it forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u31	Thank you very much. - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO I CANADAS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE LEGAL DISCREATIONS, IN CONCEPTS AS RELEVANT AS VIOLENCE AND REBELLION, BETWEEN THE JUDICIAL SYSTEMS OF SPAIN AND OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES? [[File number 180/00609]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u32	Question by Mr Campuzano, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u33	Minister, how does the government value legal discrepancies in such relevant concepts as violence and rebellion between the judicial systems of Spain and other European countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u34	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you said very well about legal discrepancies between judicial systems. Therefore, it is clarified by the judicial systems, which are for that purpose. I firmly believe in the separation of powers and we will never tell the courts what they have to solve. We're not going to crush them, nor are we going to coerce them. We absolutely respect the separation of powers, and those legal discrepancies will be resolved by the courts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Campuzano i Canadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, you cannot minimize the judgment of the German court. It is a tremendous sham to the political and judicial strategy that the Government has developed, mainly because it questions the fallacious account of the violence that justifies the accusations of rebellion and the provisional prisons that are being applied to people who are innocent. Europe is saying that there is no violence, that there is no rebellion and that there is no point in ordering temporary prisons, and you are taking refuge in the action of justice. You must remember that you have chosen the criminal route to deal with this problem, that you have mobilized the Attorney General's Office and the Civil Guard to produce amazing reports, and that you are building a political account on violence and terrorism that is extremely dangerous and irresponsible, Mr Catalá. Mr Felipe González reminded you that the government of judges is a mistake. That is their mistake, they have given up doing politics and have outsourced the solution to a political problem to justice. And the political consequences are very obvious. See, democracy in Spain is deteriorating, and fundamental rights are being violated on behalf of Spain. The United Nations Human Rights Committee - and it would not be right for you to disregard it - urges the State to take precautionary measures to guarantee the political rights of Mr. Jordi Sánchez Picanyol, who must be appointed President of the Generalitat next Friday. Citizens have the perception that justice in Spain is not impartial and independent of the Government, and in Catalonia there is the conviction that justice is not practiced, but revenge is practiced. The image of Spain is deteriorated and this legislature is exhausted; we do not know if we have budgets. Minister, the German decision is an opportunity to rectify. Have the political courage to rectify, open up political dialogue, do what is in your hands to free the prisoners and take responsibility. It was their incompetence and negligence that led us to this situation. It's up to you to start changing it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u38	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. You continue to argue that it is the Government that has to do things for judges to decide one or the other. I think you have an important confusion of first democracy, Your Honor. The judges perform their duties with absolute independence, and the Government and Parliament carry out their duties, each in their responsibilities. This is what a healthy democracy means. I see that you don't have it very clear; that's how it goes. Ladies and gentlemen, you also make some wonderful phrases: in?Europe' they have said that there is no violence, in?Europe' they have said that provisional prisons should not be made. ?Europe', you have the representation of a lot of people. I too read many things about?Europe' that recognize the rule of law in Spain, that recognize the separation of powers and that recognize our freedoms. In any case, Your Honor, you are very lucky, you are a lucky person, because you can come to this House with that bond that is offensive, because you say that there are political prisoners in Spain. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You say that there are political prisoners, and there are no political prisoners in Spain, Your Honor, there are no political prisoners in Spain, in Spain there are political prisoners. And you can come here to say it quietly, and yet there are others who in Catalonia can't talk and can't walk because they threaten them, they crush them. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, ladies, yes, and they paint them in their homes. They threaten them, paint them in their homes, crush them, and you don't care about that. That is what you have achieved: a climate of confrontation, a climate of threats; that is what you are achieving in Catalonia thanks to these approaches, Your Honor. Congratulations, those are the freedoms, that's the'revolution of smiles' that you want to get. I believe that they are doing a very serious damage to democracy with these approaches, Your Honor. Let us respect the actions of the judges, let us abide by the sentences, respect the rule of law and surely we will have a better democracy in our country. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u40	Thank you. - OF César Joaquín Ramos Esteban, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the honourable Minister of Fomento: What do the budget forecasts in relation to the recovery of peacock autopists? [[File number 180/00607]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u41	Questions now to the Minister for Development. He asked, first of all, Mr Joaquín Ramos Esteban, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u42	Minister, what is the real cost of rescuing broken toll roads?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u44	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you know - I have already told you many times - here no one is rescuing anything, because what we are doing is taking over the management of motorways that have entered a liquidation process, and therefore we have a legal obligation as infrastructure holders. As soon as the termination of the contracts takes place, we will have six months to establish, one by one, the value of the management's property liability, and at that time the amount of that value will be known, in the same way that it will also be effective, both the value of the seizure of the guarantees, which we have already put into effect and which will come into effect at the time when the termination of the contracts takes place, for a value close to 250 million euros, and the revenues from the relicitation process that we are dealing with and which we estimate between 700 and 1 billion euros. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Ramos Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u46	Minister, we are facing one of the biggest shames of the People's Party government of this century, and there are many. All broken toll roads were designed, planned and built by the People's Party governments. [[Mr. García Aegean: It's not like that.]] And now another government of the People's Party, yours, is going to rescue them. Everything stays at home. I am ashamed to know the billions that will cost the Spaniards the rescue of these toll freeways while the pensions are not guaranteed to our elders. I am outraged to hear the billions that are going to be spent on these toll freeways while the extremists have not had a decent train for a long time, just like the citizens of Huelva. I am ashamed to know that billions of euros are being paid to rescue broken toll roads when, again, they want to extend and grant the freeways that comply with their concession for citizens to continue paying, including the AP-1. Minister, tell the Spanish the truth: the rescue of toll freeways is going to cost them many billions, more than you are going to announce this year. Minister, tell them that they have decided that broken toll roads will be paid among all Spaniards, and that they will then hand them over to companies to continue doing business and taking advantage. Minister, say that the planning, development and construction of these toll freeways was a mistake. Minister, say that your colleagues set the figures so that toll freeways would be profitable and viable when they were not. Minister, say that they will not continue to use the money of all Spaniards to make partisan policies. It is a shame what the People's Party does and its policy follows two maxims: profits for companies and that we pay among all the debts of toll freeways. It's a shame. Yesterday AENA decided on its shareholders' board that it will give 140 million extra to the investment funds that gave a ball, while more than 400 AENA workers are on an indefinite strike because they want to lower their wages and working conditions. It's a shame to look at him wherever he looks at him. The Government of the People's Party is a disgrace to this country, to the workers, to the families who are having a bad time and to the pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u47	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, what is a shame is that you left AENA broken and it was the People's Party that got a healthy company that currently generates a lot of jobs. [[applause]] What is a shame is that you, not us, for those highways that you mention set up participatory loans for, nothing more and nothing less, 483 million euros. The People's Party government did not set up a euro in participatory loans, which is one of the causes of the problem we now have. What is a shame is that you, not the People's Party, decided to approve compensation accounts for EUR 80 million in order precisely to encourage the return of the companies to which you refer, without the People's Party Government having established any compensation accounts. You still, at this point, talk about extensions of contractual deadlines and higher tariffs. I remind you of data and I give you dates. 2010, R-2, extension for more than fourteen years and increase of 2%; Alicante-Cartagena, 2010, increase of the tariff of 1%; R-3 and R-5, increase of 18%, all of its government, and of 2% annually; in MalagaLas Pedrizas, January 2011, only two months in service and already increased the rates by 20%; R-4, 1 %; in the connections of Segovia and Ávila of AP-6, increases of the rates to compensate all the extra costs... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u49	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEW PLAN OF MADRID CERCANIES DO? [[File number 180/00601]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u50	Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, also to Mr de Fomento. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, last April 5th presented the Integral Plan for the Improvement of Nearby Services in Madrid, a very important plan not only because of its budget allocation exceeding EUR 5100 million, but especially because it aims to improve the quality of the service it provides to more than 5.6 million users in the region. A plan that, contrary to previous closeness plans, emerges from a detailed and rigorous analysis of the real needs of the people of Madrid, and part of the open dialogue with the regional government and, above all, with the municipal governments of different political signs. I would like to emphasise the rigorousness of the matter, Minister, because the last close-up plan for Madrid, presented by the Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, we met him in 2007, in the middle of the campaign, when the candidate for the Presidency of the Government of the Community of Madrid by the Socialist Party presented a plan for the extension of close-ups which intended to create ten new routes and the extension of seven, among them, one arrived in my municipality, in Boadilla del Monte. Do you know what happened, Minister? That in 2009, when the Socialist Government presented the Plan of Neighbourhoods 2009-2015, Boadilla del Monte disappeared for the Socialist Government, along with many other municipalities governed by the People's Party. If this disappearance of a municipality was not enough to demonstrate the lack of rigour and commitment of the then socialist government to the Madriders, it should be remembered that only two years later, in 2011 and before winning the elections, the socialist government had only approved one of the studies and had not bid any of the works present in that plan. That is the Socialist Party's commitment to public work. However, the plan that you have presented is rigorous, responsive to the real needs of the citizens, of the Madridns and, above all, seeks to expand the capacity of the network, minimize the number of incidents that we know have been detected on the 277 trains of the network itself and offer to the Madridns a public service of quality. This is done without taking into account ideologies, but prioritizing the needs of the Madriders and not making partisan calculations. Thus, for example, among the most immediate and well-known actions, it is intended to improve the frequencies of the Móstoles line or of the Henares corridor, where the People's Party does not govern precisely. But, Minister, apart from what we have known in the press these days, my group would like to know your detailed assessment of the new neighbourhood plan in the Community of Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr González, indeed, the Government's assessment, as you have done, is very positive about the plan we presented on 5 April, as a result of our interest in improving the services in Madrid. The 2018-2025 plan will address a whole process of modernization of railway infrastructures, the incorporation of new rolling stock and the improvement of services, including information to the traveller, with an investment of 5 billion euros, which aims to improve that service to citizens and also reduce the incidences, because you know that these occur in close proximity that gives service to 241 million travelers, which have more than 360 kilometers, nine commercial lines and 92 stations. We have made a profound diagnosis over almost a year on the situation of the infrastructure and we have raised nine axes of action, four of them respond to the role that ADIF has to develop, mainly in improving reliability and capacity and also, as you have mentioned, in the extension of the network; among them there are 1 billion for actions as important as the cross-cutting axis between San Fernando de Henares and Prince Pio. On the other hand, we will also act in the stations, in the parking lots and from Renfe, in a process of renewal of the fleet very important to improve the availability and reliability, with 324 million euros on the existing fleet and an action of 2279 million euros for the renovation and acquisition of 172 trains. It is not a long-term plan, but it also envisages a shock plan, a plan of urgent measures for the first two years, with an investment of 580 million euros destined essentially to renew the most immediate; among these infrastructures is the tunnel of Recoletos and the start of the tender of the purchase of new trains with a value of 240 million euros, as well as the immediate update of the stations. In short, an ambitious but realistic plan, with which we are going to improve, and much, the service that we are currently providing to the whole of the Community of Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ARE THE OBJECTIVES OF THE DRAFT BUDGETS YOU HAVE PRESENTED? [[File number 180/00603]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u54	Questions now to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Firstly, a question from Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. What are the objectives of the draft budgets you have submitted to the House?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Lastra, the target is double. Firstly, to strengthen economic recovery, job creation and promote that 13 million people, whose income depends on budgets, increase their incomes, as well as to encourage the improvement of the financing of public services, the development of new public investments and, at the same time, to establish, strengthen political stability at the present time in Spain, which is the great value on which the confidence of economic and social actors is built within and outside Spain. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra Fernández, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u59	Thank you. Mr Minister, these budgets follow the same strategy as the previous budgets, as you said, which basically consists of two ways. The first, always cut through social expenditure and through productive expenditure. They are based on the improvement of competitiveness in wage devaluation and in a minimum social state beyond what you said before, which has nothing to do with reality, which is the smallest in the European Union in relation to GDP; not also able to meet the needs of the most disadvantaged. In your model it is inequality that finances competitiveness, Minister. Do not invest in modernisation programmes such as R & D+i, industry or SME support programmes. By the way, budget implementation in these programmes is very low. Public investment is at levels 20 years ago, Minister. They lack a real policy to achieve decent wages, improve working conditions, eradicate severe poverty, recover basic public services such as education, health, social services or dependency. By the way, where are the 200 million euros of gender-based violence, Minister and Lords of Citizens? [[Applauds]] The rise in minimum pensions is also an alibi to continue without guaranteeing the rise of all pensions linked to the increase in the cost of living. And they still do not take steps to increase social security income and guarantee pensions for all. These are budgets of the past, as is this Government, a government of the past. And in the face of its unjust policy, which makes workers and middle incomes finance their budget patches, the future can only go through a tax reform that guarantees a better redistribution of wealth. It is not the budgets that Spanish society needs, it is the budgets that Rajoy needs to stay in government with the support of Rivera, with the support of Citizens. A couple that works perfectly, Minister, you know better than anyone, between scarecrows and disguises, yes; but always together and protecting themselves, as we are seeing these days, where Citizens is the only endorsement that the People's Party and the President, Mrs Cifuentes, have to continue with that government from lying in the Community of Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u60	Minister, go ahead. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I see that the Socialist Parliamentary Group maintains the constructive spirit in promoting economic recovery, job creation in Spain, in distributing equitably the benefits of economic growth through State budgets. One more example, because you're right, this is a government that has a certain antiquity, you know why? Because the Spaniards call the government every time you ruin the country, in the 1990s and 2011. [[applause]] From there, we are in the most competitive economy of our history, that is, we are measured in exports, in internationalization; we are measured in the pace of economic growth sustained and self-financed by our companies and we are faced with the most social budgets of our history, because we had never spent so much public spending for social purposes, fulfilling our commitments as, of course, is the commitment to the fight against gender violence. [[rumors]] Mrs Lastra, a country's political stability is not about maintaining or supporting a government. The political stability of a country is in line with the fundamental votes, such as the votes on a draft budget law with which we are in favour of freedom, Europeanity, the rule of law, the unity of Spain and being against precisely political groups that want to curb economic growth and job creation... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u62	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ JAVIER LASARTE IRIBARREN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT WORTH DOING FOR THE RESULTS OF THE FIGHT AGAINST TAX FRAUD? [[File number 180/00606]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u63	Question by Mr José Javier Lasarte Iribarren, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Spain is at the head of the countries of the European Union with the highest percentage of the submerged economy, which is estimated to be around 20 to 22 % of GDP, between eight and ten points above France or Germany. This means a loss of tax revenue of between EUR 40 billion and EUR 60 billion per year. There are even estimates of EUR 80 billion per year. There is much to be done and, however, over the past two years the collection in the fight against tax fraud, which reached the figure of 15,600 million euros in 2015, has decreased: a minus 5 % in 2016, a minus 0,6 % in 2017. In other words, in addition to not improving the results of the fight against tax fraud, nearly EUR 900 million has been stopped and more than EUR 40 billion has been raised from anti-fraud inspections pending collection by the Tax Agency. Mr Montoro, what is your Government doing wrong in the fight against tax fraud? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u65	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. The fight against tax fraud is measured, not estimated. It is not estimated by indirect procedures, it is measured. During 2017 the fight against tax fraud has yielded revenues of 14,792 million euros. In the last six years of President Rajoy's government the annual average collection is 13,354 million euros. Do you know how much the average of the last six years of Mr. Zapatero's government was? It was EUR 8420 million, i.e. EUR 5 billion less. That is the collection of the fight against tax fraud, a brilliant result of the fight against tax fraud when governing the Socialist Party in our country. It is that we have doubled the results of that struggle and, in addition, we have also done so in the performance of the Central Delegation of Great Contributors, which in 2017 contributed no less than 42% of the debt paid by tax agents, an average of almost 200 000 euros per taxpayer. Therefore, what we have to do is to celebrate these results, which are the result of having a tax agency of the most efficient in the world, of the most technologically advanced and, ultimately, what we have to do is to greet the professionals of the agency, who are making the principle of fairness in the payment of taxes rule. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u67	Thank you. Mr. Lasarte Iribarren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, your government is frantic about fraud and deception. It does not devote sufficient resources to the fight against this scourge, and that shows its lack of will and does not set an example. They have fostered the culture of triquiñuela and have accepted the fiscal awareness of society as a whole. They say that there is no money to raise the CPI to pensions, or to meet their commitments to the state pact against gender violence, or to raise widowhood pensions in what is required by law, or to create a vital minimum income to fight poverty, or to bet on education, active employment policies, R & D+i and the productive economy, but they have forgiven billions of the most insolidarians. Mr Montoro, the fight against tax fraud requires will, resources and exemplaryness; the will to put an end to the corrupt, to those who deceive, to those who disappoint, to those who validate. Does your Government have that will? Secondly, resources that are concrete in people, in money and in material and technological means to investigate and pursue fraud, and Spain is in line with the countries in our environment. Thirdly, exemplaryness, you are the Minister of Fiscal and Legal Amnesty. It is difficult to set an example in this struggle, but I encourage you to try. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u69	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Every day in the media there are cases and examples of what is being done effectively in Spain in the fight against corruption, tax fraud and labour fraud in a proportion that had never been experienced in Spanish society. Is that true or not? For yesterday in the Senate, in the face of that same question - by the way, the Socialist Group today repeats the same question that the Socialist Group asked in the Senate; something better could be organized, but well - I replied that you will be able to reproach the government and especially the minister who is responding, but that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u71	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ACT TO DEFEND THE PRESTIGUE OF PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES? [[File number 180/00604]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u72	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u73	Thank you, President. Minister, at the press conference following the Council of Ministers you stated that the subject of the Master's degree for the President of the Community of Madrid has nothing to do with politics but that she is a university resident. I would like you to explain a little more in the Legislative branch today what you meant by this statement you made at the Palace of the Moncloa. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm happy to do it, Your Honor. In Spain it governs the principle of university autonomy and, therefore, before a topic that affects the university, it is the university itself that is competent to clarify it. The principle of reserved information has to be activated by the university, which is what it has done, has activated it, and has also done something else that the ministry supports: it has asked the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities to also open an investigation. This research has been done by the CRUE through two professors who have also been incorporated to report. This morning at 11:30 in the morning the Rector of the University of Lérida will make public the conclusions of that report. In addition, Your Honor, in the use of that report, the university has sent it to the prosecutor. For, Your Honor, that is what I think: that it is in the university sphere, that it is in the principle of university autonomy and that we must all respect that work that the university is doing; all, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs Batet Lamaña. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u77	Thank you. Minister, it is not the university that has created a problem for politics, it is the conception of the policy of the People's Party that has created a problem for the public university, teachers and students of this country. [[Applauds]] You and I both know that you don't get the degrees at the Spanish public university; and I'm not just saying that because you've already taken care of getting enrollment and getting scholarships, but because all the university students in this country are working very hard to get your degrees through. Many parents strive every month to be able to pay just a lot of credit to their children and parents, students and entire families with every exam that young people in this country have to pass. I have worked hard to get my career out first and then I have corrected many exams, I know what the effort is, as millions of Spaniards know and, therefore, it is a priority right now, Minister, to defend the Spanish public university and its students and teachers. Do you know what the problem is? That with improper behaviors the degrees of our universities are degraded. The problem is that Mrs Cifuentes, when she has an undeserved merit, is taking it away from the university, Minister. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what we expect from the minister of universities is that it prevails and fights so that prestige, respect and trust in our university public system are not lost. The Community of Madrid, Minister, languishes, languishes when political positions of the People's Party get their hands on everything they can: hospitals, golf courses and even in the water of the Canal and now also in the institution of the public university. Leave the public university. It is in your hands, Minister, to discredit the use of power for the benefit of oneself and of particular interests. It is in your hand, Minister, to defend the Spanish public university. Hurry up. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u78	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u79	Your Honor, you have made a political intervention to attack the President of the Madrid Community, nothing more. [[Rumors]] Yes, of course you did. Listen, and you have legitimacy to do so, I don't discuss legitimacy with you, but don't tell me this is a political and not a university issue. It is a fundamentally university theme and what the ministry has done has been to leave it where it must do it, which is at the university, which is the one that has to decide. You in your intervention have mixed things that are false, Your Honor. He said that we lowered the scholarships, historical record of scholarships in the 2018 budgets. [[Rumors]] Yes, Your Honor, everyone knows. [[Applauds]] You said we've raised the plates, we're going to lower the plates in the next budgets, Your Honor. Why don't you approve the 2018 General State Budgets? If you want to help the university, if you want to help the education system, approve budgets that are favorable for people; let the university solve their problems, because it solves them well, and do not cast shadows of doubt on the university world. You said that you have corrected exams, I too, Your Honor, I too, and I know that there are 115 000 teachers and 1.5 million university students studying, who have prestige in Spanish universities. Let us not cast shadows of doubt on the Spanish universities because prestige is something that is difficult to win and is easily lost and the politicians have to be truly responsible when talking about something that matters to us all. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Your Honor, let the university carry out what it has done, which it has done correctly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u80	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES TRILINGÜE EDUCATION IN 2018-2019? [[File number 180/000600]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u81	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u82	Minister, call me eccentric, but would it be a great deal to ask that you study Spanish in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u83	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u84	I don't call you eccentric, Your Honor, I call you demagogue, because in Spain you study in Spanish. [[A Member of Parliament: Take it now!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u85	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u86	Mr Councillor d'Educació, you just left Catalonia out of Spain. [[Applauds]] Look, all the European countries except Portugal are multilingual; in none of them exists the model of exclusion that exists in Catalonia over the official language of the State, which is also the majority of Catalans. You don't believe the lies that tell you, Mr. Counselor. It is a lie that there is a social consensus on the model of linguistic exclusion in Catalonia. It's a lie that it's a model of success. It is a lie that Catalan children are better able to master the Spanish than those of other regions or communities in Spain for the simple reason that the PISA tests, the famous PISA tests, are carried out in Catalan in Catalonia. That's all a lie, don't believe it. The Constitutional Court states that Spanish cannot be excluded as a teaching language and you, Minister of Education and Councillor d'educació, should know that. The Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has established a percentage. Minister, do you know who Ana Moreno is? I should know. She is the mother of children who in Balaguer asked for the theoretical right to assist her, which is that her children could study part of the subjects in the Spanish language. He just said, "I'm tired, I can't destabilize my children anymore. And he said it after the courts gave him the reason, after suffering demonstrations in front of his house, demonstrations in school, isolation of the children. The father said, "How will I make my children understand that they will stop inviting their friends to their birthdays or make them empty in school?" Harassment worked, harassment works, and coercion works on all those who might ask and dare not ask. You said: The way we do it we are studying it, but we will certainly do it, less than two months ago, and it meant to ensure that all of Spain can be studied in Spanish. Take responsibility, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u87	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have government responsibilities are responsible, those who have no government responsibilities anywhere send tweets and make demagogic speeches. In the Parliament of Catalonia, Your Honor, how many Members do you have? [[Mr. Girauta Vidal: Thirty-six]] Thirty-six. What have you done on this subject, Your Honor? What has the People's Party done, which has four, Your Honor? You have submitted a proposal for a law on multilingualism, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] What have you done? Talk a lot; do nothing, Your Honor; do nothing. Come out here and tweet. You don't do anything. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, in Spain there is no trilingual model, there is a model of co-officiality in the autonomous communities and a possibility of a third language. I believe, and so does this Government, that this is an issue that must go to the educational pact, we have said from the beginning, the educational pact, because Article 155 cannot resolve these issues. Article 155 cannot amend a law of the Parliament of Catalonia. Know yourself at a holy time, that's the reality. What needs to be done is to go to the educational pact, that educational pact in which you are and we are, but there is no PSOE. I believe that the PSOE should continue in the educational pact, instead of giving the scarecrow it should return to the educational pact to solve issues like this that affect all of Spain. You should take note of what the Socialist Party itself has said in the Courts of Castile and Lion... [[Rumors.-Lass Cantera de Castro: He asked you]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u89	One second, Minister. I beg you, Your Honor, please use the word when you have the word. Mrs. Zaida Cantera, I beg you. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u90	Then you tell me, Your Honor. But, in any case, what I want to say is that I think it is very important that we resolve this issue in the educational pact. Mr Sánchez said a few days ago on a television programme that he was willing to return to the educational pact if the Government, if the People's Party, guaranteed 5% of GDP. We have already explained why we do not think it is a good idea to link the financing of the education pact to GDP. We have explained this, but we don't care, we care more about the educational pact, we care more about the hopes that many Spaniards have placed and the educational community in it. That is why I say in this House, in the Congress of Deputies, that the government and the group that supports it, the People's Group, are prepared to guarantee that 5% of GDP. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, return to the educational pact, we resolve these issues, which are important issues, and let's do it for real, and let's not just tweet or gesture, Your Honor. [[applause]] This is important for the educational community and I think it is important for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u91	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE WITH THE PARLIAMENTARY AMENDMENTS TO FAVOUR ENERGY LEVEL THE COMPETITIVENESS OF PRODUCTIVE UNDERTAKINGS? [[File number 180/00593]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u92	Question to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Good morning. The exclusive submission of politics to the Criminal Code contributes to the discrediting of politics and justice, to the level that the vice president of the SPD in the Bundestag already compares Spanish justice with Turkish justice. Says the minister of justice - who is gone - that this bond offends him. [[He's wearing a yellow tie on his jacket.]] I'm sorry, so many people are taking it, I'm not going to take it away. The main offense, the main indecency today is that Tamara Carrasco - of the Viladecans CoR - is at the disposal of the National Court and has slept one night in a police cell, one of so many indecencies to which the President of the Government must answer when he is worthy to submit to this House. My question today is about another aspect, albeit minor, but also about the discrediting of politics. It has been a year since these Courts adopted two concrete and precise measures to bring down the energy price for productive enterprises. The possibility of having a seasonal power tariff benefited sectors such as agriculture or tourism, and the possibility of establishing closed electricity networks made it possible to increase the competitiveness of industries, which are already in a very precarious situation as they have to compete with European prices. Does the government feel concerned with what was voted on in this House? How does the Government intend to comply with it? Minister, does the Spanish Government intend to comply with parliamentary mandates in order to promote the competitiveness of productive enterprises at an energy level? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Although it is not within my competence, I will tell you that there are no political prisoners in Spain and only those who commit crimes are prosecuted. [[Applauds]] The Government of Spain has been accused of being obsessed - obsessed - with energy prices and especially for industries. Why are we being accused of this? Because we are meeting our environmental objectives - Spain is going to be practically the only big country in the European Union that is going to meet the renewables target - but at the same time we are doing a policy to bring prices down. We have frozen or lowered for five years the fixed part of the tariff, that is, that which depends on politics, on what the Government is doing and on what we all do here in the General Courts. In addition, we have proposed an energy mix that also allows us to take advantage of resources; that is, when we have good availability, prices fall. How much? According to Eurostat, the price of electricity has fallen by 11% since the energy reform for standard industrial enterprises, which they calculate. Do you know what happened in the UK? That went up; not under an 11, went up a 16. In Germany it has risen by almost 10% and in France it has not fallen. That is the difference in policy that concerns each and every one of the industries. Now, you ask me about concrete measures. I'll tell you one thing. We should learn from the group of experts, which, among others, its group and the other groups have appointed, because it has told us that there are things that cost money, that lower system revenues and then have to be compensated. How? With tax increase or with increase of the fixed part of the receipt from all over the world. In addition, Spanish legislation obliges the Government not to introduce energy measures that generate deficits, that is, create holes, and one of the means you have counted has those characteristics, some do not pay, but by not paying you create a hole in the system. Again the tariff deficit, Mr. Capdevila? Are we going back to the tariff deficit? Because a few don't pay. And who pays what those few don't pay? The toll hole or toll rise or tax rise. Is that what you propose? He says to me: Will the government do it? Firstly, it cannot, because I cannot leave the system in deficit, nor can the Government, but it would not be fair either, because there are the rest of the industries, there are the rest of the companies, there are small and medium-sized enterprises, there are shops and domestic consumers, and they would pay what others do not pay, in this case. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u96	Mr. Capdevila and Esteve, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u97	Minister, you contain with grace and grace the anger of impotence. What you show is the inability to answer the specific questions about two concrete measures with the argument that you already know about the furniture bar: they always charge you the furniture bar, even if you have not drunk a bottle...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u99	Mr. Capdevila, yes, we respond with facts: 10% less wholesale prices this year than last year; only in March... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u100	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE SAFETY OF THE PACKAGE IS GUARANTEEED WITH RECORDING WORKS ANNOUNCED RECORDLY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000598]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u101	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group Forward, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the government consider that the safety of Yesa's reservoir is guaranteed by the future works recently announced?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the work on regrowth of the Yesa reservoir in the Foral Community of Navarre has all the guarantees of safety and is proceeding at the desired rate. In Spain we have professionals and technicians with a lot of experience in the construction of hydraulic infrastructures that meet all the safety requirements set out in Spanish legislation according to international standards. When the works are finished, many people will benefit from Yesa's regrowth: it will ensure the supply of more than 800 000 inhabitants of Zaragoza and its environment; it will consolidate more than 100 000 hectares of irrigation, but it will also allow for control of possible rivers avoiding the environmental and safety problems that they entail and it will guarantee the ecological flow of the Aragon River. We are therefore talking about a fundamental infrastructure for all the inhabitants of this area, for their development and their future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Agirretxea, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I imagined your answer, Minister, but you know that this question is not new, we are not even the only ones to ask it. The concern of the naval institutions regarding the reservoir of Yesa is justified, and is justified because there is no transparency, because there is no information, because you do not give sufficient guarantees and because we do not know the current security coefficient, and this, minister, generates doubts. They are reasonable and well-founded doubts, because since 2016 there are significant uncertainties regarding the safety of the right slope of the reservoir and because, on the part of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, not all available data have been provided that could clarify the current state of that slope. In case this were not enough, the Government of Navarre was not informed of the last works of conditioning or of the demolition of the buildings. In addition, the last works council announced the drafting of a new project for the implementation of new measures without which the filling of the recreated reservoir could not be carried out, works that, by the way, need the mandatory environmental authorization, which the Government of Navarre has to grant. All of this confirms that, contrary to the promises of stability, there are still significant uncertainties about the degree of safety on this slope. That is why this parliamentary group, as well as the Government of Navarre and the citizens of Navarre, continue to call for clarification of the current security ratio following the emergency works and for an explanation of what these additional works consist of. In this regard, we consider it essential to look forward to hearing the conclusions of the opinion of the international expert group to which the Foreign Government has entrusted its drafting. Madam Minister, we would like to know the degree of safety on the right side of the reservoir at present, the degree of safety that is expected to be achieved with the new works in tender and the degree of safety that will be achieved with the new project. We would also like to know whether there are reports that support the safety of the reservoir and, if so, the referral of them at least to this parliamentary group. This group will continue to insist and worry about this and all those issues that affect Navarra, no matter how much it bothers UPN. I'd miss more!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u108	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, this infrastructure, as I said, will benefit many people and will last for many years. The execution work continues at a good pace, reaching about 90% of the body of prey, and the forecast is that it will be fully completed by 2021. Of course, we'll do everything we can to make it happen. During its execution the professionals who work are solving every technical problem that arises, in this as in all infrastructure, and in particular on the right side. 400 control points have been installed to ensure the safety of the works, which allow us to know how this infrastructure responds at all times. 79 topographic observation points have been installed, 24 inclinometric points only to monitor the movements of the right side, with weekly readings, a more periodicity than necessary. State-of-the-art instruments are used. The information obtained is interpreted by external experts and made public with complete transparency. Every semester reports are made available to any citizen on the website of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. - Instead of saying no, please consult it and, if it takes a lot of effort, I will personally send you all this information, which, I insist, is public and is hung on the website -. In addition, we have recently been bidding on the right-hand side of the road, which is aimed at consolidating the area. All the analyses carried out confirm that there are no significant movements, therefore, the safety of the reservoir of Yesa is guaranteed and we hope that in a few years the inhabitants of this area will be able to see finished an infrastructure that will contribute to curbing the depopulation in many of the municipalities affected by this action, an infrastructure that is vital for the development, for employment, for the environment, for the protection of the people and also for their heritage against... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u109	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carmen ROCÍO CHOLO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY DOES THE BUDGETS NOT INCLUDE THE BUDGETARY COMMITMENTS OF THE STATE COVENANT IN THE MATTER OF GENERAL VIOLENCE? [[File number 180/00605]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u110	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Firstly, a question from Mrs Carmen Rocío Cuello Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u111	Thank you, President. Only three weeks ago, Mrs Montserrat, she replied that on 27 March her Government would comply with the commitments of the State Pact with the presentation of budgets. When he told us he would do it, by the way, we didn't think he would do it wrong, either. Today I ask you again to fulfil the mandate of this House and to explain to us clearly why the draft budgets do not include the budgetary commitments of the State Pact on Gender Violence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u112	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u113	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Spain is the first country in the world to bring together the whole of society in a major state pact in the fight against gender-based violence. We are a Government deeply committed to this pact and to the struggle to end the suffering of so many women, children and families in the hands of their abusers. Never before in Spain had EUR 408 million been allocated in the budgets to put an end to this scourge. The budget of the Government Delegation for Gender Violence has increased by 4 percentage points above the 20% set out in the State Pact. And thanks to the Government of Spain and these budgets we have increased the funding to the autonomous communities and municipalities by 4248 million euros, which will mean providing the autonomous communities and municipalities with the necessary resources to comply with the state pact. I am convinced that the autonomous communities and municipalities will contribute to the fulfilment of this state pact, as we have done since the Spanish Government in recent years and will do for all the victims and not leave anyone alone and abandoned. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cuello Pérez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u115	Madam Minister, we are talking about binding budgets, and those are not the 4 billion you are talking about going to communities and municipalities. The approved State Pact is directly linked to the powers of the State. I don't understand what part of this short sentence you don't understand, because if I understood it, the 200 million would be in the budgets, and they're not. The economic commitment of the pact is quite clear: an increase of at least EUR 200 million in the 2018 budgets, of which EUR 120 million would be for the autonomous communities and municipalities so that they could fulfil their competences; there had to be specific transfers - and there are no transfers - from the General Budgets of the State to both communities and municipalities intended for programmes to combat gender-based violence which, moreover, should have a conditional character; and the resources that you are talking about - which are intended for communities and municipalities - are not. Madam Minister, you are not extending the resources earmarked for the pact, but you are using the existing resources of other years. It allocates money to municipalities as an administration closer to women victims of gender-based violence so that they can, for example, keep women's information centres open. In Andalusia they are, yes, but thanks to the Board. You say that you are very convinced that the autonomous communities, entities of the third social sector and the municipalities are committed to the pact, and there you are right, I will give it to you for once. All of them will do their part. The problem is that neither you nor your Government nor your ministry will comply with the commitments of the State Pact. It is a matter of commitment and political priorities, and for you it is neither one thing nor the other. The pact is no game for respect for the work of the subcommission, for respect to this House, but above all for respect for women victims of gender-based violence. Take the pact seriously, because it is not deceiving this Member, it is not deceiving this parliamentary group; it is deceiving the women victims who are the main ones affected by the lack of these... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u116	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u117	Thank you, President. Do you know what I feel? That you, the members of the Socialist Group, are deeply hurt by the fact that it was a People's Party government that we agreed with society as a whole on a state pact. [[Applauds.-Protests]] What hurts us are the victims of gender-based violence, their children and their families. That is why we have committed ourselves to this pact and have committed ourselves budgetaryly. That is why we have allocated the largest part of Spain's history, EUR 408 million, to the fight against gender-based violence. Thanks to these budgets, the Spanish Government has increased €42 billion more in funding to the autonomous communities and municipalities for the implementation of the pact. And I will tell you more, the increase of the 80 million euros in the General Budgets of the State will allow us, in the field of prevention, for example, to allocate 7 million euros to awareness campaigns; it will allow us to allocate 40 million euros to increase the numbers of troops of the State Security Forces and Bodies that work for the victims. Therefore, be responsible and say yes to the victims, yes to this budget and approve this budget because so... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u118	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE BUDGETARY PROJECT PRESENTED BY HER GOVERNMENT PERMIT TO GUARANTEE THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS IN DEPENDENCE, WOMEN AND CHILDREN OF THIS COUNTRY, AS WELL AS THE RIGHT TO HEALTH OF ALL CITY? [[File number 180/000596]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u119	Question now by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u120	Thank you, President. Minister, do you consider that the budget proposal submitted by your Government guarantees the rights of children, women and dependent persons, as well as the right to health of all citizens of our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u122	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the 2018 State General Budgets guarantee the rights of individuals and families and, therefore, also of children, because they contribute to creating employment and because they distribute the benefits of social recovery so that they reach each and every one of the families and each and every one of the Spaniards. They are one of the major social budgets in Spain's history and allocate EUR 196 billion to social investment, people, families and children, which accounts for 56% of the total. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u124	Thank you. Madam Minister, they have put Mr Montoro, the Minister for Fish and Carrots to account. They have put the accounts to a minister who has been repudiated by this House for making an unconstitutional tax amnesty for his friends and, of course, Mr Montoro in making the accounts has left the people out. These budgets show one thing that the 15-M was already saying, and it is that this was not an economic crisis, but a real scam; a scam because they used the crisis as an excuse to apply its cuts, to plunder the public, to scam the Spaniards and the Spanish and to privatize. Now that the gross domestic product is at pre-crisis levels, it turns out that cuts in health, dependence and equality do not go away, and that is not to mention all the times that the Spanish and the decent Spanish have put their hands in their pockets. They have used the crisis as an excuse to swindle and elude the public, and the public is our way of living, it is the only way that honest people in our country have access to a dignified life; those people who cannot be paid either a private pension plan or a private health insurance. Scamping and stealing is the mark of your management. [[Applauds]] I'll give you a few examples, though there are many. Unit: since 2009 the state has cut its contribution to the unit by 33%, that is, this year 100 people a day will continue to die in our country with the help granted and without ever getting to collect it. If that's not a scam, Minister, what is it? 20 per cent cut in childcare and family care when one in three boys and girls in our country continues to live below the poverty line. Health: the only significant increase is that which goes directly to the hands of private insurers. - Scam too. State Pact against Gender Violence: Of the 200 million to which you committed, 120 do not appear anywhere and will have to put them out of their pocket the autonomous communities, which in themselves are quite suffocated. - Also a scam. So it seems, Minister, that it's going to be true what you said a few weeks ago that being a feminist for you is a label, practically a stigma. For us to be a feminist is to present budgets that put people's lives in the center and that remind us every day, as Lula would say... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u125	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see, Your Honor, that the budgets have not been read, because for this government... [[Rumors]] That's right. Because for this government people and families are a priority, protecting families is protecting our children, and the first tool, the best social policy for a country is creating employment. This is a government that creates jobs and gives everyone, with the stated objective that we are going to achieve, the 20 million people in Spain working in 2020. This will be achieved thanks to these budgets as well. He's been talking about dependency. As we have done last year, it is planned in the budgets to increase the cost of caring for dependent family members by 5%, increasing the minimum level of care by EUR 46 million. In addition, we have increased minimum and non-contributory pensions by 3% and widow's pensions by 2%. - This is supporting families. We have lowered taxes on people with lower or lower incomes to increase the effective wage that families and their children have at the end of the month. We have created a new childcare check that will allow working mothers to deduct at the IRPF up to a maximum of 1000 euros per year. This is supporting children and families. We also extend the current deduction of 1200 euros for large families by 600 euros for each child from the fourth and following years. - This is supporting families. These budgets provide EUR 346 million for family protection and the fight against child poverty. And we have introduced a great novelty: we have established that, on a voluntary basis, companies in Spain can put a cross in corporate tax to devote 0.7% of their profits to the social programmes of this country, as we have done with the IRPF. Therefore, we work for families and for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u127	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARY GONZALEZ VERACRUZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHY HAVE THE BUDGETARY CREDITS IN R & D & I NOT BEEN EXECUTED? [[File number 180/00608]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u128	He is now asking the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mrs María González Veracruz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u129	Thank you very much, President. Minister, why have the 2017 R & D+i budgets not been implemented?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u131	Thank you very much, President. As I explained a few days ago in my appearance before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the implementation of the non-financial chapter cannot be mixed with the implementation of the financial chapter, i.e. loans, and an average can be calculated. This is a mistake that never ceases to be a mistake. On the one hand, there are grants dedicated to financing, basically, research in public structures that have - let me say this - a very high level of implementation, no less than 99% in 2017, to which you allude. This high percentage shows, in particular, the high efficiency in the management of the R & D items that reached last year's negligible figure of EUR 1721 million. And, let me also add, that in the draft Budgets for 2018 this amount is increased by 91 million, up to 1812 million. On the other hand - this is a different issue, as your Lordship knows perfectly well - there are the appropriations for support for R & D, above all the appropriations for the private sector and the business sector, with an authorised maximum amount or ceiling of EUR 2799 million. In this case, it is not appropriate to speak properly of implementation, but, in fact, we should talk about absorption because it is loans intended primarily for the private sector and it is the private sector that makes the demand for these loans under market conditions. This is not, therefore, money that is granted in the budgets, which is painted in the budgets, but one of the ceilings for the authorisation of possible loans that are applied to a greater or lesser extent according to market demand. In this sense, the demand for loans from, in particular, the CDTI is growing steadily. In any case, and with this let me finish, as I announced last week we are in a position to review and review the loans it grants, in particular the CDTI, to adapt them to the current state of the markets and to the level of demand of the Spanish company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs. González Veracruz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u133	Minister, you announced at your first appearance that you would be a continuist with De Guindos' policies, and today you have just demonstrated that. You don't want to be a minister of science either, and this is bad news for science, for innovation and for our country. Lately reality is surpassing you, from master's to science; you are a great deception and your own explanation gives you away. The implementation data are not an interpretation of the Socialist Party, it is the data of your Government, of the Ministry of Finance and of the General Intervention that say that of the budget that you have painted, and that they repeat in these General Budgets of the State, as budget of research, development and innovation, have not executed 30% - 29.7% -, 1 out of 3 euros. I already know that it is much harder to execute the loans, but it is that you come from a journey in which you have already accumulated historical cuts that have drawn us back to ten years, to a decade, that have led us to a historical decline of 1.19 of GDP and to that, in addition, we add your explanations to what is a great deception. And it is that we are not talking about 4635 million euros in 2017, but about 1376 executed, as we are not talking about the 2018 General State Budgets that are presenting us to this House, because you yourself are saying - by your own argument - that the spending policy and the percentage that R & D+i was supposed to have in those General Budgets is not even so. Policy of cuts, less execution and less budgets and, in case this were little - I can't say - administrative obstacles, obstacles imposed by your Government, of the Ministry of Finance: Pre-checking, Law of contracts of the public services that are making laboratories not even allow them to spend those funds. Minister, let them tell you the whole truth because you can't even hire mass sequencing services or antibody kits. You are a government that does not believe in science and tries to deceive us; therefore, we cannot support their budgets or we will do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u134	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u135	Thank you, President. Your Honor, start by saying I don't believe in science, and the first thing I have to say is that it's not true. I believe in science, I have a personal commitment to science, and so I made it clear in my appearance... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u136	Thank you very much, your time is up, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u137	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the questions addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness on the situation of the administrative and financial blockade of public research. Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u138	Thank you, Madam President. In recent weeks, the media have received reports of the situation of the administrative and financial blockade in which public research agencies, especially the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, Ciemat and INIA, find themselves. His manifestos tell us about rules, procedures, and various control mechanisms that hinder his investigative activity and threaten his future. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u139	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u140	His Government is fully aware of the situation and I am aware that, from the Secretariat of State, they have tried their best to change this situation. The problem is that neither Mrs Vela has sufficient political strength in the Government nor science is a political priority for her Government. So, given the dimensions and urgency that the problem has acquired, the desirable thing would be for you to personally get involved in providing a solution to the administrative blockade of IPOs. Firstly, because it is your responsibility as a minister, because you have R & D & I in your portfolio and, secondly, because the more than 120,000 researchers subject to some of the control procedures, which are doing the most damage, are waiting for a political explanation of why and until when this abuse of science. It is your opportunity, Mr Escribano, to announce that R & D+i is going to be a political priority in your mandate and that the necessary reforms will be carried out in the regulations of the General Administration of the State for science to have its place in it. I will briefly list here some of the demands of the public investigation, and it is in the hands of the government to give them a solution. First of all, let us talk about budgets, although we have just given their version, because we will not tire of repeating that we are talking about consolidated cuts that have put a stop to a cycle of growth in the R & D & i system that has led to the disappearance of jobs and a decrease in the number of projects, that is, we do much less science than we did ten years ago. The draft budget for 2018 brings a slight increase, but it maintains the structure of recent years: 40% of that budget for non-financial operations and 60% for financial operations. You said that credits are not part of the budget, so I ask that the ministry stop including credits in the figures it gives as an increase in the R+D+i budget, because in the end what they are doing is cheating on us. Why is this fact relevant that most of the R & D+i budget is credits? Because the science system is not in a position to absorb them, execute them or ask them, as you want to name it. Nevertheless, the Government maintains a very high proportion of credits year after year. The result: R+D+i has the lowest rate of implementation of the main government policies. There are other causes for low budget implementation that also affect non-financial funds, staff, projects and investments, and the Government could have foreseen these implications for science. I am talking about the expenditure restrictions resulting from the closure of the 2016 financial year or from the two budgetary extensions of 2017 and 2018, but I am also talking about the increase in the administrative procedures of control and expenditure that came into force in 2014 and that have turned the management of science into a bureaucratic nightmare. Both circumstances lead to a terrible paradox, and it is that the centers have their own funds that do not come from the General Budgets of the State but from subsidies or agreements that they cannot spend. What does the Government gain by hindering scientific activity through complicated administrative processes? Let every euro that is not spent go back to the Treasury. In other words, unexecuted R+D+i funds are being used for deficit consolidation. [[The lady]] The cuts are not enough and, in addition, any delay in the execution of the expenditure, whether hiring or investment, runs in favour of the Government to meet the deficit target, even at the expense of public research. What are these rules? I'll explain it to you very briefly, Mr. Scribano. The first and most damaging, the general intervention; that is, any expenditure made by IPOs must have a prior authorization, be 50 euros or 50 million. This has not always been the case and it is urgent to return to the situation before 2014, as approved in a non-legislative proposal of our group in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Where are your Government's commitments to consider a solution to this bottleneck that was transmitted to the IPOs at a meeting that your Government had in December to address precisely the problem of prior intervention? Secondly, the signing of agreements, that is, cooperation agreements with other public and private entities. The current legislation requires the approval of all agreements by the Council of Ministers; imagine the volume of agreements and procedures needed to reach the Council of Ministers, another bottleneck. Thirdly, payment of assessed contributions to international agencies. A strict interpretation of the rule requires that each payment be approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Finance and the Council of Ministers. It equals the amount, it equals a periodic fee, the result is that our IPOs pay their fees to scientific societies two years late, Spain marks. And lastly, the demented recruitment processes, with previous intervention included, that can get to have up to twenty different steps and take up to six months to have the approval. If you want to hire someone for a one-year project, hopefully you'll have it to do the final report. Do you know what the consequences of doing science in the 21st century are with a 19th century bureaucracy? An additional consumption of resources that at a time of cuts has serious consequences for the operation; that complicates the management of projects financed with competitive calls and that have in many cases resulted in non-compliance with commitments and the return of funds with interests; that hinders relations with companies, public-private collaboration, the establishment of strategic alliances; that reduces competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign research centres that have much more agile management and, above all, the wear and tear of staff, for which all these bureaucratic procedures are in fact a contempt for their work and their scientific contribution to society. But it is also dismantling and disapproving the investments and growth of the state public science of the previous stage, preventing industry from being a tractor element in our economy. But let's turn it around too. What is the cost to the General Administration of the State of having a high number of officials carrying papers from one place to another to comply with procedures that have in fact not led to any improvement in the control of public money? Is this an efficient and rational use of the resources of the Administration? The Government itself should also assess this. The amendment of these rules is a matter of common sense, has no ideology and has no cost. Is it so hard to see what's going on with science? Why does the government refuse to seek alternatives for scientific bodies? What's the reason? Let me tell you, or at least what I mean. Finance does not want to make exceptions, it does not want to open the door to new requests, it does not address the specifics of research management or the dramatic situation of public research bodies. Do you know what this is? Immobilism. His conservatism, in the strictest sense of the term, does not allow us to advance as a country. If they are not able to find different, innovative formulas, combining the necessary mechanisms of control and efficiency of public money or the flexibility and agility that science needs, simply go away, renounce to govern this country and stop sinking what has been built with much effort: a system of public R & D+i, solvent, solid and quality, with international recognition, which today struggles for a political recognition that meets its management needs. This regulation and bureaucratic overload is common to the CSIC, the largest of our research bodies, which also has its own problems. The CSIC has more than 11,000 workers - 4000 fewer than in 2011 - and a percentage of about 43%. According to the Workers' Committees, some 1500 temporary workers would be performing structural tasks and this would amount to a fraud of the law. I should be grateful if you would provide us with information on when the Government plans to launch the consolidation process and thus support the scientific activity of the CSIC. Another important issue for CSIC is the management contract, which has been under discussion since 2009 and never arrived. This instrument would mean more flexibility and speed up the management of the 122 centres that form the CSIC and whose workers have the impression of spending the day filling out roles. So I ask you directly about the status of the management contract: Is the management contract blocked in the Ministry of Finance? If so, can you commit here today, in this House, to what will be a political priority for you to get this contract approved before the summer? The second point to which I would like to refer is not directly linked to the subject before us, but it has enormous political and scientific significance, and it is the process of appointing the Chair of the CSIC. In the autumn there was the relief of Emilio Lora Tamayo by Rosa Menéndez. This was good news because it is the first time that a woman will be at the head of the largest research agency in Spain, but also because Lora Tamayo's mandate was harmful, and it was so in her decisions of internal management, as in public positions, as in the letter written to Gas Natural dedicating the position of her scientists regarding the convenience of the gas warehouse in Doñana. The appointment of the president of the largest research agency in Spain is currently done by finger; it has no endorsement or scientific report or control by Congress. This opens the door to a management oriented well to pay the loyalty of the appointee or to have the designated person do so on political and non-scientific criteria. If we are filled with the word that science has no ideology, we should demonstrate it with a reform of the CSIC appointment system by introducing scientific criteria and an accountability to Congress. Minister, I believe that in this brief presentation it is clear that this country urgently needs a strategy to put science at the centre and support public research with more resources, but above all to design a flexible, agile and competitive management, as well as a regulation that improves the working conditions of the scientific career. I'm going to ask you two things for your answer. The first is to avoid administrative technicalities and to have a political debate. Although the root cause of the blocking situation is those gruesome administrative procedures, the substance of the matter is deeply political: how important your Government is to science and to what extent it is prepared to adapt the rules of the General Administration of the State to the needs of science. And secondly, I do not want you to tell me what the Secretariat of State has done so far to alleviate the situation of IPOs. I want you to explain to me and to the researchers working in public science what you are going to do from now on as the most responsible for the science of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez. Then, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u142	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, allow me to begin my speech on the last point you mentioned, which is that I express my conviction and my commitment to science. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to begin my words, as I did last week in my appearance in the Committee on Economic Affairs, expressing my commitment and personal interest in the science system in Spain and stating that for me R & D, research and development are fundamental to promoting the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and to consolidating this new pattern of growth in which Spain is today, an economic growth that, as we all know, is more balanced and more sustainable than we have had at any other time in our past. Having a strong science and innovation system and a developed science and innovation system is a sine qua non for our economy to keep pace with Europe's leading countries in the 21st century. And only - that is my conviction and I would also like to repeat it - by betting on research, science and technology we will be able to generate, and do so in a lasting way, the quality employment and wealth necessary to maintain our welfare system. The Government is therefore fully aware of the role that R & D is called on to play as a lever for the future of the Spanish economy. And in the same way, he is fully aware of the role he must play in achieving this objective, which is nothing other than facilitating research work. This is what we are trying to do in recent years and with positive results, as evidenced by the increase in business investment in R & D, the increase in European funds obtained by our research centres, companies and universities and, finally, the increase in the number of researchers, which only increased by four thousand people in 2016. However, we are neither complacent nor satisfied. And in this regard, we must continue to work on many fronts that allow me to mention three in particular. Firstly, we need to reduce the administrative burdens faced by researchers. Secondly, we will have to solve the problems associated with high temporality in some research centres. And finally - but of course it is not a minor issue - we have to ensure sufficient funding for the Spanish research system. Let me begin with the removal of administrative obstacles. It is true that researchers, like the rest of the actors in our economy, must enjoy an environment in which to develop their activity is as favorable and simple as possible. The need for standards and compliance must not jeopardize the competitiveness of research centres or be a difficult burden to bear. However, we will have to bear in mind that both IPOs and scientists themselves manage and manage public funds. That means that we must all be responsible both when granting funds and when controlling the use of funds. How can we reconcile this twofold objective of being rigorous without hindering or causing harm that could mean the loss of opportunities for our research centres? Let me mention three points in particular. Firstly, avoiding procedures that do not provide any value or duplicate existing controls. This is to some extent the case with prior control that applies in particular to funds raised by IPOs in national or international calls that already have their own control mechanisms. It is precisely these highly competitive centres that we need to support most in order to continue to drive Spanish science and attract financial and human resources to our country. In this regard, the State General Budgets Bill for 2018 includes a final provision amending the General Budget Act to limit prior control in certain cases. Thus, the General Intervention of the Administration of the State may propose to the Council of Ministers that permanent financial control be applied to certain expenditure files of organs and bodies, and to the autonomous bodies whose activities justify it. This will open the door for IPOs to enjoy greater agility in the recruitment of staff and services, as well as in day-to-day management; facilities already enjoyed by our largest public research body, the CSIC. Similarly, consideration is being given to the application to IPOs of a simplified justification scheme for certain items linked to aid granted, in particular by the State Research Agency, which also enjoys its own control channels. Secondly, it is necessary to continue to support and facilitate access to competitive financing for our centres. An example of how best support from administrations results is the incentive plan that since 2012 offers management training or support when processing applications. [[The Lord]] This plan has allowed companies, IPOs and especially universities to be more competitive in financing processes. The most obvious proof, Your Honor, of the success of this initiative is the results of the Spanish projects in the European Horizon 2020 programme. Last year, our companies, Spanish companies, universities and research centres led 15% of the projects under this European programme. The economic return reached 11%, well above the economic weight of Spain, and the percentage of successful Spanish applications is 14% in the programmes supported by the CDTI, 4 points more than the European average. Thirdly, the start-up of the State Research Agency also entails bureaucratic easing, since this activity will give more stability to calls and facilitate budgetary management. This institution places Spain in the club of the countries that have an independent research agency, which must now reach cruising speed in its activity. From this point on, researchers will begin to notice greater agility and bureaucratic simplification. In fact, the agency is already working on a basic procedures manual that will review and simplify the administrative procedures associated with areas such as R & D programme management, economic and budgetary management and human resources management. The knowledge and use of this manual will undoubtedly contribute to the efficiency and simplification of the processes associated with the management of calls. The second area in which we must continue to work, Your Honor, is to provide our R & D system with the best possible human resources conditions. The State General Budgets Bill for 2018 includes a temporary employment stabilization rate of up to 90% of positions that, having been budgeted, have been temporarily and uninterruptedly occupied over the past three years. This measure will affect more than 2000 jobs of researchers in the Spanish system. On the other hand, the replacement rate, which even in the worst years of the crisis remained positive, has exceeded 100 percent since 2015. As soon as we have had the opportunity, the number of places has been expanded. Only in 2016, according to INE data, the staff of Spain's science, technology and innovation system grew in more than 5000 people, of whom about 4000 were researchers, and we continue to work in this line. For example, the 2017 public employment offer included 335 new research positions for IPOs and 293 internal promotion positions. This will be the fourth consecutive annual increase in the Spanish scientific staff. There are also plans for new staff recruitment in management areas, which will undoubtedly help to alleviate delays in the administrative processing of files in some of the centres to which his lordship referred. In any case, there are still areas for improvement such as, for example, non-fixed indefinite contractors. In this regard, we are working on the creation of a new form of indefinite recruitment, linked to external financing, for researchers from foundations and public sector consortia. We have also advanced the negotiation of the new statute for training research staff, whose text could be closed even at the end of the same month, when it would begin its processing. The proposed budgets also provide for the possibility for public research agencies to carry out increases in the salaries of research staff based on the evaluation of their performance. This means that they will be able to homogenize the salaries of all research and civil servants on the scientific scales, which will stimulate and reward, in our opinion, excellence, quality and continuous improvement in professional activities. Finally, and certainly not least, the third front on which we must continue to focus is that of financing. Achieve 2% investment in R & D+i by 2020, primarily by promoting business contribution, so that the balance between public and private investment is achieved, as your honor knows well. The Government is moving forward and working towards this goal. In fact, the R & D State Secretariat has dedicated more than €1800 million in the 2018 draft budgets, benefiting from an increase of almost €92 million in the non-financial expenditure chapter. This is, Your Honor, the highest figure in the last seven years. With these funds we will be able to ensure that the calls of the state plan are carried out in the best possible conditions, as well as include new calls, and in particular so-called proofs of concept, which are so successful in other leading countries, especially in Europe, in the field of science. I will not go much further on this issue, but I would like to insist that it is often as important as how much money is spent as the efficiency of the money it commits itself to. I return so, Your Honor, to the point where I had the opportunity to begin. The Government is committed to R & D, is committed to the science system in Spain; is committed because it believes in the potential of the science system in Spain and is committed because no economy of the size and current success of the Spanish economy can continue to grow sustainably in the 21st century without a powerful system of research and innovation. That is why we must ensure that the Spanish science system has the best professionals, in the best conditions and with the best possible funding. But we also need to be aware that the system has to be efficient, adapt to real needs and have the system of proper controls to ensure that public money - because it is public money - is carried out in the best possible conditions of control. Achieving this balance is not simple, but we are working and succeeding in this area. In any case, I also hope that, in view of your concern, you will support, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budgets, as they include key solutions in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mrs Martínez Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u144	Thank you, Minister. He says his government is committed to science. Well, less bad, because if I didn't get to be... Look at the paradox of the situation, he tells me that his Government has a political commitment to science and we are discussing administrative rights issues at the Congressional Plenary. And that is why the emergency situation of scientific policy in Spain is reduced to a set of rules that do not allow scientific policy to be pursued. So, let's really hope that we can get through this stage as soon as possible to really start talking about science policy. I've heard nice words, common places, but I honestly don't believe it, because if we go to economic data, if we go to sector data, we see that we are very, very far away from science and research having the weight you want to give in our productive model. Moreover, none of its decisions as a government, not even the General Budgets of the State, put us in the direction of that model change that we all talk about but which we do not reach. It has nothing more to do with the weight, for example, of the tourism sector, the type of tourism, the precariousness or which sectors are currently generating employment and what type of employment. So get down to reality. The medals are set for increasing business investment and increasing European funds. That is not the Government's merit, that is the merit of the quality of our science system, which we have inherited when science was in this country on the political agenda, and all these achievements that our science system achieves depend on the will of the people who are doing science. He said that the rules should not be an impediment and was concerned about the control and efficiency of public funds. Okay, but you come from a party, from the Gürtel party, from the Punic party, from the envelope party in B. Let's apply it to all the organizations and do not dare to sow the doubt about the public system researchers, in which there has not been a single case of embezzlement of funds. [[Applauds]] He's done it, he's told me everything he's doing. What you've told me, everything that's been done, I've been listening to the Secretary of State for two years. My question is, when is that going to happen? It is that neither the OPI, nor the INIA, nor the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, nor the Ciemat can wait any longer. The situation is emergency, and there is also widespread fatigue among our researchers. People are moving, they're starting to get on the political agenda. They have eyes on their faces to see the situation and understand that it's no longer worth saying: we're going to do it, we're going to do it, but they have to do it now, they have to act. I am glad that among your concerns are the conditions of the personnel who do science. I agree that stabilization is a step forward, but it is also a commitment that this Government has made and that it has for many years failed to meet the elimination of the replacement rate. In other words, it is not an investment either, it is something that should have been done in recent years and that has not been done for the policy of cuts. Let us take advantage of and reform the scientific career, so that it is consolidated, attractive and not in the midst of funding. For example, let's also talk about predoctoral research, their exploitation situation, the associate professors... Beyond small patches, we need a comprehensive human resources policy that takes care of our people, because it is our main capital within the science system. When he talks about financing, about the system, he insists that he hopes that there will be more business investment, and indeed it is an outstanding subject of the Spanish R & D system, a greater private investment. But you know it's public investment that makes a tractor for private investment. And if there has been no greater business investment in recent years, if there has not been a take-off of the technological and scientific sector in the private sector, it is precisely because his Government's scientific policies have really been a failure. I recognize that he has just begun his mandate, that he has received an inheritance, if any, poisoned by his predecessor, but he has two options: to continue hiding in Montoro's long shadow in order to do nothing and to let the suffocated and buried IPOs die in empty bureaucracies that do not contribute anything to the research or the efficiency of public funds, or to face the problem, to assume the political leadership that belongs to him as a minister, to meet personally with the IPOs, to listen to his needs, to value his proposals and to fight them in the Council of Ministers since tomorrow. Because, Minister, public science in this country cannot wait another minute. Take the necessary steps so that you can start devoting resources, time and energy to what you best know how to do, which is science, and not bureaucratic efforts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u146	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, start your speech by talking about nice words. If this is a compliment on the polite tone that I have wanted to maintain and that I certainly intend to continue to maintain in all my relations with Members, I thank you, but if anything I did not want to say, these are nice words. What I wanted to convey are concrete facts, are concrete policies and in my intervention I did not want to refer to common places but to very precise data, and some of them extremely complex, which are provided for in the draft General Budgets of the State which was presented to the Chambers last week. He also mentioned - and I would like to refer to the previous question - continuity. In fact, what I wanted to pass on to the honourable Members is a little more complex than that, it is continuity but not continuity. And I am surprised that they refer to this point when I said in my first speech that I am prepared and that I want to make a review in particular of all the financing instruments in order to better adapt them to the current market situation, to the financing situation of the Spanish company and to see in which areas we have to work. Therefore, reformism, courage to make changes in what is necessary and, of course, commitment and personal commitment very close to the Spanish system of science. And commitment on specific issues because, in addition to the diagnosis of the words we have been able to exchange, I would like to raise very specific issues for the Spanish system of research and science. Firstly, to boost business R & D. The problem in Spain is not so much in the public sector, in public expenditure, which sometimes occupies the bulk of our discussions, but in the absorption of resources and in the use of resources by the private sector. In part, this is due to the small size of our companies and the lack in Spain of a group, as is the case in other European countries, which is the largest of medium-sized companies, which actually make the most important effort. We must therefore encourage, study and review whether financing instruments are needed to ensure that business R & D & I is placed in the environment of the European average. At the moment, as you know, about half of our R & D effort is in the private sector, compared to two thirds of the European average. Here we have an important element in which I tell you that I want to work on a priority basis. This is the great point where Spain has to change, it has to offer a new dynamic. And there are several concrete lines of work in which the ministry wants to work. Firstly, the launch of the Cervera Network and the strengthening of the Spanish model of technology centres. Secondly, the launch of new types of calls, and in particular so-called concept tests, to make it easier for the results of the innovation process to reach the business world and society as a whole as soon as possible. And, thirdly, the impetus and - yes, Your Honor - the revision of the system of aid to companies which the Ministry of Economy has as a whole. Capital instruments, first of all. FUND-ICO Global, which is one of the major reforms of this government and which has transformed the financing of the Spanish business world and the coordinated management of investments in innovative companies, will continue and deliver concrete results in the coming weeks. We will focus in particular on innovative companies in the early stages of their lives, from so-called seed capital to so-called venture capital. We want to accompany and share risks in new companies and new business vocations that bet on innovation. Secondly, better coordination between the CDTI and ICO and the ICO's instrument package and, as ICO said, the revision of its instruments. The liquidity situation, the financing situation of the Spanish company is no longer the one that was three or four years ago, you know it well, this is precisely one of the great successes of the government of Mariano Rajoy, and this also requires us to make a very important effort to adapt our financial instruments to these new financing conditions of the Spanish company. A coordinated strategy to digitise the industry, which is undoubtedly key to Spanish growth and export, with a view to Spain participating in the major European initiatives that are being proposed in the field of digitisation of the industry. Since my meeting about ten days ago with the French Minister of Economy and Industry, French colleague Bruno Le Maire, Spain is going to be part of the Franco-German Industry 4.0 project and we are going to participate in what is currently the spearhead of the digitisation projects of European industry. The launch of new CDTI calls will also be an important part. And finally, the best use of European initiatives by the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund, such as the so-called InnovFin programme, of which Spain has to be at the forefront in the coming years. On the other hand, Spain has to be placed, and this is also a very specific issue that the ministry is going to promote, among the references of innovation in all European programmes. We need to earn more iconic infrastructure. In this regard, we will support candidatures such as that of La Palma for the world's largest optical telescope or that of Granada as the headquarters of the so-called neutron source. We will continue this leadership role - I want to emphasise, leadership - European in the Horizon 2020 programme and we will promote initiatives such as the First Programme - Partnership in Innovation - of which Spain has to be the protagonist, between the European countries and the countries of the Mediterranean area, which are strategically key to the future. For these concrete developments everyone counts and no one is left, and I am not referring only to the agents of the system, which of course I will be very pleased to meet with them, although you said that I had to leave the post despite being my first intervention. I will not leave the post and I will gladly meet soon with all the agents of the system, starting with those of the ministry itself. The R+D+i model has to be a matter of state that is defined in a consensual way, that has the highest possible level of stability and that lasts in the future following the positive dynamics that we are implementing in recent years and particularly at this new stage. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I also appeal to your responsibility and your cooperation both in the debate that will continue from now on and above all for the approval of general State budgets such as those proposed for this year 2018, which clearly demonstrate, and do so with concrete facts, that R & D+i is a political priority for this government and that we hope to count on the cooperation and approval of the House, and also of course to reach as broad a parliamentary agreement as possible in support of the Spanish science system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY ON MEASURES TO RECOGNIZE A NATIONAL QUALITY HEALTH SYSTEM, GUIDED TO IMPROVING HEALTH AND REDUCING UNEQUALITY. [[File number 172/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u148	We turn to the next item on the agenda, an urgent appeal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on measures to recover a quality national health system aimed at improving health and reducing inequalities. For your defence, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u149	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister of Health. You certainly know that on April 7 we commemorated World Health Day with the slogan 'Health for all with universal health coverage'. WHO, the World Health Organization, rightly calls for equal access to quality health services for all without exception without having to go through economic hardship. What a paradox this April call this year coincides with April six years ago, precisely when you approved dismantling the universal health coverage we had achieved in Spain! You know that investment in health is an essential element, along with education and other universal human rights, in building more egalitarian societies, in promoting human development, in accessing employment, and is also an engine of the economy, innovation and science. Spain had been an example for the rest of the nations with universal health coverage. We achieved this with the General Health Law of 25 April - another month of April - of 1986, when a socialist minister, Ernest Lluch, drew all kinds of obstacles, also the ideological opposition of the People's Alliance, to achieve this goal of universal health. How we miss Ernest Lluch, killed by ETA for building bridges of dialogue in Euskadi, precisely today that there is so much need for dialogue, also in his beloved Catalonia! [[Applauds]] It was a law, I remind you, Mrs Montserrat, that in article 1 it set out the right to health care for all Spaniards and also for foreigners residing in our country. Later the Cohesion and Quality Act of 2003 was adopted unanimously by all the parliamentary forces, a law that strengthened public and universal insurance and that in its article 3, in its original version, which you amended, fixed as holders of the right to health care all Spanish and foreigners registered in Spain. A law establishing a common portfolio of public financing services and a Health Cohesion Fund paid with State resources precisely to give effect to this equality in access to health services. And the third major pillar of this legal framework of which we have been endowed was the General Law on Public Health of 2011, a law designed to guide public policies, and not only health policies, towards improving the health of Spaniards and reducing inequalities and which sought to act on the causes of health; that is, on poverty, on unemployment, on food or on the healthy environment and not only on the consequences, on disease or dependence. It was a law that ended the universalization of the National Health System to all groups. Well, it took you four months since President Mariano Rajoy formed his first government to dismantle this health-rights building that we had created together until then. It was your health counter-reform, Mrs. Montserrat. Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 is the biggest regression in health rights we have known since democracy in Spain. You have excluded more than 800,000 people living in Spain from health coverage. And I don't say it, organizations like Amnesty International say it - there are representatives here from some of these organizations -, we say it seventy scientific and professional associations that, together with all the political parties - with the exception of you and the Citizens Group - we signed in September last year the pact for universal health in Spain. A pact in which Oxfam, in which were Doctors of the World, Amnesty International, the Spanish Society of Public Health, the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine, the Spanish Society of General Physicians and Family... Anyway, that's how I could name up to seventy. But you have also excluded Spaniards from health care who, when they are over 26 years old, exceed a certain level of income. They have made health care dependent on the status of being a worker, being a pensioner or being a spouse or dependent on a worker or a pensioner. In short, you have returned Spanish health to the time of Girón de Velasco, when health care depended on your contribution or your contribution. In addition to national complaints, there are many international complaints, and last month it was the UN Committee on Economic and Social Rights that talked about the regressive effect on the right to health that the Decree-Law had. Shortly before, in February, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance of the Council of Europe again said the same thing: Assess, Mrs Montserrat, the Government of Spain, health reforms and ensure the right to health care for all. It is an exclusion that is ideological in nature only because it has no health or economic justification, quite the contrary. The economic and health justification is to care for all people at first, when the disease can be prevented, not when they end up at the emergency doors of hospitals. You with the decree-law also fragmented the portfolio of services of the National Health System, until then unique and common, establishing up to four modalities. You have established a basic portfolio, a supplement, an accessory and a supplement. And less evil that you exhausted the dictionary of synonyms because the only interest you had with that fragmentation of the portfolio was to introduce the health cocoon, introduce that the Spaniards have to pay to receive health care. They set up new co-payments for pensioners - just a year before freezing their pension with their 2013 pension reform - they wanted serious patients to pay for hospital medicines, chronic patients to pay for health care, patients to pay for services that you consider accessories and that we imagine are things like physical therapy, rehabilitation, psychotherapy or other measures that are necessary for health care and in the disease. And that window to the sanitary cocoons, Mrs. Montserrat, is there, in effect in the royal decree-law as long as you don't repeal it. You've privatized the sanity. The National Health System has lost €19.5 billion in the first five years of the People's Party's Government, of which the Spanish and Spanish have had to put 7,500 of their pocket to care for health and disease. That's what the state's health accounts system says. For the first time in Spain, private health spending has exceeded the 30% barrier, the country that has the most private spending in the 18 first countries of the European Union. Can you tell us today that you are satisfied with these figures? Does it seem normal that last year the National Health System spent 1 billion less on medicines than in 2011 and that the Spanish spent 1 600 million more on medicines than in 2011? You do not save; you take money out of the pocket of the Spaniards to save the fraudsters and the rich by lowering their taxes. [[Applauds]] That lower funding, Mrs Montserrat, is what has meant that today we have 30,000 fewer professionals working in health centres and hospitals, that waiting lists have for the first time exceeded the barrier of 600 000 patients, that they wait 30 days longer than they expected in the year 2011 on average, and, what I think is even more serious, that patients who wait more than six months for surgery have grown by 40%. That is why it is not surprising that the Spanish concern for health has increased above the concern for the Catalan crisis, according to the latest CIS barometer. And in the meantime, Mrs Montserrat, we do not know what you think of health financing, because you are permanently avoiding the claim of socialist health advisers and other self-governments to know what opinion you have on the financing that Spanish health needs. You postpone sine die that interterritorial council we should have had before the end of last year. Minister, how are you going to defend the financial needs of Spanish health? In your opinion, how much is needed to ensure that the health care received by the Spaniards is equal and of quality? What do you think of the report of the Committee of Experts on Autonomous Financing, which said that if fiscal resources do not arrive, autonomy will establish co-sponsorships on the letter? Finally, I will tell you that the National Health System has played an essential role in improving people's health and equal opportunities. It was part of that social and democratic contract that we made at the beginning of the transition. For this National Health System that we have and for other measures that accompanied this transition the life expectancy in our country has grown seven years and the difference between autonomous communities is only 2.7 years. However, the difference in life expectancy at birth between people born and living in a richer or poorer neighbourhood in Barcelona or Madrid is between seven and eleven years, four times greater. Inequalities in health in Spain are due to social differences. It is true that the postal code influences life expectancy and health outcomes, but the last two digits influence more, telling us in which neighborhood and social class is a person, than in which autonomous community is a person. These differences have only grown as a result of the crisis and its policies. This is said in the report of the Spanish Society of Public Health of 2014, the report of the Ombudsman of last year or the Economic and Social Council itself, and it is also said by international organizations. The OECD, in a study on the crisis and its impact on the health of Europeans, warned of the difficulties in accessing health services for the most fragile people and the rapid increase in waiting lists in Spain. We have asked the Government to analyse these effects of the crisis on health. We did it in March last year. You should have submitted a report to this House before the end of 2017 and we are still waiting for it. Minister, when are you going to deliver it? Or are you not concerned about the impact of the crisis on Spanish health and the loss of health rights? Can you assure us with figures and not with acts of faith, as you often claim, that Spanish people today enjoy the same health as they did seven years ago? Mrs Montserrat, you and your Government have an important responsibility for the health of this country, it is not only the autonomy that is responsible for health care. You mark economic, fiscal or labour policies, which influence as much or more than health care and determine who has access to health care in this country and who does not, how much they have to pay for public health care, and what is the autonomous funding they have in order to be able to finance these health services. I ask you today what you will do to recover the universality of health care, to reduce inequalities in health, to make patients and pensioners not have to choose between medicines and food, to attach the necessary funding to the autonomous communities to strengthen the National Health System and, ultimately, to make a National Health System more accessible, more universal, more public and not more privatized, as you claim. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u150	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u151	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernández, every day I see you, the Socialist Party of Spain, in black and white; you do not stop messing with our country and, frankly, I think that over the past forty years we have made a lot of progress, we have made it together and we have always achieved it together. I will tell you more, of course we have much to go on, but the road is only together, from dialogue and listening. I tell you this because I have seen in your inquiry that you have not even mentioned the professions, you should not worry. Today, at noon, I will hold the first sectoral conference with the medical profession in Spain. In it are represented the professional colleges, the deans of medical faculties, medical students, scientific societies and the medical union. But none of the socialist councillors, in bloc, for no reason, comes to the sectoral conference with the medical profession, to listen to it. You have referred to the words, the bridges of dialogue of Ernest Lluch. I will use the same words as Ernest Lluch, a great minister, a great Catalan and a great Spanish. If you have actually made the plea to the bridges of dialogue, today all socialist advisors would have to come to listen to the medical profession, because you are doing what you are not doing when you do not come is boycotting and never joining the medical profession, a vital profession in the National Health System. [[applause]] If we have this great National Health System it is also thanks to the medical profession, and you turn your back on them. It will be you who will have to explain to all Spaniards and the entire medical profession why today you do not attend the first sectoral conference with the medical profession, a conference agreed unanimously at the Interterritorial Council last July. By unanimity of all the health advisers of Spain, of all the autonomous communities. Therefore, they will have to explain to us a lot. But since you see Spain in black and white, I do want to highlight this great country and this great National Health System, one of the best in the world both for the health results it offers and for the efficiency in the use of existing and available resources. And I'm not just saying it myself, but all the Spaniards say it in the health barometer that the Ministry of Health does every year by surveying 15,000 patients in Spain. These patients say that we have a great National Health System and that the best of it are above all the professionals, to whom you turn your back today. They also say it outside our borders. All international organizations say that our National Health System is the most efficient in the world. You know why? Because Spain is the first country in Europe in life expectancy and the second in the world after Japan. This is not by chance, it is by many factors, but one of the great factors is precisely the National Health System. There are some countries in the world, economically developed countries, that are lowering life expectancy because they do have barriers to entry into their national health systems. Therefore, one of the great achievements of Spain's National Health System has been to become the second country in the world in life expectancy. We have been world leaders for twenty-six years in organ donation and transplantation, it is not by chance, we have not done it alone. We are also the international reference in the authorisation of clinical trials related to advanced therapies. Our professionals are required in all countries for their training and training, professionals they do not listen to. They point us out as an example in the world in the treatment of diseases such as Hepatitis C; there are 102,000 Spanish patients treated with innovative direct action antivirals on 28 February. We have one of the largest and highest quality portfolios of services and services in Europe. Our research, development and biomedical innovation is found by our researchers, our facilities and our production among the most important and in recent years we have incorporated 240 therapeutic innovations; I must say that we have incorporated 20 million euros for those affected by Talidomide into the General Budgets of the State, and it has been a government of the People's Party. We have recently incorporated into the basic portfolio a very important medicine for those affected by lateral Amiotrophy, which is 500 affected in Spain, and it has been a People's Party government that has introduced into the basic portfolio - together with the autonomous communities always - the medicines necessary to continue moving forward with our patients. Electronic health is implemented and is interoperable by 80% and 90% respectively when you left it at 50%. These are examples, among many others, of the efforts made by citizens, by professionals, by patients, by the Government of Spain and by the autonomous communities, i.e. by all those involved in the National Health System. For these reasons, among many others, we must all be proud of the health system we have in Spain, and we must all unite and foster synergies to preserve, improve and make possible a complete, satisfactory and sustainable response to the dynamic care needs of society. The Government has been working since 2012 to achieve this goal with measures such as framework agreements, because we are a government that we are in the ongoing dialogue, achieving a framework agreement signed with patients this past October 2017. The first framework agreement we made with patients was made by a People's Party government last October 2017. It was a People's Party government that made the framework agreements with the health professions in the past legislature. And I repeat, the first time we have a medical conference and you don't come. It has also been a People's Party government that, in order to improve our therapeutic innovations, has reached agreements with the pharmaceutical industry. Other actions: we are implementing the pilot plan for the coordination of health care in Ceuta and Melilla, the personalized and precision medicine plan, to which I committed myself in the Courts and which we will have defined together with the autonomous communities in the coming months and we are also working for a renewed plan of technological equipment. We are finalizing the transparency portal of the National Health System, therefore, a health in data or, for example, with this draft State General Budgets we ensure and respond to those affected by Talidomide and we make possible a salary increase for public officials, which will be a benefit to all health professionals and all officials of the National Health System. The Spanish Government, with the agreement of the trade unions, has also announced the largest OPE in history for health professionals. All these are actions that we are always agreeing in the Interterritorial Council with the Autonomous Communities, such as the thirteen measures to address the deficit of doctors agreed at the plenary session. Within the framework of competition, since you have told me about the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, the Government of Spain has decided to promote this Royal Decree with the aim of consolidating and developing quality, cohesion, security in access to health care, as well as the sustainability of the health system in Spain. As you know, access to health care in our country was not universal before 2012, with a socialist Government. There were even Spanish citizens excluded from the right to assistance, I mean, that people know. The unemployed who had exhausted the benefit were not entitled to public health in Spain. You know why not? They lost their right under Royal Decree-Law 1/1992 of 3 April to urgent measures on employment promotion and unemployment protection, approved by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nor did the Spaniards who were lawyers, architects and many other liberal professions have access; up to 200,000 Spaniards were out of the system, as was recognized during the parliamentary process of the Public Health Act of 2011, which you passed in your legislature. In 2009, the People's Parliamentary Group registered a non-legislative proposal in the Congress of Deputies calling for the adoption of appropriate measures to ensure that each and every Spanish citizen, by being so, has free and equal access to health care in our public health system. In line with this parliamentary initiative, the People's Parliamentary Group registered an amendment to the Socialist Party's Public Health Act 2011, and this amendment introduced the sixth additional provision in the Public Health Act. In line with this Law on Public Health of the Socialist Party and also with the additional sixth provision of the People's Group, which called for all Spaniards to have health care, when the People's Party came to rule in 2011 we made Royal Decree 16/2012, making health care coverage effective for all Spaniards without any exclusion. We also put an end to the irregularities in access to the health card by health tourism which, according to the Court of Auditors, amounted to a cost of EUR 1 billion for the National Health System in 2009 and which led the system itself to an infringement procedure - I would like to remind you - by the European Commission. Socialist government. Therefore, the bases were established to protect the public health of citizens, including foreigners in an irregular administrative situation, as agreed in the 2011 law, thus ensuring the health of children under 18 years of age, women during pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum, emergency situations due to serious illness or accident, prevention and control of infectious diseases and of Community interest, as well as applicants for international protection and victims of trafficking in human beings. In spite of what, above all, you, who are preoccupied with asserting otherwise, the Royal Decree-Law of 2012 has not prevented all those who need assistance, including those who are in an irregular administrative situation, from accessing it. We can say that the National Health System today caters to more people than at any other time in its history and offers the widest and most quality portfolio of services. Moreover, in 2014, during the meeting of European Union health ministers in Athens, the then Commissioner of Health, Tonio Borg, highlighted the real decree-law, confirming its adaptation to European legislation, as well as the extent of the coverage offered to people in an irregular situation. To this should be added that the Constitutional Court finds converging the royal decree-law with that established in international treaties signed by Spain, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Social Charter. Therefore, the Government of the People's Party has guaranteed health care to all Spaniards, as I explained to you, through the Royal Decree of 2012. You were talking to me about copayos and it was this People's Party government, through this royal decree, that made a copayo in pharmacy based on income and not on age. You always had a co-op in pharmacy on the basis of age and not on the basis of income, but we consider that the income is much more equitable and therefore groups as disadvantaged as the long-term unemployed without benefits stopped co-opting 40% of the price of medicines when with you they paid 40% of the same. I would end by telling you, since you told me that I have the interterritorial council sine die, which is not true. This minister has appeared nine times in the commissions of the Courts in relation to my competence, this minister has convened two interterritorial councils committing myself with the councillors here to that before the end of April I will convene a new interterritorial council, although, prior to this appeal, I would convene the two sectoral conferences with nursing and with doctors; with nursing the socialist councillors did not come and today neither with the doctors. Of course, I will continue to be at the side of the health professions, nurses and doctors and, after these two sectoral conferences with nurses and doctors, I will convene the interterritorial council, as I agreed with the counselors, just as they stayed with the entire interterritorial council, agreeing to hold these two sectoral conferences with nurses and doctors in order to continue working together in the improvement and preservation of this National Health System. Therefore, Your Honor, you will always find this Government in dialogue, listening and working together for this National Health System. Never forget that there are many health skills transferred to the autonomous communities and it has been the Government of Spain that, thanks to being able to get this country out of the crisis, has increased the autonomous communities' autonomous funding to devote it to what is really most needed, which is health. And in these budgets there are €42 billion more to the autonomous communities. And in the 2017 financial year there were 5.5 billion euros more funding for the autonomous communities to dedicate it to the important, to health. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mr Fernández Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u153	Mrs Montserrat, you come up here today angry because the eight socialist advisors and other health advisers of other political parties in the autonomies do not attend the sectoral medical conference today. And no wonder you're angry because that's the demonstration of the failure of your dialogue. [[Applauds]] You hide your own failures in that ongoing call for dialogue. Do you know how many times you had to have convened the interterritorial council last year? Four. Do you know how many you've summoned him? Two. We have been calling for an urgent interterritorial council to resolve or agree on health financing, because without health funding you are cheating. They cheat when they say they agree to an OPE of 100 000 new public workers or that they are going to raise wages, who will have to pay autonomy. That's cheating on autonomy and that's why they're mad at you. And also because you're trying to use autonomic counseling as a parapet of your failures. Those conferences that you have invented in the pacts that you made with the professions in 2013 and that Mariano Rajoy signed have not been met in most of the objectives that you had planned. I could give you a detail here of the numerous breaches of decrees, of truncality, of continuous professional development, etc., which were pending and which you have not implemented. Conferences must come with their duties fulfilled. Counselors cannot be used to hide their own failures. You always talk about the achievements and wonders of the National Health System, but I am not asking you about what we have built together since 1986. I am asking you about your management, about the management of your year and a half and about the management of the People's Party government since 2012. He also talks about things and distorts reality, because he says they have improved health care in Ceuta and Melilla. Do you know how much Ceuta and Melilla's budget has gone up in healthcare this year? 0.9 per cent. The two autonomous cities with the most health needs, when in the rest of the autonomous cities the budgets for this year have risen by about 5%. Do you think that is to treat with dignity and equality the only autonomous cities on which you have health responsibility? I think, frankly, I don't. He says that you have universalized health care. But then why do the rules and laws of autonomy apply to the Constitutional Court when they intend to fix precisely that, the universal ownership of the right to health care? Why do the laws of Extremadura, Valencia, the Basque Country, Navarre apply systematically? Why have they forced the Constitutional Court to say in one of its rulings - I read it -: The right to health and the right to physical integrity of individuals as well as the desirability of avoiding risks to the health of society as a whole, have a unique importance in the constitutional framework that can never be distorted by the mere consideration of possible economic savings that could never be realized? You hide in what was health tourism to make an ideological reform, which is the exclusion of hundreds of thousands of people. The Constitutional Court has given them the reason when it has laid down autonomous laws is that jurisdiction is in the hands of the Government of the State. The responsibility is therefore yours, and the Constitutional Court's view makes this very clear. On health financing, you put on medals that are not yours. He says that €42 billion has been raised in financing for self-government. It is the mere application of the 2009 autonomous financing law of the Socialist Party, those 4200 million euros that Mr Montoro in the first week of January told the autonomies that they were retained until the budgets were approved, because you want to have the autonomies as hostages of the approval of their budgets. That's the reality. It is also false when they say that they healed the 16 billion debt that Spanish health had. You guys just made a debt swap. A commercial debt to suppliers, which indeed existed, turned it into a financial debt and was endorsed by the autonomous communities, which are the ones who have to bear the cost of that debt and the interests they have to pay for it. Therefore, you have done nothing for Spanish health, but to impoverish and privatize it. I will give you another example of what the People's Party does when it manages and governs health, is what you have done in Valencia and Madrid, privatizing the health of hundreds of thousands of people. And a courageous decision by the Government of the Valencian Generalitat of Mr Ximo Puig precisely returned dignity and health care and responsibility to the public hands, which was what had to be done from the beginning, avoiding, Mrs Monserrat, all those shadows of conflict of interest and corruption that existed over these concessions. [[applause]] Because, if not, it does not explain that a concession has to be rescued two years after it has been granted in order to improve the conditions for the concessionaire; because it does not explain that in the Madrid concessions competitions only one company was presented for each of the lots, nor is it explained the changes made at the last minute and which ultimately led to the annulment of those competitions by the courts. The Spaniards are very clear that for the Socialist Party health is a right, and for you health, Mrs Montserrat, is a business. I will conclude by re-emphasizing that dialogue that you always mention. I have to tell her that when you and I met, I believed her. I thought that there was a change of attitude in the People's Party and that dialogue between the People's Party and the Socialist Party would be possible, as has been the case on other occasions to strengthen health. A year and a half later, I realized that this call for dialogue is false because we are still waiting for you to put in place some of the measures that you announced at your first appearance when you came to the Health Committee. Then I told him to repeal the Royal Decree-Law and to increase and reach an agreement on autonomous financing, to establish a sufficient cohesion fund, like the one that existed before you ruled, to make that equality effective in the right to health. If we reached those agreements and you wanted to correct the course, we would find a space for dialogue. In the meantime, Mrs Montserrat, I have to tell you that I do not believe in the call for dialogue that you make. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u155	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to answer what you told me. In the Government of Spain we always respect the separation of powers and the model of the autonomous state and autonomous competences. We therefore abide by the rulings issued by the courts, whether or not they are favourable, and the rulings issued by the Constitutional Court are no exception to this reality. Last February we had the last ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Government's appeal against the Navarra Outlaw. We also appeal to the Constitutional Court under the law of Extremadura, the Basque Country and the Valencian Community. To appeal to the Constitutional Court is not a negative thing; rather, to the contrary. For me it is a good example of democratic health, a sign that the instruments we have equipped ourselves to enforce the law and to guarantee above all the distribution, in this competitive case, exist and function. Over forty years, both the autonomous communities and the governments of Spain, governed by different political parties, have resorted to the Constitutional Court to ensure the distribution of powers. I therefore believe that we do not have to go beyond what it really is, which is a matter of competence, in which the Constitutional Court has given us the reason in this case to the Government of Spain. You tell me we cheat, but I think it's you who actually cheat. You have to remember that you left EUR 16 billion of debt in the National Health System during your government, and do you know what were the delays in payments to providers of the National Health System, such as pharmacy or technology? You paid the bills five hundred days, five hundred, which is almost two years late; with the People's Party government we managed to pay the bills within ninety days. This also helps economic growth. I find it strange to hear it, because the current model of autonomous financing, which we have, you approved, was a model proposed by you. All day long you are criticizing the funding model that you yourselves approved; precisely, the only party that said no to that funding model was the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We were the only ones, but now everyone complains about that funding model. A little bit of memory, a little bit of responsibility for what you approved. From this funding model, the autonomous communities have to be financed to maintain the welfare state, including health. It has therefore been the Government of Spain, President Rajoy, at the very beginning of this legislature that proposes a Conference of Presidents where twelve agreements are reached. The first agreement with all the autonomous presidents is to work for a new model of autonomous financing by placing the important focus, both President Rajoy and the seventeen autonomous presidents, on health. Therefore, we, the People's Party, the People's Party Government, are working for this future funding model and I sincerely hope, because this is also an instrument of dialogue, which the Socialist Party, through its autonomous presidents, works every day to achieve a new funding model that benefits the National Health System and health, because it is one of the great powers transferred to the autonomous communities. It tells me that it is mandatory, because of the model of financing that the Socialist Party made, to increase autonomous financing, but it is that it is increased thanks to the fact that the Government of the People's Party is taking this country out of the crisis, there is more economic growth, there is more income and, therefore, there is more autonomous funding for the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Let us not forget where we come from, what we have achieved and where we are going. I'm going to tell you more, because you're talking about funding shortfalls, I'm not in favour of throwing the stuff at the head of whether a community or another community, I honestly think we're going to continue to preserve and improve the National Health System with the tools we have ahead: one is the working group of the funding model, another is the interterritorial councils and others, for example, the forums convened today in which you, for no reason - because it is not a failure either of the medical professions, nor of the advisers of the People's Party, nor of the Government of Spain - boycott the medical profession, the medical unions, the deans of medical faculties, medical students and all the scientific medical societies. This is the reality. It's a non-content boycott. Explain to the schools, to the unions, to all the doctors in Spain why today you are not even going to listen to them, because the dialogue begins with listening; and after listening comes the dialogue and then the agreements come. Therefore, it is you who break the education pact, it is you who are not working perhaps with the model of autonomous financing, it is you who are not going to listen to the doctors. Don't talk to me about dialogue, it's you who aren't practicing dialogue. First: let us listen, dialogue and agree. And in that I am once again committed, because I have demonstrated from the beginning of the legislature that I am in listening, in dialogue and in agreement. In some things we will not agree, but it is very clear that everything starts with listening, and today you are boycotting a great Spanish profession as doctors are. I'm done. This minister and this Government of Spain will always be in listening and dialogue. And you know why? Because in the last elections, where we were chosen all the people we are here, the Spaniards told us with the results of the elections that what they wanted was dialogue and agreements, and therefore the Government of Spain since this beginning of the legislature has had very clear dialogue and agreement, and we have shown it. We have shown that we have achieved great agreements with you, also with the trade unions, and with society as a whole. I urge you to continue with the dialogue, listening, growing and improving this great National Health System that we have achieved over the past forty years and that we will continue to build the next forty years, and we will do so together. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-11-CD180411.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. After the debate on the last item on the agenda, the meeting was suspended. Thank you very much. It was eleven and fifty-five minutes in the morning.
