ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of don Jorge Moragas Sánchez, I ask dona María Ángeles Esteller Ruedas if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u2	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u3	Thank you very much. In place of Don Francesc Xavier Domenech Sampere, I ask Mrs Alicia Ramos Jordan if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u4	Yes, I promise. And work to change it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u5	Thank you. Dona María Ángeles Esteller Ruedas and dona Alicia Ramos Jordan have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u6	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the debate on the questions referred to in paragraphs 29 and 31. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u7	We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 20/2017 of 29 December 2017 extending and approving various tax and other urgent social measures is a matter for debate. To present the royal decree-law on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking this afternoon at the plenary session of Congress to ask the House for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 20/2017 of 29 December, extending and approving various tax and other urgent measures in the social field. In all cases, these are matters whose entry into force was due to take place on 1 January this year, which is why the Government has had to resort to the figure of the royal decree-law for adoption as a matter of urgency. For the matters to which it relates, this royal decree-law is issued under article 149.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that the State has exclusive jurisdiction over labour legislation, without prejudice to its execution by the organs of the autonomous communities and over general finance. This Royal Decree-Law affects three specific areas of action: cadastral values, taxes on the income of natural persons and on value added and the inter-professional minimum wage, three areas whose particular importance for the sectors concerned justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law, as well as, without a doubt, the Government's request to the House to validate the content of the Royal Decree-Law. In the first case, I must recall that the Law on Real Estate Disaster provides, in its article 32.2, that the annual update of the cadastral values may be carried out through the Law on General Budgets of the State. However, since it is not possible to do so due to the absence of these, the actual decree-law that we are debating today includes in its article 1 the approval of the update coefficients for 2018. As you know, this measure helps to strengthen municipal funding, fiscal consolidation and the budgetary stability of local authorities. Its approval has an immediate impact on the property tax, as the cadastral value is the tax base of the IBI, which is payable on 1 January of each calendar year, so that it had to enter into force before that date. If this were not the case, the municipalities concerned would not be satisfied with the budget estimates they had made on the basis of this update. The measure - I have to remind you this afternoon - had been requested by 1830 local entities that met the requirements set out in the Catastrophe Act to request such an update and the Government has acted to respond to that need. This proposal is not intended to increase cadastral values globally in all municipalities, but to achieve, as the law in force points out, a more homogeneous cadastral valuation with respect to the real estate market, in the service of the principles of generality and tax justice in the aforementioned 1830 municipalities, which are included in the Order of the Ministry of 19 September. In some municipalities the review will lead to an increase, but in others it will lead to a decrease. In this way, the provisions of article 32.2 of the consolidated text of the Law on the Real Estate Disaster, which allows for the updating of the cadastral values in those municipalities in which substantial differences have been detected between their cadastral values and those of the market and in which there is - I insist - a request of the municipality, of the governing body, in this respect. The new update coefficients shall apply only if expressly requested by the municipalities. On the other hand, the cadastral value of the urban buildings of the other municipalities is left unchanged. It also does not apply to rustic real property or to property of special characteristics. I cannot fail to say to the House that the Government would have preferred, as in other issues that we have pending, that things would have gone through its ordinary course, that is, that this update of the cadastral values would have occurred through the General Budgets Act of the State, but we have found ourselves in a situation of actual blockade aimed at preventing the normal development of political management, which a few months ago we sincerely believed had entered a phase of overcoming. But this rejection by the majority of the House has returned to approve the public accounts for 2018 at the right time. Political arguments completely outside the budgetary question have thus far prevented a sufficient parliamentary majority to move forward with the budget bill. However, the Government's wish remains that this majority will be possible in the coming weeks and we trust that there will be a sufficient number of Members who put the general interest before party strategies. In any case, if this is not possible, the adoption of this royal decreeley shows the way in which the Government intends to act in order to carry out initiatives that, like those that we are debating here this afternoon, are of urgent approval with the aim of benefiting the good progress of our economy and, therefore, of the whole of Spanish society. I sincerely believe that it is our responsibility and our obligation and we will act accordingly, as the President of the Government recently pointed out. The second area covered by this Royal Decree-Law concerns various provisions of the personal income tax and value added tax. Thus, Article 2 of the Royal Decree-Law extends for the tax period 2018 the quantitative limits that were established to define the scope of the known as a modular scheme, i.e. the method of objective estimation of self-employed workers for the economic activities included in that scheme, with the exception of agricultural, livestock and forestry activities which have their own income volume limit. In the same vein, the limits for the application of the simplified scheme and the special scheme for agriculture, livestock and fisheries, from the EUR 150 000 initially planned to EUR 250 000, are also extended for the 2018 tax period, in line precisely with the new limits provided for in the method of objective estimation of the income tax of natural persons. These extensions, whose extraordinary and urgent need justifies the use of the figure of the royal decreeley, are justified because the transitional period initially granted for the tax periods 2016 and 2017 has proved to be insufficient, and it is therefore recommended that they be extended from 1 January this year. Otherwise, the taxpayers concerned would have been taxed from that date, 1 January, on the method of direct estimation of income tax and on the general VAT system, which would have affected their formal billing obligations and on the account payments they bear, with an increase in administrative burdens, which is not advisable at this time. On the basis of these two amendments, it has become necessary to establish a new deadline for submitting waivers or revocations of the method of objective estimation of the IRPF and of the above-mentioned special VAT schemes, since the taxpayers concerned had to take the relevant decisions without knowing that the amounts of the exclusionary limits were to be extended by 2018. The deadline for this submission has been one month from the publication of this royal decree law in the State Official Gazette. However, in order to simplify the work of taxpayers and not create new and unnecessary formal obligations, both the waivers and revocations submitted during the month of December - if that is the wish of those affected - and the modifications made to the above-mentioned waivers and revocations within the new deadline set out in the Royal Decree-Law will also be considered valid. Finally, the text of this royal decreeley, which is debated today by Congress, includes in its additional provision the social agreement signed between the government and the social partners for the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage in the period 2018-2020. As all honourable Members know, this is a very important agreement for a group of workers with whom we must all be particularly sensitive, who are the people who receive the lowest wages for the work they do. It is a group of about 530,000 people to whom mainly women, young people and foreign citizens belong. This rise in the minimum wage is progressing in line with what happened last year and is a result of the improvement in our country's economic situation in recent years. We are all aware that the minimum wage could not be increased as recently agreed if the economic recovery was not sound and if the companies had not gained financial strength and competitiveness, and that is what all the signatories of the agreement recognise. Just over a year ago, the government already agreed with the Socialist Party to increase the inter-professional minimum wage by 8% to 707 euros per month compared to 655 euros per month in 2016. The new increase that we have agreed maintains this line of improvement in the wage conditions of lower-income groups and is based on the impetus for dialogue and social consultation that the President of the Government committed to in the investment debate. In that debate President Rajoy established among his priorities an adequate response to the situation of people with the greatest difficulties of employment: long-term unemployed, young people and workers receiving the lowest wages, in line with the interprofessional minimum wage. The Minister of Employment, Fátima Báñez, has been the protagonist of this dialogue with the social partners over the past few months, which has yielded significant results such as the improvement of the Activation Programme for Employment and the extraordinary extension until April of the Plan. This climate of concertation has also allowed the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System, in which more than one million young people had registered by the end of 2017. This is a programme that works because 40% have found a job since it was launched. In this scenario of social dialogue, the agreement to increase the interprofessional minimum wage, which was signed in the palace of Moncloa by the president of the government, Don Mariano Rajoy, the secretaries general of the CCOO and the General Union of Workers, Don Unai Sordo and Don José María Álvarez, and the presidents of the Spanish Confederation of Business Organizations and of the Spanish Confederation of Small and Medium Enterprises, Don Juan Rosell and Don Antonio Garamendi, respectively, was concluded on 26 December. This wage increase will be 4 % for this year, to put the minimum inter-professional wage at EUR 736 per month at 14 paid, which means EUR 10,304 per year; 5 % more in 2019, to reach EUR 773 per month at 14 paid, i.e. EUR 10,819 per year; and an additional 10 % for 2020, to reach EUR 850 per month at 14 paid, which is EUR 11,901 per year. That is to say, we are talking about that in the current legislature the minimum wage will go from EUR 655 per month to EUR 850, an increase of almost 30% in four years, which will be automatic in each year provided that economic growth and job creation are maintained at levels that make these increases sustainable. According to the terms of the agreement signed with the social partners, this will automatically materialise every year when the economy records, as it is doing, real GDP growth of 2.5% or higher and there is in turn an increase in the average social security membership of more than 450,000 people in annual terms, something that will not be difficult to achieve according to the figures of the last years and very specifically in 2017. Should any of these conditions fail, the agreement provides for the Government to open a negotiation process with trade union and business organizations to determine the amount of the minimum wage for the following year, in accordance with Article 27.1 of the Workers' Statute. So, with this agreement, we have one more reason for all of us to contribute, from our respective areas of responsibility, to maintaining economic recovery in the coming years, encouraging more and more Spaniards to find employment and increasing wages, especially among the less-favoured groups. We must not forget that, as stated in the agreement itself, the existence of a higher minimum wage brings economic and social benefits, such as the reduction of the wage gap between men and women, and in groups at risk of exclusion, including foreign and young workers; the cohesion of the labour market and a more equitable distribution of income; the improvement of quality at work; the promotion of consumption; and the increase of social security income through increased contributions. As the President of the Government stated at the signing of the agreement a few weeks ago, we want the recovery to reach all households and all wages, especially the lowest, and with just working conditions. I would like to point out in this respect that this very spirit of distributing the benefits of economic recovery is what encourages us in the negotiation that we are also holding with the public service unions to try to improve the salaries of public employees and their working conditions in a multiannual agreement as has been the one signed in the area of the inter-professional minimum wage. As you know, in previous months we have already been able to agree with trade unions on the improvement of the public offer of employment, as well as to provide job stability for up to 90 % of the temporary jobs that exist in priority areas such as health, education and the administration of justice. In all these negotiations, what the Government is seeking - and I am sure the social partners too - is, as the text we are discussing today, included in this royal decree-law, to contribute to the full transfer of the positive effects of the recovery of economic activity to the citizens and to the balanced promotion of the improvement of the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and the process of job creation. I would like to conclude by thanking you, ladies and gentlemen, for the fact that you are obliged to finish my speech today by thanking the social partners for their contribution in order to make progress towards the common objective of recovering all the jobs lost in this crisis and that this job is of increasing quality, both in terms of remuneration and working conditions. At the same time, I would like to thank on behalf of the Government for the support of the parliamentary groups that will allow the validation of this royal decree-law, important for many people and important for all because it will allow further consolidation of the inclusive recovery of the economy that is already living in Spain. The Government maintains its desire to continue along this path of understanding with the representatives of workers and companies, and with the political representatives of the citizens who want to get involved in the political and economic stability of Spain, through agreements that allow us to transfer to people the improvement of the economic figures. Our will for dialogue and negotiation is still in place, and we trust that it will also be present today in most of the groups in this House, either so that we can secure new General State Budgets for this year, at least so that we can take forward issues that affect important collectives of Spanish society, such as the measures that include this royal decree-law or others with which we aim to improve the employment of all, public employment and the provision of the basic public services of the welfare state. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u9	The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With this royal decree-law, which has little more than a month in force and whose validation will have my vote in favour, various tax and other urgent social measures are extended and adopted. Among them, as just explained by the Minister of Finance and Public Service, are the coefficients for updating the cadastral values for 2018, a measure requested by more than 1800 municipalities that accommodate the forecasts provided for in the Law of the Real Estate Disaster, of which nine Asturians. All these municipalities meet the different requirements established, among them, in addition to having passed more than five years since the year of entry into force of the presentation of general values, which show substantial differences between market values and those that served as the basis for the determination of the existing cadastral values, provided that they homogeneously affect the set of uses, polygons, areas or areas existing in the municipality. This essential update provides budgetary stability and, although with effects on property tax, it does not necessarily have to involve an increase, which in any case depends on each municipality, which is the administration which fixes the tax share. This Royal Decree-Law also extends the limit to tax on modules for economic activities falling within the scope of the method, with the exception of agricultural, livestock and forestry activities, which have their own quantitative limit by volume of income. The limits for the application of the simplified system and the special arrangements for agriculture, livestock and fishing of VAT are also extended. The current limits for the application of the objective estimation method are also amended. The need for the package of measures envisaged and its urgent implementation stems from the lack of the Law on General Budgets of the State for the current financial year 2018, although from Forum we trust and wish, as Minister Montoro has just pointed out, that it can be processed in the General Courts to give continuity to the policies of economic growth, of job creation, our high priority, and in the specific case of Asturias, from the indispensable investor impulse to public works and infrastructures to put them into service as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u11	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u12	Thank you very much, President. One more week I have to remind you that I rise in this rostrum and there are members of the Government of the Generalitat, the Vice-President and a Councillor, who are imprisoned for political reasons, together with Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, and in turn there are five members of the Government who remain in exile. Having said that, Minister, we are going to vote in favour of validation, essentially for the following reasons. Of the measures proposed in this royal decree-law we obviously share the last one you have presented, the increase in the minimum wage. This is the result of an agreement of the minister with two representative unions and representative employers. We value it, we understand it is a first step, a step in the right direction. So, although we sure would have liked it to be a little more ambitious, let's give it our support. Tax measures also do, and you know it. Our group had raised the need to extend this reduction in the limits of the objective estimate of the FIFG and of the simplified estimate and the special regime of agriculture, livestock and fishing in VAT because we understood that those two years of time were not enough for many self-employed, many small businesses, to adapt. This demand had been sent to us from different sectors and entities grouping self-employed people, and we passed it on to the ministry. We could only blame him for not having taken the step during the month of November, so that we would not have caused this small stir among the self-employed, some of whom have had to rectify during the month of January their statements implying resignation or not. However, we are grateful that our suggestions have been taken note of and incorporated in this case. With regard to the updating of cadastral values it can be understood that there is a demand from many municipalities, but that links exactly with a subject that you raised: this is done by royal decree because there is no budget law. We in this House have to tell you, Minister, that there is no budget law because you have not submitted a draft. You say: they won't support me. I don't know about the conversations you have with other groups, but we need to know if we have to support them or not first we need to see them, and to see them they have to present themselves. And when you present them in this House, if you reject them, then you will be able to strike the House that you do not want to approve the budgets. As long as we do not see its draft budgets and present it here, we can put it to amendments and then approve or reject it, the only one responsible for the absence of a budget is the Government of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the Royal Decree-Law 20/2017 on tax measures and social matters, all I have to say is that our group, in principle, is going to vote in favour of it, despite the fact that normally in this type of tax measures we usually abstain, since in Euskadi and Navarre we have own finances and therefore competence in tax matters. The decree, on the one hand, sets out the measures to update the cadastral values and which affect the tax on immovable property, and on the other, establishes measures relating to the objective estimation of IRPF, in which our group has little to say since for us they are concerted taxes of autonomous regulation, and therefore exclusive competence. With regard to the VAT measure, which sets the limits for the application of the simplified system and the special arrangements for agriculture, fisheries and livestock, in our case it is a concerted levy of common rules, and therefore that same measure and in those same terms we have already included it in the corresponding external rules of each historical territory. But it is also true that in this package of measures there is one of a social nature relating to the fixing and raising of the interprofessional minimum wage for the next three years, which is the result of the agreement between trade unions and employers, and with which we agree, although we would also like to make a small reflection on this point, and that education and work are two elements present in our society and that they are also closely linked. Thus equal opportunities for access to education facilitate the effective exercise of the right to work; in this exercise of work we must also bring to the fore the European Social Charter, which states in Article 4 that all workers have the right to adequate remuneration to provide them and their families with a decent standard of living. It also states that this minimum wage should reach at least 60% of the average wage of each State, and that further efforts should be made to bring this figure closer to the inter-professional minimum wage to this percentage. This is not an easy task, because since it is a figure set by the Government for all citizens, the reality of the autonomous communities is not the same, because both the cost of living and labour costs can differ greatly from one another and therefore, although this figure of the interprofessional minimum wage could be close to 60% in some autonomous communities, in others it could be far away. On the other hand, and noting the positive data on economic growth, it would be important for this growth to reach people through a recovery of wages, because the adjustment of wages during the crisis has been mainly in the lowest wages. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u16	Good afternoon, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to denounce that there are political prisoners in Spain, that part of the Government of Catalonia is in prison, Vice President Oriol Junqueras, Councillor d'Interior, Mr Forn, Mr Jordi Sánchez and Mr Jordi Cuixart. [[Rumors]] [[Protests]] I know they don't like to hear it, but they're gonna hear it while they're in prison. [[Rumors]] Today, Minister, you are presenting to us a series of urgent measures of a tax and social nature, because you do not have general budgetary law, that is, you do not have the General Budgets of the State, you have not presented them and you cannot approve them. That is indicative of a very simple thing that we all understand: that you do not have the capacity to negotiate them, that you do not dialogue, that you are not able to obtain the necessary support to carry out the General Budgets of the State. He referred earlier to the issue of political prisoners, which is further indicative of the lack of dialogue by the Government of the People's Party. They may like it more or they may like it less. You have the key to opening the doors to dialogue, but you don't because you don't care or because you don't want to. In any case, in relation to some of the measures that you propose to us here today, such as the coefficients for updating cadastral values, Article 32.2 of the consolidated text of the Law on Real Estate Disaster - coefficients that were already updated in 2014 with the aim of contributing to increase municipal tax revenues - you, Minister, have said that you have to do it this way because there is no better financing system for local governments. At that time it also had as its ultimate objective to contribute to the consolidation of public accounts, i.e., instead of facing up to the necessary reform of local financing in order to alleviate the historical deficit with the municipalities, it was opted for a measure that, in practice, forced the municipalities to increase the receipt of the IBI, and in this way it also managed to increase the revenues of the entire public sector. Between these and other measures applied in the cadastral and IBI fields, most taxpayers have seen their receipt increased by more than 20% during the recession period, and in addition to a tax without total tax escalation. The major problem with this procedure is the linear update. This has already been pointed out by Esquerra Republicana since the beginning of its application. It assumes the same increase for all dwellings in all municipalities, except for those that have municipal charter, because they have the capacity to modify it considering only the age of the presentation of values. With this, what does the Ministry of Finance do? It opts to charge taxpayers with this linear increase, which is often unfair from a tax point of view. As I was saying, you have to go through a real decree because you, first, have not presented the General Budgets of the State, and second, you do not have enough support to approve them. Another measure is the establishment of the inter-professional minimum wage for 2018 and the rules for the allocation of new amounts of the inter-professional minimum wage for 2018, 2019 and 2020. This comes from the agreement reached by the Government and the social partners last year, which meant an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage for the years 2018-2020, an agreement which instructs the Government to fix the provisions of the Workers' Statute: the inter-professional minimum wage for 2018. Good, but not quite good, Minister. It is true that this means an increase, it is true that it breaks with the freezing, but what is also true is that the Spanish State continues to fail to comply with the provisions of the European Social Charter and not only with regard to the inter-professional minimum wage, but also because it does not guarantee - and this is often said by the European Committee of Social Rights - the right to safety at work, with a ratio of accidents at work that almost doubles that of the European average. They are also censored by the unemployment benefits paid to unemployed persons without dependent children, also amending the plan because you do not guarantee compliance with Article 12.4 of the Charter, which advocates equal treatment between nationals of each of the parties and those of the other parties with regard to social security rights, and furthermore the minimum income for inclusion is not paid for as long as it is necessary. Minister, as you see, the work that remains for you to do is not that it is little, it is very much, and you do not do it or always do it half way. It was also stated by the European Committee of Social Rights in its annual conclusions on the rights relating to health, social security and social protection of the European Social Charter. In the end, minister, everything is a matter of priorities, which you have your own and, as is evident for Republican Left, should be others. Among these should be to obtain an interprofessional minimum wage of 1000 euros, thus complying with the European Social Charter; for you - unable to agree as stated in the General Budgets of the State - to continue to spend on paying the redundancies of your friendly companies, whether banking, electricity, highway builders or failed gas platforms, or military that do not know how to build submarines. They pay and award police officers who beat our opinions and prevent retirees from being guaranteed their pensions and workers a decent interprofessional minimum wage. Therefore, Minister, this is what you are presenting to us here today. I must congratulate you because surveys are always good for you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u17	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, good afternoon. In this first plenary session of 2018, we must remember where this decree-law comes from, which is established in the State's Official Gazette of 30 December, where not only is this decree-law collected, but that tax legislation is collected by tutiplen; that is, there are eight royal decrees, ministerial orders that affect practically all taxes, and all tax legislation is changed without ton or are and claiming to have effect in forty-eight hours, which creates regulatory chaos and legal uncertainty. The reason why this royal decree-law is coming here is, on the one hand, because there are actually no budgets, and the simplest reason why there are no budgets is because you have not presented them, and until January you had not negotiated them since September; and on the other hand, because certain issues, which are not well understood, come to Congress and other tax issues of all kinds do not come to Congress. First of all, of course, there is the updating of the cadastral values to Congress, because it is a rise in taxes, and we do not agree. You yourself, on Wednesday last week, Mr Montoro, in the Committee on Finance, said that the Spanish municipalities have surplus, that three thousand of them, nothing less, not only have surplus, but that they no longer have debt. And under these conditions, why do you want to raise taxes? And he says, well, there are some municipalities that ask for it. Yes, there are some municipalities that ask for it and what has absolute priority for you is to raise taxes, even if it is the Administration that lacks the least, but all the other matters that are in the budgets do not have priority and do not come in this decree-law. Anyway, this is a curious thing. In fact, there are even relevant issues that are forgotten. You have been forgotten to extend the validity of the property tax. And we are not in favour of the property tax, but in any case what we are sure is that this property tax will come retroactively. So, in order for taxpayers to have a minimum of security, one would expect you to be in this decree-law; expect you to explain what guides your tax policy, and not try to get taxpayers to read over a thousand pages of tax regulations in forty-eight hours, which is when they came into force. I confess I couldn't read them. I do not know if you have, but I am afraid that no Member of the House knows everything that came into force on the famous 1 January. As I say to you, it is not well understood what is the reason for this rise in taxes, which masks two other measures. They again leave the module boundaries where they were when you amended them in the last Budget Act you passed when you had absolute majority. I hope that next year they will have a solution to all this and will not approve it all forty-eight hours before. Finally, there is the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, which is the opposite of other issues that are not part of this decree-law, and that the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage is a matter for the Government, in accordance with article 27 of the Workers' Statute. It is not well understood why the decree-law comes to this House; perhaps so that the Socialist Party can - in quotes - point to the merit of that decree-law, and therefore approve of the rise in taxes and the modification of the module regime. [[Applauds]] That is true, they are given competence to compensate and modify the interprofessional minimum wage, which we would have liked you or Mrs Báñez - who has left - to explain, since it is the validation of a decree-law that affects your department. We would like you to explain to us what you want to do regarding these social variables of the decree-law that affect workers who earn more than the interprofessional minimum wage. In general it is a situation where you, Mr Montoro, wait until the last day, like the bad students, create legal insecurity and take some measures that are sometimes indispensable, but the order in which you take them is not random. On the other hand, they do not submit to the House everything they should, but some things that would not necessarily have to happen here. Therefore, as we agree with some things but not others, we are going to abstain. [[Rumors]] With what we are frontally against is with the tax increases, which you and the Socialist Party are so fond of. We believe that the minimum wage should go up, and we are concerned about the most disadvantaged, so that in this sense it would be no more than through this decree-law that the European Youth Guarantee was used, because this would entail much more money for many very young people; money that we do not pay, nor for entrepreneurs, but is financed through Brussels funds. In any case, I agree with you that Spain needs budgets, so, as I have already told you the last two times that you have appeared in the Commission, I would ask you to inform Mr Rajoy about our conditions, because, from what I read in the interviews, you did not understand them. We want the investiture agreement to be complied with - it is something I always tell you - that the defendants are therefore not in the institutions, but defending themselves in the ordinary courts, and that they are therefore required to do so. On the other hand, and in order to touch on a topical issue, we want to see budgets so that there is no tax increase, as is the case with this decree-law, but a tax reduction, as planned, of EUR 2 billion, as well as that the salary equalization of the Police and Civil Guard in three years, which are fundamental issues that should be here, should not be the priority being to raise Spanish taxes, especially when there is surplus and there is little debt from the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the main concern of the people of our country? Employment, unemployment and precariousness in their multiple variants. That's how they remind us month by month at the CIS and any street. What is the real misfortune behind temporary contracts, part-time contracts, overqualification, i.e. the failure to work on what you studied, the hours of overtime that are not paid and the unbearable gap between men and women? Which one is it? Wages. Wages are the key to everything. Working people are paying less and less, and we can do less and less with the salary we are paying, and therefore we are living worse and worse. The problem is not that there is no problem, the problem is in the distribution. We have never had such a large GDP: 1.1 billion euros - with be from Bárcenas -. These 1.1 billion euros is the GDP of our country, that is, we had never generated as much wealth as a country and had never touched so little the workers of that distribution since there is registration. In 2009, wages reached 50.9% of GDP, i.e. more than half of the country's wealth. Now we're going for 47.2 and going down. In short, the cake, the wealth is getting bigger and those of us who cook it with our own hands are getting a little smaller. We and we made it clear from the minute one: the first proposed law we presented, the first of all, there for the year 2016, was the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, and time and the government itself gave us the reason, although unfortunately in these two years we have also learned that it is not worth being right if you do not have the power, because for reasons neither refrigerators are filled nor invoices are paid. The report published by this Government last December contains the following impacts for raising the inter-professional minimum wage - to whom it would affect - which I will literally read: the impact of the increase is greater for women, foreigners and young people; the unskilled are four times more likely to receive the inter-professional minimum wage; the temporary employees are three times more affected and the part-time employees are covered by the inter-professional minimum wage eight times more than the full-time minimum wage. I repeat, I am reading literally. There are great regional differences, highlighting for mal Canarias - always, unfortunately, we are the first in everything; unfortunately, not, because of Coalition Canaria -, and for activities highlighting artistic, recreational and entertainment activities, as well as other services and administrative activity. [[Applauds]] However, the largest number of collectors is concentrated in commerce and hospitality, as well as between drivers and machine operators. Workers not covered by the agreement triple their exposure to the inter-professional minimum wage. The majority of those affected work in companies with fewer than 50 non-exporters. How would it affect? I said who it would affect - we see which sectors of society it would affect - now we see how it would affect. The rise in the inter-professional minimum wage does not cause distortions in the market and competition for companies - I repeat that I am literally reading what the Government wrote - nor does it generate any increase in administrative costs; every percentage point - every 1 % - of the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage generates income to the social security system of €33.22 million. In terms of benefits, the most direct impact is on the temporary incapacity charge - on work leave -: maternity, paternity and risks during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Of course in the long term it also has an impact on pensions. By increasing the inter-branch minimum wage, the ceilings for the payment of benefits are increased and benefit is paid to persons receiving unemployment benefit, over fifty-five years old, agricultural income, RAI, PAE, i.e. the famous aid of EUR 400. It has a positive impact on gender, significantly reducing the wage gap; it has a positive impact on families, children and adolescents by increasing disposable income in workers' homes. I do not say this that I have just read, I do not say United Podemos; it is said by the Government itself. After reading and knowing all this from the mouth of the government itself, the question is: and what happened to the law of the United States We may have been voted by the majority of this Congress and set the interprofessional minimum wage at 800 euros for 2018 and 950 euros for 2020? Where is he? It is blocked in the process of amendments by the People's Party and by citizens. Every week they meet and decide to extend one more week the deadline for amendments since September 23, 2016 to read four pages and to draw up the amendments, four pages, this I repeat, September 2016, to read this we see that they have needed more than a year and a half. [[Show a few pages.-Applause]] This can only have two explanations, each more serious: or it turns out that between these two parliamentary groups, between the People's Party and the citizens, the deputies of these two groups have had neither time nor desire to do their work, for which we are paying them all, or even worse, even more serious, they are blocking Parliament to prevent the millions of people in the ballot boxes from becoming law, preventing them from improving their lives. From here our group just has to tell you something very clear: remove the shackles to democracy, let Parliament work and unlock the measures that can improve people's lives, which they pay for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u22	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing to us the validation of an important royal decree-law, because it sets in motion the mechanisms at the state's disposal to fulfil its financial obligations in a scenario where, for the time being, a possible absence of budgetary law, a first decree of budgetary extension, we could say; important in short. However, Minister, this text that you bring us is more significant because of what you do not know than because of what you have, it is much more eloquent because of what you hide than because of what you teach. This skill of yours, Mr. Montoro, as a prestigitator of finance has earned him the qualification of some financial wizard, a sorcerer's apprentice; yet it reminds me more of the famous Tony Leblanc in that film of the fifties The cheaters, when he was walking down the street of Atocha trying to trick some infidel with that of the stamp, the tocochocho, the trile; you remind me of Tony Leblanc with the cubicles and that of nothing here, nothing there, where the ball is. Because we have no problem, Mr Montoro, with the updating of the cadastral values, with the extension necessary for the application of some tax figures, and of course we have no problem with supporting them in the ratification of that agreement in order to raise the interprofessional minimum wage in a limited way, no problem, but, where is the rest, Mr Montoro? Where's the ball? Why does this decree not contain any reference to civil servants' wages, for example? It did appear in other extension decrees. Don't officials, all public officials in this country, deserve to be assured that they will not lose purchasing power during 2018? Didn't they deserve that safety since January 1st? [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, why do not the 200 million euros intended to fulfil the commitments of the Plan against Gender Violence are included in this decree? You had a direct, express, literal, unanimous mandate from this House that represents national sovereignty for those 200 million that will protect victims of gender-based violence to appear in the budget extension decree. [[Applauds]] Where do you hide the ball, Mr. Montoro? But this is not the only unfulfilled commitment. This decree also lacks, Mr Montoro, reference to the deliveries on account that you committed with the Autonomous Communities for their financing. He committed them in July 2017, committed them in writing for this 2018 at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Conference. It is autonomous funding that is not funding for autonomous governments, but funding for services that meet the needs of Spanish people in education, health care and social services. Where's this ball, Mr. Montoro? It is autonomous funding that is not ex gratia government funding, but law-binding funding, committed funding, funding that the autonomous communities have already made, have already prepared, have already approved their own budgets, funding that for the most part, you know better than I, has nothing to do with budgets, which is more than 75%, extrabudgetary funding. Minister, let us tell you loud and clear: You have no right to trileria with the resources committed to the education and health of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You have no right to keep in uncertainty and legal uncertainty the autonomous communities that already have those resources because you committed them in July last year. And in this decree, of course, we miss an update of pensions according to the cost of living. We miss this question, as it would have happened before you came to the government, as it would have happened if you had not broken the Toledo Pact and if you had not imposed by law the limited increase of 0.25 that is impoverishing pensioners. With this decree it is with which you should have addressed the pensioners by letter these days, announcing to them dignified pensions and not with that shameful letter in which you announce ridiculous and disrespectful increases of two or three euros a month. This is the letter that the pensioners should have received. Mr. Montoro, do you know what is missing also in this decree, at least in your public presentation? That agreement is missing - you will remember - which sets out the criteria for the implementation of the 2018 extension of the General State Budgets for 2017. Do you remember that deal? An agreement with key information signed by the Minister of Finance and the Vice President of the Government, but an agreement that was clandestine, because we knew it by leaking to the media. An unprecedented agreement in its nature and scope, despite what you tell us. It had no precedent in its nature and scope! An agreement which in its ninth point establishes a strict limitation of the expenditure files of each State body to 50 % no longer of what was supposed to be in 2017, but of what was actually implemented in 2017, which is much less. A limitation of 50%, half, for all departments, including education and health, for example; a limitation that can only be overcome - textual to the agreement - in exceptional cases duly justified before Mr Montoro, of course. A clandestine agreement that establishes and confirms two things: one, the will of the Government to continue to rajatabla the strategy of financing economic growth with social cuts and, two, the will of the Government - I don't know how to say it, Mr Montoro, help me - to pressure, extort and blackmail its eventual budgetary partners: Eye!, as you do not approve my budgets, here I have a tool to cut by half the investments and transfers that you are waiting for for your territories. This is like the dentist's joke, Mr. Montoro, you're saying to your budget partners, "Why aren't we going to hurt each other?" Only that you are not a dentist, Mr Montoro, nor are you Tony Leblanc; you are the Minister of Finance bound by the general interest and neither are the parliamentary groups willing to submit to your trilleries and blackmails, nor do you have the right to use the salary of officials or the financing of autonomous health and the necessary resources to protect the victims of gender violence for your trillery games in the Plaza de Atocha, Mr Montoro. Of course, we are in favour of raising the minimum wage, but this rise, Mr Montoro, is not enough. You're starting from a double mistake. You understand that decent wages are a kind of threat to growth and also mistakenly claim that the Government has no right or capacity to influence wage fixing. Double mistake, Mr. Montoro. The strongest economic growth is not that based on wage devaluation, but that which seeks added value and competitiveness in the research, innovation, quality and training of workers and in well-paid workers. The government clearly can and should encourage wage increases, for example by repealing labour reform, strengthening collective bargaining or approving determined, courageous minimum wage increases at a rate of EUR 100 per month each year to reach EUR 1000 per month in 2020, as proposed by the Socialist Party. I'm done, Minister. Three conclusions. We will support the validation of this decree because it is nothing less, we will treat it as a bill because here there are many things missing in relation to the salaries of officials, the fight against gender violence and the financing of autonomous services, and we will ask you, Mr Montoro, to leave yourself with balls and cubes, to face your responsibilities with respect and responsibility and to abandon all hope that blackmail will work for you. With us, of course, not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u23	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are starting a new session today and we are debating the validation of this Royal Decree-Law of tax measures and other urgent social measures. The thread of this royal decree continues to respond to certain social demands. The Government continues to work to improve the lives of the Spanish, trying to respond to the needs demanded by Spanish society. Mr Simancas has just stated that there are many things missing from this royal decree that he would like to see in it, and I wonder: What is it, that if the increase in the salaries of officials, the allocation for combating gender violence or other issues, such as funding and increasing resources for the autonomous communities, would you vote in favour? Then why don't you vote in favour of the State General Budgets, which will contain all these measures? [[Applauds]] Honestly, I don't understand. Many things are missing, but above all you lack one: loyalty. However, despite its lack of loyal cooperation with the Government to bring forward the General Budgets of the State, the Government continues to act with real decrees such as the one we are debating today. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation is very favourable and that makes us even more unconformist in the People's Party, because we want to create more and better employment opportunities and that this job is stable, yes, and of increasing quality. It is in our hands to achieve the 20 million occupied in 2019 while improving the quality, of course, of employment in our country and, therefore, we do not comply. Our economy is recovering. We have had four years of economic recovery, economic growth and this year we have managed to grow by 3.1%. We have created 2 million jobs - we have 19 million people working - and we are about to leave behind the worst crisis in our history. At the same time, we have reduced our public deficit to 3.1% and have cleared the public accounts of all public administrations. Therefore, we are again installed in the virtuous circle of the economy. That is why the Government is bringing to this House today this royal decree, which contains few measures, but all of which are of enormous importance for a large group of citizens and also, Mr De la Torre, for the financing of our municipalities. We already know that you are against the municipalities and that you want to abolish them, but we believe that the municipalities provide many services to the citizens and we want you to have the resources to do so in better and better conditions. [[Applauds]] That is why, first of all, this royal decree approves an update of the cadastral values, which does not, as you know perfectly well, imply an increase in taxes, because the municipalities have power in their fiscal ordinances to fix some rates on that taxable basis, which is the cadastral value. Catastral values are therefore updated to help strengthen municipal financing, fiscal consolidation and budgetary stability of local entities, which has also been requested by more than 1800 municipalities. You have also spoken, Mr De la Torre, about tax increases, and you know very well that the People's Party government has made the biggest tax cut in democracy: more than EUR 12 billion in income tax and company tax. Secondly, this royal decree extends for 2018 the quantitative limits that delimit the scope of the objective estimation method - the module method - both in the IRPF and the simplified method in the value added tax. And why does the government do that? Because it also responds to the demands made by many self-employed people who have a lot of day-to-day time to get their jobs out of the way, and for those who move to a direct estimate entails an increase in their formal and fiscal obligations, which in many cases would mean closing down their businesses, no more or less. This measure therefore prevents more than 500 000 self-employed persons under this scheme from being forced to leave the module system. [[Applauds]] The Government is once again responding to the concerns of these self-governing groups, because our goal is always to facilitate the fulfilment of their obligations and to eliminate and reduce their administrative burdens. As you know, the limits for these autonomous modules are extended, which is what comes to pass this royal decree. Finally, this royal decree contains a social measure of great importance which particularly affects workers with low wages. Thus, in its single additional provision, the Government is mandated to increase the inter-branch minimum wage by 4%. This increase, as the minister has explained, is the result of the Social Agreement on Minimum Interprofessional Wage 20182020 reached between the government and the secretaries general of Workers' Commissions, UGT and the presidents of CEOE and Cepyme. I wonder how it is possible that some in this House are against this great social agreement, which means improving the lives of many citizens; in particular, the minister has said that more than 530,000 people could benefit. Citizens will have to explain it to their voters, because here you have talked about aiming so many, but, Mr De la Torre, here no party comes to aiming so many. We came to point out so many for Spain and for the Spaniards; for that we came to work here and not to point out so many each. [[Applauds]] Some political forces such as Podemos have also put forward initiatives in this regard which are outside the scope of these Bureau's approaches to social dialogue, but we are bringing a very concrete proposal agreed with the trade unions. This, gentlemen of Podemos, is also democracy. The proposals of the Government and other political groups in this House can also be voted on. This is an agreement that is reasonable and beneficial to all. It is an appropriate and balanced measure. We too believe that it is necessary to increase the interprofessional minimum wage - of course it is necessary! - but this increase has to be linked to the evolution of our economy and, above all, to the evolution of our employment. The Government is working to ensure that no one is left behind, because recovery has required the effort and commitment of all. Let us remember that already in 2017 an agreement was reached to raise the interprofessional minimum wage by 8%, a historic increase. Ladies and gentlemen, while some in the opposition are on the verge of grapes or aiming at so many, the Government has adopted real decrees such as this one taking grapes. As the opposition tries to destroy, the government works and builds. That is why the Spanish continue to trust the People's Party. Therefore, before I finish, I would like to ask again for your collaboration to approve the 2018 State General Budgets, because the work to improve Spain we have to do among all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 21/2017, OF 29 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE ADAPTION OF THE SPANISH RIGHT TO THE REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE MARKET IN VALUES. [[File number 130/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u25	We move on to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 21/2017 of 29 December 2017 of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union legislation on the securities market. To present the royal decreeley, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear this afternoon at the plenary session of the Congress to request your support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 21/2017 of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union rules on the securities market. This royal decreeley, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December, transposes into our legislation the fundamental developments of the European Directive on Markets and Financial Instruments, the so-called MiFID II. The ultimate objective of the Directive is to establish uniform standards in the Member States of the Union to ensure orderly functioning and the proper formation of prices on the financial markets. Specifically, the royal decree-law is divided into two parts. First, it includes rules for the organisation and operation of regulated markets, multilateral trading systems and organised contracting systems. Secondly, there is a sanctioning regime. I now explain to you in more detail the content of the actual-decree law. First, the requirements for the functioning and organisation of regulated markets and their governing bodies are set out. In particular, the rule refers to those which are now known as official secondary markets, such as stock exchanges, fixed-income markets or derivatives. Thus, with the entry into force of MiFID II, these markets will have to meet new requirements to be more transparent and effective. In particular, they must put in place procedures and systems to detect conflicts of interest, ensure orderly negotiation, ensure that there are sufficient market makers - which facilitates market liquidity - and allow the management of the operational risks to which they are exposed, such as possible anomalies caused by algorithmic negotiation or episodes of excessive volatility. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law incorporates the regulation of the structure of regulated market commissions. These commissions should be transparent, fair and non-discriminatory; they should not create incentives to encourage market abuse practices. With regard to the governing bodies of regulated markets, they will now be responsible for ensuring compliance with these new requirements. They shall continue to be supervised by the National Securities Market Commission, to which they shall report significant breaches of their rules, anomalies in trading conditions or possible prohibited actions on market abuse. The governing bodies shall also have an appointment committee and shall comply with additional obligations to communicate suspensions and exclusions. Along with regulated markets, the MiFID II Directive also sets out new operating and organisational requirements for multilateral trading systems and introduces the form of a new type of contracting centre: organised contracting systems. Multilateral systems basically exchange shares or fixed-income securities, operating as alternative markets with lower requirements for issuers and therefore more accessible to smaller companies. The existing multilateral trading systems in Spain are two, the MAB, the Alternative Stock Exchange Market, and the Alternative Fixed Income Market. For its part, organised procurement systems are a new category of multilateral systems in which the various interests in the purchase and sale of bonds, bonds, securitisations, allowances or derivatives of multiple third parties interact to give rise to contracts. At present, this type of transaction is carried out without having an organized market, with only two counterparties coming into contact and reaching an agreement. Therefore, MiFID II seeks to channel transactions with this type of asset into an organized market, which will undoubtedly lead to greater financial stability, greater transparency and more liquidity of assets. In this regard, the Royal Decree allows investment firms to establish organized procurement systems to which much of the rules for multilateral trading systems apply. In addition, the rules for access and operation of both types of centres are laid down, obliging them to comply with some relevant provisions which are currently imposed only on regulated markets. In addition, multilateral and organized systems will be subject to new requirements for information to the CNMV on their operation and will have to meet more organizational and resource requirements. They will also be subject to the rules on suspension and exclusion of financial instruments from regulated markets. On the other hand, the name'supplied SME market' is incorporated into our system, in order to accommodate SME quotations under certain requirements, with the aim of improving their financing possibilities. Finally, some articles are included with the preventive measures that the CNMV may impose in relation to markets in other Member States when they operate cross-border in Spain and do not comply with the rules, without sufficient action being taken by the authority of the home Member State. With regard to the second part of the Royal Decree-Law, the aim is to ensure the full transposition of the European standard in relation to the sanctioning regime and thus to ensure the effectiveness of the new obligations imposed by this regulation. In particular, the ceiling for very serious sanctions is being raised. At present, the maximum amount of these fines is EUR 600 000, the fivefold of the profit obtained or 5 % of the own resources or funds employed in the activity which led to the infringement, which results in the highest amount. With MiFID II this limit is increased to EUR 5 million or 10 % of the total annual turnover, whichever is higher. The same applies to penalties for serious infringements, which have a ceiling of EUR 2.5 million or 5 % of the annual turnover, compared with EUR 300 000, twice the profit obtained, or 2 % of the own resources or of the funds used, which is stipulated as the limit in the current regulation. In any event, common provisions governing aspects such as the investigation or prescription of sanctions will continue to apply. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main aspects incorporated in the Royal Decree-Law which I am presenting today for validation. All of them have been enforced since 3 January, which is why the Government has decided to transpose them into Spanish law by making use of a royal decree-law. It was essential to proceed in this way to ensure the perfect approval of the Spanish markets to European regulations, thus avoiding possible distortions that would have penalised our trading centres for not being under the umbrella of MiFID II. The reform also includes the sanctioning regime for the new requirements for trading venues. Their inclusion is considered essential to ensure the useful effect of transposition, which justifies their incorporation into this royal decree-law. If these measures had not been taken immediately, the liquidity and depth of our country's trading centres could have been seriously affected, with the resulting damage to the Spanish economy as a whole. In fact, the CNMV itself had called for the urgent transposition of this part of the directive in order to avoid any doubts about compliance with European legislation. However, the Government is well advanced in the draft Securities Market Act, which will fully transpose the MiFID II directive and which we hope will be able to submit for Parliament's consideration in the coming weeks. The complexity of this new legal text, which will be a true code of the securities market and will consist of about four hundred articles, has made it necessary to disengage these first aspects in order to be able to comply with the legal deadlines mentioned a moment ago. This practice of parallelizing both regulations has been expressly recommended by the Council of State itself on numerous occasions. In short, this royal decree-law will approve the functioning of the financial markets in Spain with European standards, promote greater competition in the field of the capital market by removing barriers and will have a positive impact on SMEs. I therefore hope that more political formations will support the validation of this rule, which ultimately serves to advance the construction of a single capital market in the European Union in which Spanish companies will have access to a wider range of financing possibilities at lower costs. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parliamentary groups that have negotiated with the Government this royal decree-law, which will be treated as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u27	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. The validation of this royal decree-law which the Council of Ministers adopted at the end of last year implies in practice the incorporation into our regulatory framework of a very broad, complex and fundamental European directive on markets in financial instruments. The government, as the Minister of Economy, Mr De Guindos, has explained, has resorted to the figure of the royal decree-law in view of the imminent need to apply this directive, known by its acronym in English, MiFID II, since 3 January as a new regulation to provide legal guarantees to the National Securities Market Commission and financial institutions and market operators, and also so that it can operate in accordance with the MiFIR 1 regulation, the first level of which has been in force since July 2014, with the legal consequences proper to the environment of the single financial market of the European Union. The absence of these measures would lead the Spanish trading centres to serious risks because they would not be approved to the different European standards. On the basis of this royal decree-law, guarantees are provided to enable them to carry out operations on shares admitted to trading, in accordance with European law. It is also a question of competitiveness, to avoid what would be a serious shift of investment financial operations, etc., from Spanish trading centres to other Europeans. They are also measures affecting the organisation, operation and negotiation of financial instruments on regulated markets, including the regulation of algorithmic trading systems. Similarly, measures relating to multilateral trading systems and organized contracting systems are envisaged. Also, provisions that affect trading venues are applied, facilitating our CNMV to intervene preventively and report infringements by a regulated market, a multilateral trading system or a securities company hosted in Spain. In fact, the National Securities Market Commission itself made public a month ago, in particular on 2 January, a statement warning, inter alia, that the Directive on markets and financial instruments can have a direct effect on the Spanish securities market in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and that the CNMV should promote the effectiveness of Community legislation by interpreting existing national rules in a manner consistent with it. I conclude by pointing out that the Royal Decree-Law finally establishes the regime of infringements and sanctions and is supplemented by a number of additional provisions, including the validation of regulated markets already existing in Spain. My vote will be in favour of validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u29	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have a Parliament which is largely paralysed because of the government's abuse of the veto to legislative proposals which are born here for seventeen budgetary reasons and also because of the filibusterism exercised by some group in this House which is systematically dedicated to requesting extensions of the time limits for purely delaying the processing of legislative proposals already taken into consideration. It seems that the Executive intended to turn those of us who represent national sovereignty into a sort of new procurator in Franchise Courts, whose only effective role seems to be that of docile assent every time they bring us here some of those agonizing decree-laws that we have to pass for responsibility to transpose directives with deadlines and thus prevent Europe from sanctioning. The truth is that we are so tired of decree-law that they bring us in extremis, or rather in article mortis, because it should have been a long time ago as a draft law this directive that we only partially transpose, because this matter affects not only the interest of investors, but also the structure of the financial system. Therefore, this House should, in time, have been able to carry out that necessary reading in that double key in a calm, calm and not burdened by the ineptitude of a government that does not know how to put hierarchy in emergencies. As for the substance of the decree-law, we are surprised that there are manifestations of distrust of the role of the National Securities Market Commission - see Articles 23.3, 24.2 and 37.2 -; we are also surprised by the abuse of indeterminate concepts that introduce insecurity - for example, Articles 20.1, 22.1, 45.6 or 47.1 - and we are also surprised by the references to transparency but without saying what is understood by it and what needs to be done exactly to achieve it in each case. In conclusion, this decree-law is largely wet paper because it lacks autonomous meaning if it is not read hanging from the concepts and prescriptions that are said to be transposed. This decree-law really does not transpose, it merely fulfills a formalism to avoid a sanction, but without bringing us fully the directives. Don't worry, compromises will still act responsibly with your vote. We will not prevent the adoption of this decree-law, but we do hope that a more favourable time will come in order to be able to carry out serious legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u31	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u32	Thank you, President. Minister, we will support the validation of this royal decree, although we will highlight some inconsistencies. It is a partial transposition of the MiFID II Directive. One may wonder whether almost three and a half years after its adoption there have been sufficient grounds for not being able to fully transpose this directive. In fact, there's the preliminary draft, we'll have to see it. It is true that those substantial elements are transposed to generate the minimum legal uncertainty for operators, our group agrees - we expressed it when we presented the draft of this royal decree-law - and therefore we will support it. We also welcome - indeed - that it can be dealt with as a draft law so that more technical amendments can be tabled, I do not deceive you, than of any other content. In any case, I want to highlight this situation that some other spokesman has spoken about and that is becoming normal, and that is that we are running out of time. That in three and a half years there hasn't been enough time to make a more or less adequate transposition, knowing that there were a few first months in which this was not possible, neither do we have to see it as normal or accept it. In any case, they will have our support for this validation, as well as for tabling amendments in its processing. Bring to this House as soon as possible the draft securities market law that will complete this entire transposition. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u34	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of this Royal Decree-Law is to transpose into our domestic law its own securities market legislation, Directive 2014/65, known as the MiFID II. A directive adopted in 2014 in response to the financial crisis, the aim of which is to establish more secure and transparent financial markets that bring better protection to investors and consumers and that therefore do not repeat errors committed by unrecommended practices that are far from professional ethics, adjusting products to their needs. The explanatory statement justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law in the need to incorporate certain aspects into the legal system to provide financial institutions, market operators and the National Securities Market Commission with the legal guarantees necessary to operate in accordance with the new European legislation, with all the legal consequences in a single market environment. However, from the point of view of opportunity it cannot be said that the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional precept is present, since in this case we are talking about a situation more than predictable because the date of transposition of this directive was known and because this transposition, moreover, has enjoyed an extension until 3 January 2018, precisely because of the challenge it posed. For that reason, we believe that it is critical to resort to the use of a real decree-law when the extraordinary urgency is based, in our view, mainly on a delay in transposition, even though we believe that this total incorporation is not an easy task; we must also say that other European countries have arrived in time. In short, we have a partial transposition to prevent financial intermediaries from opting to operate in other financial markets, because they might consider that by not transposing the directive, even partially, the Spanish markets would not have incorporated the requirements set out in MiFID II. It seems that the objective in part has been achieved, since, according to the Spanish exchanges and markets, the first day of application of the same occurred normally in the Spanish market. I would also like to comment that this royal decree includes the rules for the organisation and operation of regulated markets - it regulates multilateral trading systems, it establishes a regime of infringements and sanctions - but it also highlights for its novelty the algorithmic negotiation in high-frequency markets and the organised contracting system. On the other hand, it does not include very important aspects of the MiFID Directive, such as investor protection, as it seeks to ensure that investors are aware of the risks to which they are exposed, and to separate brokering and advisory functions, as well as financial model services, which deal with incentives, governance and product analysis, but which also leave us with uncertainty as to when these aspects are to be adopted. It must be borne in mind that a partial transposition of the rules contained in this directive over a long period of time, apart from the corresponding sanctions that could be imposed by the European Union, could also create legal uncertainty and undermine the financial competitiveness of which the Royal Decree speaks. It will therefore be necessary for the transposition of the Directive to be completed within a reasonable period of time in order to ensure the mechanisms, requirements and protection provided for in that Directive and can be fully implemented, since it will have a significant impact on the provision of investment services and, therefore, on the organisational and business model of the entities concerned. Despite the fact that the royal decree starts without that total transposition of the directive, our group will vote in favour of validation in order to give legal certainty to the trading centres, for liability and because we understand this royal decree as a first step to strengthen a change in regulation under the principles of security and transparency that we understand will also be carried out through the amendment of the Securities Market Act, but it will also request its processing as a bill to provide what it deems necessary. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u35	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u36	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, at the last plenary session last year on the debate on the validation or not of the decree-law on financial information, I told him not to go that way, not to present decree-laws to us to validate European directives out of time and always with the sword of Damocles of Europe on top, with which we will be sanctioned in Europe and forced to validate them. Well, the first plenary session of the year 2018 and the first session on the front is coming. There we go. They have no remedy, that's what there is, that's what we'll have to get used to until we can change the government that, according to everything, will soon be. This time you have been overcome, because you not only validate out of time and late, but above you use a patch, a patch to try to get out of the way because you do not fully validate the directive, you do a partial validation, only of what is genuinely essential in order not to stay out of the European framework. It is clear that, seeing how you act and what it is difficult for you to approve the reforms imposed on you by Europe, you are unable to approve the reforms that Spain needs. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I announce that soon Citizens will bring to this House a law to end the first problem that Spain has, the great problem of this country, which is job insecurity. But we're not staying there. Talks have already begun with all groups to reform a law that is unfair, that is completely obsolete, that is the Electoral Law. If we had had a law in which all the votes really were worth the same, it would not have happened, for example, what happened in Catalonia; the constitutionalist parties that have obtained the most votes in the ballot box would have won and right now we would not have the problem that we have and with negotiations with independentist parties. [[Applauds]] Nor can they be seen that they are eager to reform the judiciary to give it more independence, so that the majority of the judges of the General Council of the judiciary are elected by the judges themselves and that it is not the parties that decide the dome of the judges. In that they do agree with the Socialist Party, for that they do, to distribute the positions of the judiciary. To approve the budgets, to lower the IRPF, to increase the paternity permits and to match the salaries of the Police and the Civil Guard with the autonomous police, the old parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, they do not agree, but to distribute the judiciary they do seem to agree. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, with this immobilism that characterizes the government, Spain is losing opportunities, because approving the law of the securities market and of the financial instruments was an opportunity for Spain; it was an opportunity to attract banks of the City of London that, after the Brexit, could have seen that Spain was a good place, in particular Madrid, but for that it was essential that our legislation was adapted to that European regulation and we did not arrive in time. The truth is that we are in the tail van and we wonder why Spain has to be in the tail van continuously. There have been other countries, Europe's most important economies, which have been able to transpose it in time, such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy or Germany. And all countries have also had their vicissitudes! The United Kingdom, for example, has gone through the referendum in Scotland, the referendum in Brexit, the resignation of the Prime Minister; Italy has had three presidents, and they have managed to approve the validation and have adapted. Why not Spain? For Spain has not done so because it is difficult for you to move, because you are dragging your feet and, ultimately, because you have no remedy. Of course we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law, but not to leave the Spanish negotiating centres out of play; to ensure that operations can be carried out in those centres on shares admitted to negotiation; to avoid a loss of opportunity and liquidity in those centres; to incorporate the figure of the contracting organizing systems, and to establish the sanctioning regime, as you said. But, as we said, this Decree-Law does not include important parts of the MiFID II Directive, such as the regulation of incentives, the cost of analysis and product governance. An important part of the fund industry remains to be regulated, and there are many areas that have been left out and should have been regulated. As we said, in short, once again, it is shown that you are unable to carry out the reforms that Spain needs, but the good news is that we are getting closer and closer to a new time for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u37	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, don't you have the impression that you are living a deja vu, that this has been lived by you and I not long ago and probably in another life? We ended last year with the validation of a royal decree-law in extremis, with urgency and because Brussels threatened a sanction. We started the year with a royal decree-law in extremis, with Brussels threatening a sanction and with you generating tension over Parliament. The script is the same in all sessions. You come here, you explain to us that it is very important that we validate it; you tell us that it has not been possible to do so before you do not know why; you warn us of the possibility that we will fall a penalty of pear that we will have to pay among all and not just your ministry; and obviously that you have created a context of urgency and that you will transfer the resolution to us. Then the opposition comes, we blame it - some come up and call it incompetent, another insurance that will reproach you that you are doing merit to go to the European Central Bank and that is why you do not deal with what you have to deal with - and, in the end, out of responsibility, we validate it. Then, probably, Mrs Palmer will defend him, but I hope that in this case she will not repeat that of the mantra and understand that the custom of validating the royal decree to the Minister of Economy is becoming something frequent in this House. It is like a day of the parliamentary marmot led by you and your ministry, in this case with a variant, that instead of bringing the validation of an entire directive, it has brought only the partial validation of the directive. The work that occurs is that what is not transposed is much more relevant than what has been transposed, but what has not been transposed has come into force in the same way as what has been transposed, and I explain myself. We have only transposed part of the directive, which is related to the organisation and operation of trading venues, regulated markets, multilateral trading systems, organised contracting systems and related sanctions. The argument for partial transposition was that if this did not happen, the Spanish market would be on 1 January under non-approval conditions and could therefore lead to leakages of agents and market operators. So far, fine, but for us what has not been transposed is just as important, as is the protection of consumers and investors, who, fortunately - and I will explain why now - are protected. In any case, partial transposition and approval and validation of the Royal Decree-Law does not prevent us from having two problems. On the one hand, the fine. Brussels has already warned you that partial transposition does not exempt you from the fine and that we have two months to validate the whole directive. On the other hand, the legal uncertainty that you have generated in extremis and that the actors and operators in the sector themselves reproach you that it has not yet been eliminated as a result of partial transposition. What they suggest is that the umbrella provided by the directive is not sufficiently deployed and therefore there is not enough protection. And it is not that the CNMV has directed him to transpose because, if not, we would not get the Spanish market to be approved, but that what the CNMV has had to do has been to offer peace of mind by saying that the gaps in transposition are covered by the direct application of the regulations. But the problem does not end here, but the European Commission has sent us a reasoned opinion saying that if it is not transposed in two months, they will take us to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Let us hope that in that transposition we will not resort again to the royal decree-law - that we will not have to return to this day of the parliamentary marmot with its ministry - because there we would not be willing to validate the royal decree-law, since there is the central core of the directive and of the protection of it. This royal decree, for the time being, offers us doubts that we can only resolve as soon as we know what the specific content of the Securities Market Act is. We give you a margin of confidence - not very wide either, because we are simply going to abstain - until we know what the regulation of the securities market will be that you introduce in the transposition of the directive, essentially, because what we see in this transposition is an excessive weight of self-regulation, an excessive translation of functions to the governing bodies, which, as you well know, are private bodies and in many cases are involved by agents of the market itself: self-regulating markets or markets regulating markets. Does that sound like the song to you? It's sad and it's never ended well. The other aspect of this royal decree which we also want to highlight and which might seem tangential, but which is not, is that of the workers. Banking workers have been training for months to continue in their jobs, as a result of the training requirements imposed on them by MiFID II, and have done their homework in time to continue to develop their work during their leisure time or by stealing it from the family; not at the job. I would like to devote the remaining minute to the workers in this sector, in particular the workers of two banks: Bankia and BMN. It wouldn't be a day of the marmot if I didn't name it Bankia, BMN and Popular. Do you think it is reasonable for the merger of both banks to result in an ERE with which 2291 people will be dismissed or pre-retired, almost 13% of the joint staff, while creating an ad hoc post for Don Carlos Egea, former president of BMN, raising his salary from 300 000 to 500 000 fixed euros? Does Mr. Aegean incorporate such courage into the company so that this confession can be made in that way? Does it seem reasonable to you that Bankia fired 2200 people when in 2017 six million hours of unpaid overtime were made in this country? Either there is work left or there is a lack of workers, but both are not compatible, Minister. Moreover - I am finishing, Madam President - we find it symptomatic that this happens in Bankia, which is an entity which, as you well know, is nationalized and which, curiously, appealed a ruling of the National Court in which it was ordered to install instruments for recording the actual daily. In Bankia you want to control everything but the hours of work that Bankia workers do for free for the entity. It cannot be that the transposition of directives and the reform of the financial sector fall on the workers, so we will abstain from transposing the directive out of sense and responsibility and await the proposal for a law on the securities market. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u39	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today, as my predecessors have already repeated, the validation of Royal Decree-Law 21/2017 of 29 December 2017 on urgent measures for the adaptation to Spanish law of European securities market legislation. This royal decree is the result of a partial transposition - and partial emphasis - of Directive 2014/65 of 15 May that year, regulations known as MiFID II and the regulations that follow it; regulations which, on the other hand, came into force on 3 January, a point which I believe must also be taken into account. The real decree-law that we are dealing with today transposes into the Spanish legal order a fundamental aspect for us, as is the new regulation of trading centres, both regulated markets, multilateral trading systems or organised contracting systems, as well as the sanctioning regime that you yourself have commented on. I am not going to focus on more point-by-point analysis of the actual decree - that has already been done by you - but I would like to comment that there are other parts to the MiFID II regulatory package that have not been addressed in this actual decree-law and that for us too are of utmost importance and should be implemented since January 3. Therefore, you fall back into improvisation by bringing a patch-like text to solve a problem that only you have generated, the fruit of your inaction, and it took more than three and a half years to write it. That we haven't transposed yet? A substantial and very important part for our group. I am referring to the requirements applicable to the stages of the development and launch of financial products, whereby the distribution entities must take measures to ensure that a product is not distributed outside the defined target audience. This ex ante regulation, this preventive regulation, had it been applied previously, would surely have been able to reduce or largely avoid the damage caused to small savers during the financial crisis in this country. The new regulation also requires training criteria for all employees who work by advising or informing clients within the sector. This is an extremely important aspect for future marketing practices of certain financial products so that they are appropriate to the customer's profile. Already last July the CNMV published a technical guide for the application of this regulation in this area. I have suffered as a worker in the sector the application of the MiFID I. I hope that it has also been implemented with improvements and above all with guarantees for the workers. Minister, my group shares the view that the content of the reform of MiFID II and the MiFIR regulation at European level is very important and must be applied as soon as possible because it means greater European integration into the capital market, greater protection and transparency for customers. After the experience of the financial crisis that our country has suffered like no other in the European Union, it is particularly important to avoid bad marketing practices to introduce preventive regulation mechanisms and to strengthen transparency and functioning in the markets. But MiFID II also aims to give more effective powers and tools to European and national supervisors, such as the CNMV. And here I just want to point out to you: both the CNMV's voice and its current president came to this House and made the comment that yes, it is true, they are assuming many more competencies, they have to regulate and supervise much more, but they may not have the human resources, the workers needed, as a result of the limitations on the hiring of public jobs that you also promoted. But in this case, as in others, the Spanish Government, in our view, is always late for the new European regulation. The transposition of the directive carried out in this royal decree is not much less complete and sufficient, as the President of the CNMV has admitted. This delay in implementation is due to the delay in the development of legislation at the national level, which obliges us to make profound changes in the legislation and where the Government, its Government, has chosen to draft a new law on the securities market, a document that we do not know and which still does not come to this House. From our group, Minister, we hoped that the Government would have comprehensively addressed the regulatory changes necessary for the implementation of MiFID II and collect them in our Securities Market Act and we will continue to wait despite the fact that the legislation should have started to apply since 3 January. I understand, and we understand, that this royal decree-law that you bring to this House today for validation seeks to give tranquillity to the industry and also generate competitive conditions and keep them with regard to markets within the European market, which is completely lawful and which we understand; what we do not understand so much is why they leave out much of the MiFID legislation approved, as I said before, since 2014. Finally, Minister, we can share the substance of this royal decree-law, but we will never share the forms, the improvisation. It seems that you have a maximum, that is to govern by force of improvisation and, worse, without having any clear agenda of reforms; a model of government, on the other hand, to which we are accustomed and which our group does not share, and I am not referring only to economic matters or matters relating to their ministry, but to a way of doing that is established in the Executive in this legislature. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, because we do not want to validate that way of governing, of not making decisions until it is too late and there is only the precipitation, as has happened with this royal decree. We ask you to start planning to manage and anticipate the problems facing our society and stop towing events. We ask you to bring to this Parliament the amendment, the draft law on the securities market and to bring, before the two months that the European Commission has given us the time to avoid sanctions, this legislative amendment. A piece of advice, if I may. We also ask you to spend less time worrying about the European Central Bank's armchairs and more time worrying about your ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u41	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u42	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the Government is presenting to us today for validation a real decree-law of urgent measures for the adaptation to our law of European legislation on the securities market. We've come to that, Mr. Gómez, not anything else. The failure of the European regulation in force so far in this area, the so-called MiFID, which proved incapable of preventing and reacting to the outbreak of the 2008 financial crisis, has forced a thorough revision of this regulation in order to adapt it to the new challenges arising from the rapid evolution of the financial markets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Silence
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u44	This is how MiFID II emerges, the new European regulation of the markets for financial instruments, which is articulated in three main axes. A first axis based on new requirements in the operation of securities markets and new requirements in the negotiation of instruments; a second axis aimed at increasing and protecting the investor; and a third axis focused on the governance of investment services entities, requiring greater requirements from managers. While the first is the object of the actual decree-law that is presented today, the last two, which are certainly important, Mr Montero and Mr Palacín, we are aware of this, will be widely developed in the draft law of the securities market that the ministry is developing and whose preliminary draft was already submitted to public hearing in September last year. The new regulation, the MiFID II, seeks to overcome the shortcomings of the previous system. In this sense, if there was no doubt in Europe that such regulatory changes were necessary, in Spain, as we are seeing in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis, it was even more evident, since there were significant errors in the supervision of the system and there were no limits on operations that clearly exceeded the reasonableness, which had very serious consequences for many Spaniards. That's right. The lack of reaction from the competent authorities led us to a credit bubble whose results we all know and can only qualify as dramatic. Just a few examples. Both the credit to the promoter sector and to the builder and the mortgage loan of housing nothing more and nothing less than tripled between 2003 and 2008. Also the private debt-to-GDP ratio, which in 2004 was already above the European Commission's recommended limits, stood at 133%, at 210%. On the other hand, the need to finance the economy not only exceeded 3%, which had always led to recession and devaluations, but also exceeded 9% of GDP in 2007 and 2008. In short, negligence in supervision led to limited situations that have certainly cost a lot to overcome and we have not done so so long ago. To this accumulation of financial imbalances that we have described very briefly, I would now like to add another element that unfortunately had some prominence during the financial crisis, and it is the scarce demand, almost laxity I would say, that allowed the marketing of complex financial products to hundreds of thousands of private savers unprotected for lack of information, which led, for example, to more than 600,000 Spaniards being scammed by the famous preferents, certainly with the satisfaction of the Zapatero Government, and I do not say this, but that was said by the President of the CNMV here at parliamentary headquarters. [[Applauds]] If you want, let's give you some data on that mismanagement. In eight years, from 2001 to 2008, Spanish retailers bought preference for a total amount of EUR 7573 million, when it was assumed that the preference was intended for institutions only, and one year later, in 2009 alone, 11 353 million euros were placed on retailers, i.e. 50 % more than in the previous eight years together and of them almost 80 % corresponded to entities that were already in serious difficulty. No comment. In short, we want to avoid a new scandal like that of the prefernts and this demands and requires improved control and supervision, as we are doing with this new regulatory framework. Turning again to this new regulation - I do not want to reiterate myself on technical aspects that have already been described here both by the various players and by the minister - I want to highlight an issue that has not been emphasized and that I think it is necessary to emphasize, a characteristic that I consider essential of this new rule, and that is that it promotes the improvement of access to new funding by our companies. In particular, access to smaller issuers is facilitated to capital markets and the possibility of new investment and expansion projects in our country is improved, in line with a non-legislative proposal tabled by my parliamentary group and adopted in the Commission on the promotion of alternative sources of financing for SMEs to increase their size and productivity. This figure which allows the expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises does not seem to me to be insubstantial or trivial, but very relevant. Better access to resources means greater growth and expansion opportunities on the part of companies, with the consequent effects on employment and income for the State, which ensure the future of our pensions and the sustainability of our welfare system. Therefore, no doubt relevant impacts. I do not want to stop answering some of the criticisms that I am not going to call mantras, but repetitive ones, that have been poured into their various interventions. That we are criticized for the delay in transposing Community legislation does not cease to be a curious exercise of cynicism to which I see that almost all parties have subscribed. Have your ladies and gentlemen forgotten the year of institutional paralysis of this House, courtesy of the no and all its palm trees? Please, let's be serious and make constructive criticism. [[Applauds]] With regard to the use of the decree-law as an instrument of transposition, the rules that we bring to this House today only transpose the most urgent, which does not allow any further delay, as has been explained here. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask for your support in approving this royal decree and your active cooperation in bringing the new securities market law here as soon as possible because we want to adapt the markets to the new technological and digital environment, we want SMEs to have easier access to finance, we want savers to be calm and investors to move their money and generate economic activity and employment and above all we want not to happen again what happened in the past due to the shortcomings of supervision of the previous system. In short, because of the financial stability, the security, the growth and the tranquility of all Spaniards, we ask them to support this royal decree-law and their collaboration in the processing of the bill in order to be able to adopt as soon as possible a rule that we are convinced will be beneficial to all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u46	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the impetus on the international agenda of the relevance and memory of the victims of terrorism. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. From the pain and memory of all the people killed by the terrorist hordes, as well as from the desire for all the victims of terrorism to have full reparation, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress presents the following PNL. I would like to recall the latest scenario of the terrorist horror in Kabul, in the west, with 16 soldiers killed and then an ambulance bomb that killed 103 people. This has been the last scenario, ladies and gentlemen, but there have been others who, despite being a little behind in time, do not forget us because of the horror that has caused among all good people. I would like to recall last summer's Barcelona bombing, the Paris bombing, the Brussels bombing, the 11-M bombing in Madrid, as well as the bombings in other places that have not had enough media coverage. It is necessary to bring to the fore at this time, ladies and gentlemen, that the terrorist band ETA sowed grief and blood Spain during almost fifty years in which it was active. ETA killed 857 people and left a very important trail of injuries. He only stopped killing thanks to the actions of the State Security Forces and Corpses and the reaction of civil society at a certain time when our beloved and mourned Miguel Ángel Blanco Garrido was kidnapped and later murdered. [[Applauds]] It was a turning point. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that ETA stops killing does not mean that terrorism has been defeated. We need it to dissolve, to hand over the weapons, to help clarify the more than 300 murders that have not yet been clarified and to apologize to the victims. Obviously, it is a good time to recognize again the activity of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which on many occasions even with the surrender of their own life fought for Spain to remain a rule of law, democratic and social, and also to remind them - we know, ladies and gentlemen, that they continue to do so - to continue to investigate to clarify those more than 300 murders that, as I said earlier, have not yet hung the authorship. Why? Because it's very important for many families, who would be quieter and calmer knowing who murdered their loved ones, and so that all the weight of the law can be applied to those killers. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot lose this battle in the account too. We cannot allow murderers and their kidnappers to insist that they are also indirect or circumstantial victims. As the writer Fernando Aramburu said in the novel Patria and as one of his brilliant speeches the deputy Salvador Armendáriz reminded us, they say they are also victims of victims. No, ladies and gentlemen. In Spain, the only victims are the 857 dead and the ravages of wounded left by the terrorist gang ETA and the killers are the etarras. [[Applauds]] In the fight against oblivion here in Spain, due to its unfortunate circumstances arising from the terrorist acts perpetrated by ETA, Daesh and jihadism, an important system of comprehensive recognition of the victims of terrorism has been developed. In order to help in other countries, initially from the European Union, we are trying to exploit our system of comprehensive recognition. To this end, the first draft of the European Charter on the Rights of Victims of Terrorism was drawn up in 2014, which suffered a series of vicissitudes until Minister Zoido presented it to Commissioner Avramopoulos in December 2015. This letter is based on the sixth additional provision of the Law on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, scrupulously complying with the hearing phase that has also been given to associations of victims of terrorism. Precisely now under the hegira or the Bulgarian government in the Council of Europe we hope to approve this European letter throughout 2018 so that it will be a reference. But there is not only the provision of the Act on Recognition and Compensation for Victims of Terrorism, but also the interest that President Rajoy had in the last Council of Europe last June last year in order for the conclusions to reflect the importance of guaranteeing and caring for victims of terrorism. This fact was ratified by Minister Zoido at the last meeting of the JHA, also in June 2017. Our example in the comprehensive recognition of the victims of terrorism has not only remained in the support of the European Union, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that in this respect we have crossed the puddle. I am referring to the fact that our good task in the system of comprehensive recognition of victims has been taken to the United Nations. Thus, thanks to the impetus of the Spanish Government, great achievements have been achieved, for example, the victims' portal, better coordination in judicial matters to better prosecute terrorist crimes, the incorporation of the Madrid Guide protocol to better control foreign terrorist soldiers and also in other systems. There was also a historic event within the United Nations Security Council in October 2015 under the presidency of Spain, and it is that, after more than seventy years, the voice of the victims of terrorism was heard for the first time in the United Nations. Victims of ETA, victims of Boko Haram and victims of Daesh were able to express clearly what their feelings were and what the system of recognition and equal treatment was intended in all parts of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of progress, but we still have to urge our Government to put an end to everything that is still in progress. I'll outline in broad lines what we want. We want to see the recognition of victims' rights with an equal catalogue for all victims, the adoption of the European Charter on the Rights of Victims of Terrorism and the adoption of the comprehensive United Nations strategy for victims of terrorism. There are two other fundamental issues I do not want to forget. We urge the Government - although we know that it already has that sensitivity - to lead awareness and awareness of the victims of terrorism, and a very important moment could be the meeting to be held in Spain of the G-6, meeting of Ministers of the Interior on terrorism and its financing. We must continue to give a loud voice to the victims of terrorism because they and their moral example delegitimize all terrorist actions and thereby contribute to the elimination of that theory or narrative that they seek to establish radical forces, as well as to improve their conditions. We are preparing a compromise whose text I will pass to you to vote on if we reach an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is time to continue our commitment to the victims of terrorism in order to maintain their memory, dignity and justice. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u48	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech by recalling on 6 February, such as today, in 1992, twenty-six years ago, the day when ETA killed three captains, a soldier and a radiotelegrapher with the explosion of a car bomb in the Plaza de la Cruz Verde, in the old town of Madrid, my city. Unanimous condemnations of trade unions, civic organizations and all but one political party, the usual one, joined that day to the indignation of the Madriders and to the anger of relatives and neighbors of the victims. A unanimous condemnation, without justification, without empathy or complicity with the murderers; murderers whom some nationalist parties or governments today receive as heroes and men of peace; whom even some Members of this House take as reference for dialogue. [[Applauds]] The defeat, ladies and gentlemen, against terrorism - Mr Manuel Valls said this weekend receiving the Gregorio Ordóñez Prize - must also be a political and cultural defeat. Terrorism is nothing but an attack on our democratic system, on our constitutional values, on our culture and on our freedom. For this reason, the political defeat against terrorism, the past and the present, requires more democracy, more Constitution, more condemnation against any act of exaltation of terrorism, more respect, more memory of our victims. To keep the memory of the victims of terrorism, to protect them from institutions, to condemn acts of exaltation of terrorism is not the political use of the victims, ladies and gentlemen, it is not to throw the dead at each other, it is not to reopen wounds, it is simply to respond to the moral and political debt we have with the victims. Something fails in our society, ladies and gentlemen, when there is no unanimity in Spain in the unconditional condemnation of terrorism, when political parties are not able to go to one in the common strategy against terrorists, when some are not able to sit at the table of the Counter-Terrorism Pact beyond their status as observers. In the face of violence, assassinations, tyranny, executioners, there are no political corrections, there are no good intentions or equidistance, there are no claims, there are no bleaching of the terrible past and much less there are tributes, because in addition to the terrorist attacks that continue to exist in our country, we cannot lose sight of the humiliation that the victims of terrorism continue to receive in some areas. Ladies and gentlemen, these acts before which the institutions often look elsewhere, alluding to the right to freedom of expression, demonstrate the permissibility of some municipalities in the face of the cult of the terrorist and the exaltation of terrorism, yielding to those who preach with radicalism and humiliate the victims, to our victims. The victims of terrorism, their families, their legacy, are the best of our society, the noblest part of our values and our raison d'être as a country. The victims and their families, children, parents and brothers, have renounced the hatred that motivated their murderers to attack their lives; therefore, for their courage, for their commitment to constitutional values, we must protect them in a special way. A recent example is the testimony of Gregorio Ordóñez's son, Javier Ordóñez Iríbar, published a few days ago on the anniversary of the murder of his father. Another recent example, however, is the statements of Mr Arnaldo Otegi, a gentleman who, despite his history, is allowed to threaten all citizens with veiled threats saying that the days of wine and roses of unionists will last little. [[Applauds]] This non-law proposal presented today by the well-intentioned People's Party is a further step towards the memory and protection of the victims of terrorism, certainly something positive and enriching; however, we believe that this initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, follows the continuum of all the initiatives that you have presented and is incomplete. We want to take a further step in the protection of the victims of terrorism. For example, its non-legislative proposal does not take on the responsibility of institutions to curb radicalization. Don't pick it up, ladies and gentlemen. It does not take into account the inequality of compensation between victims who have a conviction and those who do not. When should a reform of the Law on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism take place? Even the Ombudsman has been recommending this since 2015. The People's Party Government is still doing nothing. And what about unsolved crimes? There are four hundred unsolved ETA murders. Are these victims less victims, have fewer rights? Why should this distinction be made between victims of terrorism? These claims are the ones that are being claimed by the groups of victims of terrorism. It's no use giving the victims a voice if we don't take into account what they tell us and their demands. Let's get to work, ladies and gentlemen. We promote mechanisms that effectively guarantee the rights of victims. Let us take the responsibility of the institutions seriously. Let us take into account the needs of each case and ensure individual protection of the rights of victims. Let us not differentiate between those who have a conviction and those who do not. They're all victims. Unfortunately, their pain and loss survive and will survive. Ladies and gentlemen, let us propose to create an effective instrument, beyond the European charters, for example a specific directive on victims of terrorism. We adopt protocols for action, we promote the International Statute for the Rights of Victims. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Let us dare to return to those killed by the enemies of the nation the dignity, the protagonistship and the memory they deserve through concrete and effective mechanisms. The victims of terrorism are and must remain the moral reference of our nation against terrorism and nationalism, the symbolic bastion of our nation against the enemies of freedom and our democratic values. To this end, it is necessary to strengthen the protection mechanisms and guarantee their rights, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u50	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I think it is fair that from this rostrum we join in the pain of the victims of ETA and also of so many victims who have to do with the reprisals of Francoism; victims of the Basque Spanish Battalion; victims of the LAGs; victims of the 11-M, of the greatest jihadist attack in Atocha; so many victims who do not leave alone in their misfortune and their pain to the victims of ETA but who also have to be claimed from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] For our parliamentary group, it is very appropriate that Spain, since the Solidarity with the Victims of Terrorism Act 1999, shares a normative system for the protection of the victims of pioneering terrorism at the international level thanks to many actors, including Navarra and Basque institutions, as we welcome the end of military ETA terrorism, the last active expression of terrorism since the transition, achieved mainly thanks to the action of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the modernization of the country, the awareness and mobilization of Spanish society and political action. We believe that it is necessary to continue this work of claiming the rights and voice of the victims of ETA terrorism, jihadism, the LAGs, the Basque Spanish Battalion, the Franco dictatorship, in the consolidated international human rights framework as regards victims of serious human rights violations. However, we would like to stress that, in our view, it would not be appropriate to try to create a specific category of victims, with a strong doctrine, I insist, of human rights at the international level. The 11-M Association has recently expressed: We are particularly drawn to the attention of this parliamentary group whose political party governs Spain which promotes such a debate without, to date, a single debate, analysis and discussion on the situation of victims of terrorism in Spain, as required by article 63 of Law 29/2011, on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism. Since September 2011, when Law 20/2011 entered into force, this requirement and legal process have never been met. There is no doubt that the political significance of the victims of terrorism must be emphasized in the sense that, with mastery, it was formulated by the philosopher Manuel Reyes Mate, a concept that was incorporated for the first time in the Basque Law on Recognition and Reparation for Victims of Terrorism of 2008. The claim of victims of terrorism and serious human rights violations must be made without distinction, since it is neither the characteristics of the victim nor the personal qualities of the victim nor the political assessment of victimization that generates a moral quality of the victim and his moral example. All victims are innocent victims because their victimization is unjust and unjustifiable. The mistake of patrimonizing some victims of terrorism to legitimize a particular political project should not be repeated. There can be no victims of first and second terrorism for any other reason, nor can there be any attempt to exclude from the international framework the victims of serious human rights violations, the victims of the dictatorial repression of our post-war period. Victims of serious human rights violations are victims because of their status as passive subjects of political and unjust violence by a third party against them or their families, whether a terrorist group or individual, a State or a dictatorship. It is to this victimization, to the injustice of such harm, not to personal and individual values, to which they owe their dignity as victims. This thesis is further strengthened if we take into account what has been done by the administrations of the People's Party with regard to the victims of the uncontrolled extreme right-wing terrorist groups and the LAG, who have had a great deal of difficulty in recognizing their rights. However, without prejudice to the above, greater consideration would be given to the Government party in the light of the Government's actions against victims of different political significance. We still have many good practices to incorporate in Spain in this matter. We believe that it is essential to put this self-criticism on the table and that there should be a commitment here to put an end to bad practices in this area. For example, the resistance that the Central Administration has always shown to develop a policy against victims rather than reactivates; insufficient information on legislative developments incorporating victims'rights; lack of search, identification and tracing of victims; decentralized provision of comprehensive services. Victims'associations cannot be allowed to continue to be forced to alleviate the passiveness of the Administration. There are many victims, including ETA, who have had problems in recognizing their rights; also many of the victims of the serious attacks in Atocha. That is why legislation with specific support from victims is necessary, according to which we insist, with its specific characteristics and designing active policies that include the search for and identification of such recognition. Finally, it can be mentioned that in recent years there have been various experiences of restorative justice in Spain in terrorist crimes, mainly of ETA, but also of the LAG or of jihadism, which have been described as very positive experiences for reparation to victims, for the rehabilitation of victims and for the ethical, political and social delegitimization of terrorism. To this end, the Government must support these experiences, promote and disseminate them at the domestic and international levels. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u52	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u53	Thank you, President. Firstly, we would like to bring to the consideration of the proposing group, the People's Party, that its non-legislative proposal has never been the subject of a minimum consensus with the other parliamentary groups. To make a proposal, even if it is a GNP, on the subject of victims of terrorism seems to us to require a prior dialogue, a search for consensus on such a sensitive subject, on a State issue. However, we have been surprised by the presentation of this non-law proposal in this way and with such generic content, so contradictory and so incongruous. We understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government, that this is not the case. We also understand that a proposal on the victims of terrorism, on all of them, must be the subject of a prior consultation process, an inclusive inclusion process, allowing associations and foundations of victims, all of them, to participate in a proposal in Congress, in Parliament. What I am telling you is what we Socialists would have done, because we understand that the mechanics of participation, consultation and the search for consensus on issues as sensitive as this are absolutely essential. You have not, and what have you provoked? They have led to a very uneven debate, a debate that stems absolutely from what was initially the framework of the non-legislative proposal, the debate on the international agenda for victims of terrorism; an international agenda focused on its proposal, in principle, on the impetus, in the defence of a European Charter of the Rights of Victims of Terrorism. Your GNP has caused nothing more and nothing less than twenty-seven amendments, many of which, if not absolutely strange, do fall outside the scope of this debate, even if they are all respectable. We will say at the outset that the Socialist Group would be willing if it were to do so, and in fact it supports them, it agrees with the vast majority of the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European People's Party - we support the vast majority - we also agree with the vast majority - with all but one - of those tabled by the Citizens' Group. We believe that we should have done a work of alignment, a work of integration of the group's amendments in order not to make this issue a partisan battle, as may have been observed, but quite the contrary. I believe that it is also a matter of sensitivities and of believing what the battle against terrorism means and defending the memory, honour, dignity and truth of the victims. These are special dates, at least for me; I say to me because these days have been celebrated the anniversary of the murder of Gregory Ordóñez and, very recently, of the murder of the Poto Múgica, of Fernando Múgica, and very soon, this is February, the anniversary of the murder of Enrique Casas will be celebrated. In these murders, and even General Garrido, it was my turn to arrive first at the scene of the attack, when one of the victims was still alive and that is why I think we can say - like all of you - with that sensitivity and coherence, that we have to be sensible and take great care of the forms when it comes to this issue. The intervener from Podemos has read earlier a review of a note that the 11-M Victims Association has taken out and, it is true, that note says very important things. For example, gentlemen of the Government and of the People's Party, why is the sixth additional provision of Law 29/2011 of September not being complied with, by the way, a law promoted by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero? That additional provision states that the Government - in this case already concerned after six years - must promote and promote a European Charter in defence of the rights of all kinds of victims of terrorism. The current Government has been under that obligation under the law for six years and is failing to do so. Now it seems that they come with a GNP to remember what a legal obligation is. But, in addition, article 63 of that law - also of September 2011 of the Zapatero Government - in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 states that the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, must submit annually to Parliament a report on the situation of the victims of terrorism in Spain. Has this report been submitted to Parliament annually since 2011? Where is he? Who's got it? But the law says more; it says that it is also necessary to consult, to contrast, to meet with the governments of autonomous communities and with associations and foundations for the preparation of this report and to see the situation, needs and reforms that the Citizens Group has cited in relation to the care of victims of terrorism or their families. That is what covers this proposition not of law, what hides: the breaches of a law. You talk about the international agenda - we think very well, we have pushed it - but you are not fulfilling the legal obligations, the annual report where mistakes are detected and the participation of the groups of victims, families, associations and foundations. But, in addition to this issue, there are other issues - yes, I am finishing - that seem to us to be substantial. There are mechanisms that you are not putting in place from the Government to comply with other aspects of that law that I have just cited. We therefore support all the amendments. Ours refers to the issues I have pointed out, in addition to mentioning that in terrorist attacks the victims are victims of human rights violations. Our purpose is to urge you to withdraw this GNP so that parliamentary groups can discuss internally with the victims and their associations and make an overall proposal. I conclude, Madam President, by commenting on one of the amendments tabled by Podemos. In their last amendment they talk about the granting of a great cross to the victims of the Spanish Basque Battalion, the LAG, the extreme right, etc. We don't think it's the frame or the moment, this isn't a tailor's drawer to get into everything. In any case, you have recently come to politics but I must tell you that in San Sebastián in 2002 the City Council in full agreed to the award of the Gold Medal of the City of San Sebastián to all victims of terrorism, to those of ETA, to those of the LAG, to those of the BVE and to all others. Also to the victims of police excesses in franchising in 1975 - to Ripalda - we gave them the gold medal of the city. So they don't make anything up. Let us bear in mind that victims, victims, we now remember all of them but, in particular, the victims of ETA, it is evident, and the victims of jihadism. I hope they withdraw the GNP so that we can do these things right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Mateu for his words to me and congratulate him on his non-legislative proposal for many reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have a permanent moral debt to the victims of ETA, they represent the contained and confident response that Spanish democracy and the rule of law would respond for them, and they would do so without revenge, with firmness and justice. He didn't take justice by his hand. They, the victims, teach us that it is possible to overcome anger, overcome fear and live without hatred even having suffered the greatest injustices. That is why this debt that we have with them also forces us to denounce today, first, those who hide or pretend to hide the reality of this terror with a lying, opportunistic, equidistant and immoral narrative, equalizing violence to equalize victims. Second, denounce those who have illegally gained social and political spaces by resorting to violence or benefiting from the miserable tree and nut theory. Third, denouncing the professionals of the division, those who make the confrontation their modus vivendi, the warlords, the Otegi of 'the worst for all better for them'. Fourthly, to make a self-denunciation - to us, yes - for not having had the courage to have called the murderers for their name or denounce Basque nationalism for their intolerable passivity for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, this debt also obliges us to thank the sacrifice of all those who prevented the triumph of the political theses of exclusion and national construction through the shooting into the back of the head: police, civilian guards, military, intelligence services, judges, prosecutors, teachers, entrepreneurs, journalists - few, few journalists but courageous - who denounced the lack of freedom, the lack of pluralism and the moral misery of those who use terror for a political purpose, as last Saturday reminded us of the widow of Goyo Ordóñez. Some of the most prominent members of this terror, ladies and gentlemen, still put and remove governments, as in Navarre, and allow themselves to give lessons of democracy, having been macabre protagonists of the decision to socialize suffering, as is the case of the spokesman for Bildu in the Foral Parliament of Navarre. We, Mr Mateu, will support all the measures that serve to make visible the example of the victims, their moral clarity, and we will continue to denounce those who, by negotiating with the heirs of the proetarras, try to make moral balances to whitewash the history of ETA's terror by resorting to juggling and deception with which to try to convince us that the executioners were also victims, as the Navarra Government is currently trying to do. Welcome to the proposal, Don Jaime, I hope you have broad support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an internal GNP, and it is a good time to remember that the internal adviser of Catalonia, at this time, cannot exercise because he is in prison, just like our vice president and just like two leaders of two important entities in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am going to stick to the subject, and I am going to talk about the international agenda on the victims of terrorism. This is a noble cause. We have already adopted a GNP, also from the People's Party, in which we appreciated all the efforts made by both the United Nations and the European Parliament and the European Union in this regard. This is important, the suffering of the victims of terrorism, especially when there are cross-border elements. And what the GNP says about this kind of thing being simplified, it has to be homologated, because this is a noble cause. We agree perfectly with that. Terrorism is now a global phenomenon and global solutions are needed. We believe in particular that the Spanish State has a special responsibility to promote this type of legislation. Not only in time, but also in variety we have had all kinds of terrorism in the Spanish State: the extreme right, the extreme left, the evil call for national liberation, the jihadist, and, why not say so? State terrorism. In this sense, the Spanish State must be one of the few in Europe that has a special and sad experience in all kinds of terrorism, and this special responsibility must make it push this kind of initiative. In this respect, and seeing positively the large number of amendments, you will have our support for all, all the victims. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u59	Thank you very much, President. On the subject we are discussing, I would like to point out to you that tomorrow I will ask the Minister of the Interior about the attack at the Aldana bar, now in his 38th Anniversary and in which four people were killed and ten were seriously injured, mostly affiliated or supporters of the PNV; an unsolved attack and that, according to various indications, members of the Baracaldo police station were accused. We are presented with a non-legislative proposal that calls, in general, for the promotion and promotion of greater awareness of the victims of terrorism at international and European level, which is reflected in their recognition and support so that, finally, it can crystallize into normative frameworks that guarantee assistance, defence and support. In this respect, I should like to point out that our group, in general, will support the initiative, just as we did a month and a half ago with a similar term. At that time, efforts were being made to seek support for the further promotion of the process of adopting an international status for victims of terrorism at the UN level. And that same support is now being called for by adding to it the promotion of a European Charter on the Rights of Victims of Terrorism. As already stated in the previous debate, to which I referred to the beginning of my speech, the greatest difficulty in agreeing to an international status as victims of terrorism arises from the difficulty in defining the same concept of terrorism by the different ideological conception that can be taken into account in the competing circumstances in each situation, as evidenced by the spokesman for Esquerra in that debate. The extreme and recurring question that is sometimes asked is whether it is terrorism to attack foreign military forces by the nationals of a country who claim to defend it, or whether it is an act of asymmetric war. It is these kinds of issues that, together with others, prevent the States of the international community from agreeing, and perhaps this is also a tacit explanation of those who argue that the victims of terrorism do not need a special status of protection because they are already included in the generics of other crimes. We do not share this argument, because the goal of terrorism is always the same, beating a community, a society, to violently twist the course of its institutions and, to achieve that goal, attacking members of that community. That is why terrorism strikes a society in the face of its victim. The immediate victim is the one who suffers in his or her flesh or property the attack and the mediated victim is the entire society. This is the specificity of the victims of terrorism against the generic category of victims of other crimes. Hence, the protection of victims of terrorism by society is a fundamental asset in combating terrorism, as well as listening to them and making their voice heard as an example of social and ethical delegitimization of terrorism. However, this does not necessarily mean that the political activity of the institutions in relation to terrorist activity and, where appropriate, pacification processes are subordinated in all circumstances. Because, in order to write a new page, it is necessary to close the previous one appropriately and properly, and that is the exclusive mission, or fundamental mission, of politics and society as a whole, as well as as as a mediated victim of terrorism. This process must be accompanied by the approach of a prison policy in accordance with the circumstances and the resocialization of prisoners, as well as the revision of the legal architecture and public security policies not in accordance with the new times. All this, in order to seal a new basic agreement of coexistence that is the broadest expression of society's pluralism on ethical values and that is based on four principles, such as the rejection of any form of legitimization of violence, not accepting the minimization of human rights violations of other signs, discarding any compensatory justification between violence and avoiding discrimination between victims. I'm done. In defense of the victims we will always find ourselves, and we would also like to find you, the People's Party, in the process of an orderly end to the violence that lasted more than five decades in these lands. Thank you very much, Your Honor; thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u61	It's very late for everyone and everyone; thank you, President. I will be very brief and I hope that it is clear enough. From Esquerra Republicana we have always defended the protection of the victims of terrorism - always - and of all the victims of terrorism, regardless of who the victim is or who the executioner is. We therefore call for the inclusion of the victims of terrorism, with the same rights, of the victims of the LAGs or the Spanish Basque Battalion. We therefore demand the recognition of all the victims; I repeat, of all. And that is why we do not understand that the Spanish Government has excluded someone like Yolanda González, a fighter for democracy, from the distinction of civil merit to the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] We don't understand this. We also demand that all the victims - I repeat, all the victims - of the Franco dictatorship should have their rights recognized. Having said that, it should be made clear that the best policy for victims is precisely the one aimed at prevention so that they do not exist. In this regard, it would be good if, instead of squandering millions of euros and police resources in monitoring, controlling, prosecuting and beating Catalans just for wanting to vote, they were destined to pursue terrorism. This would be frankly fine. It would also be good if, instead of denying access to sensitive information to the Mossos d'Esquadra, responsible for security in the area of terrorism, they devoted themselves to better controlling CNI confidants, such as Ripoll's magnet, for being responsible for the terrorist attack in Barcelona this summer. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra and, in particular, all the agents and agents of the Ripoll police station, also for their work and above all for their professionalism. I'm done. Please make a thorough analysis, a concise analysis and above all, if possible and not much to ask your ladies and gentlemen, an honest analysis of both your security policy and the recognition of the victims of terrorist violence. It's going to be a lot better for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u62	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mateu Istúriz whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u63	Madam President, the spokesmen of the various groups are analysing the text that has been proposed and as soon as we have a solution we will get it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u64	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is placing the Government at the post in practice of a plan against labour exploitation. [[File number 162/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u65	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to implement a plan against labour exploitation. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, equal rights and the correlation of forces are fundamental axes of a democratic state. [[The Lord]] When these principles break, the opening of a path that only leads to inequalities, abuse and even tyranny in its various forms inevitably takes place. When two parties begin the negotiation process and one of them does so from a position of extreme inferiority, the final pact will know the figure of a clear winner, but at the same time the agreement reached will drag a series of abuses and perversions that will turn it into an immoral and degrading pact. This is what has happened in our country's labour market since the Labour Reform of the People's Party government dismantled the rules of the game of collective bargaining to the detriment of workers and clearly in favour of employers. His attempt to decapitalize the union muscle, together with the urgency of the Spaniards to meet their basic needs and those of their families above all, has led the workers of this country to have to live with a term as aberrant, improper and intolerable as that of exploitation. Because this word, even if the Government does not want to hear it, is that which resonates in thousands and thousands of jobs in this unequal Spain of which it is guilty a government that nourishes its self-esteem by recreating in the macro-economy but that prefers to take away the look of the unjust, vexatious and exploitative situations that are an undeniable reality of the Spanish labor landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of regulatory reforms have been taking place since 2012 at the hands of the People's Party, aimed at making the labour market more flexible and encouraging contractual figures that have so far been moderately used, such as part-time contracts. The most important change in this respect has been that of the supplementary hours system, since from the Royal Decree-Law 16/2013 the permitted number of these is increased, as well as the possibility that they are carried out by workers with temporary and indefinite contracts. Finally, the formalities for their completion are reduced by introducing the concept of voluntary overtime for indefinite workers, in which no written agreement between the parties is necessary but only the offer of the employer and the acceptance of the worker. All these changes have been accompanied by a gradual increase in the business resource of the part-time contract. Also, according to data from the latest EPA, in 2017 the most used contract of the total number of registered contracts was the temporary part-time contract; in particular, 31,8 %, which represents 1 out of 3 contracts and adds one more element to the precariousness map because 4 out of 10 indefinite contracts are also part-time, 41,47 %. To sum up, in 2017 workers in our country have worked about 5.8 million hours of overtime per week, of which more than 50% have not even been remunerated. The calculations made by the various trade unions estimate that the possibility of creating some 200 000 jobs has been lost, leading not only to job creation but also to the contribution to the Social Security Fund. It is a situation that shows that in a large part of the contracts of employment that are carried out more hours than those provided for in the contract and no longer even under the formula of supplementary hours but in fraud of law, carrying out the worker systematically a day longer than that provided for in the contract. This derives from the part-time contract, which makes it very far from being the instrument that allows workers to reconcile their personal and family life - which was also one of their main objectives - to turn them into a la carte worker, an outstanding worker on a phone call from the company and at their disposal to know how many hours they are going to work and what days they are going to work without even having a minimum forecast. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is clear that putting an end to job insecurity requires repealing the labour reform of the People's Party and the drafting of a new workers' statute. However, with this non-law proposal, which is in line with other legislative proposals, such as the registration of the day and the amendment of article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute, we intend to provide solutions to a situation in which their usual behaviour does not come from looking elsewhere, as the Government usually does, nor to defer or deny the problem. To consider an infringement by each worker affected in the event of a breach of the rules and legal or agreed limits on overtime and overtime, to establish the timetable in the part-time employment contract and its communication through the Contract@ system in Social Security all seem to be very logical and easy to apply measures. You cannot deny the obvious because you know that the result of the work of the Labour Inspectorate is the tip of the iceberg of the Spanish labour market, bathed so much in precariousness, exploitation and violation of workers' rights; of a country in which the social fracture is accentuated by a select club of a few with greater wealth and a multitude of workers who are neither exploited nor who lose faith in labour guarantees because they are defenceless because of legislation that places them on a level of vulnerability and absolute defencelessness. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's labour policies, aligned with the interests of the employer, have resulted in certain employers mistaking their position of superiority in a shameful and regrettable way. Not long ago, in the Canary Islands, the president of a boycotting business sector dared to say that in Spain it is because he wants to be exploited. The phrase in question is the endorsement of the feeling and the situation of immoral superiority of which employers, entrepreneurs who understand as natural their status of prevalence and who come to believe in a level playing field in the relationship with workers when that balance of forces became part of the history of this country since the People's Party government fulminated the correlation of forces in collective bargaining. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group understands that the measures we are pointing out must be taken as soon as possible, that they must take effect as a matter of urgency because labour exploitation in our country is as obvious as it is undeniable. Here there is no delay or further delay, here we have to walk light and do the opposite of what Mr Rajoy said when asked about the pay gap and said that of: Let's not get involved in that. Ladies and gentlemen, we must get involved and put the glove on the exploitation and the exploiters, and I believe that today we have a magnificent opportunity, as long as those proposals for legislation come out that I believe are decisive in ending the exploitation of labour, in demonstrating to the citizens of our country that we are on the line of correcting through positive proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya. In defence of the amendments put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u68	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A couple of weeks ago, in the Committee on Employment, we already told the minister that the members of the People's Party should not be so consistent with the employment data we have. It is to be welcomed that the number of social security members increases, that the number of employees increases and that unemployment rates are reduced, but it is true that if we take the data with which we have closed the 2017 financial year and started the 2018 financial year in terms of precariousness, these data remain unacceptable. When we speak of precariousness we speak, ladies and gentlemen, of temporaryity, of involuntary part-time contracts and of low wages. When we talk about precariousness, we talk about 6 million poor workers who do not reach the end of the month. And these are the data we have on our labour market. We continue to move in alarming numbers in terms of unemployment, especially if we talk about youth unemployment, where we have more than a million young people under thirty years of age in unemployment. If we talk about over 50 years of age, we have about another million, and if we talk about long-term unemployed, here we are over 2 million, more than half of all our unemployed. Moreover, in order to consolidate the creation of just under half a million jobs, it was necessary to sign more than 21.5 million contracts, of which 19.5 million were temporary. This means that in the Spanish economy forty-four temporary contracts must be signed in order to consolidate a single job in net terms or, which is the same, we follow in the same data that we moved at the beginning of the legislature, that is, nine out of ten contracts that are concluded in Spain are temporary. And what have you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, done all this time? Well, I'm telling you, they haven't done anything. We're in a situation that's going from bad to worse. Currently the rates of temporality are almost 27 %, more than 4.2 million employees have a temporary contract, when a year ago they were just over 4 million. If we talk about transformation, we are in the same numbers, less than one in ten temporary employees have become an indefinite contract, according to Eurostat data. And do you know what the consequence of all this is? That temporality has become an endemic problem in our labour market that neither you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, nor you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have known or wanted to address, becoming a structural feature of the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]] As I say to you, temporality has always been very high, both with the governments of the People's Party and with the governments of the Socialist Party, but never before has it been accompanied by such unacceptable data of precariousness. The increase in temporality has come from a fall in average wages and the increase in temporality has come from the finding that Spain is the country of the European Union in which wages grow the least. The increase in temporality has come from the increase, as I said, in the number of workers who do not reach the end of the month and from the consolidation of inequality. All we have to do is see Oxfam's report in Davos to confirm that the recovery has not been accompanied by a greater weight of wages in GDP, a result precisely of the precariousness and these low wages that we are talking about. If we talk about indefinite recruitment, data with which the Government so much likes to breastfeed, it turns out that such data hide other realities that are also associated with precariousness and that have not been corrected either, because indefinite contract is not always synonymous with decent employment. More indefinite recruitment does not proportionally mean more full-time indefinite employment, as indefinite employment also hides part-time work data, what we are talking about here today, as well as fixed discontinuities. If we look at the December 2017 data, we see that around 4.8% of the indefinite contracts were full-time, that is, one in twenty of the contracts concluded were full-time. We currently have 2.8 million part-time workers in Spain, of whom 1.7 are involuntary. In percentage terms, according to data from the International Labour Organization, the number of people working part-time involuntaryly is around 60%. These data are also synonymous with precariousness and also with a marked gender feature. As far as fraud is concerned, we are, of course, alarmed about this every year by the Labour Inspectorate, especially in the use of temporary and overtime contracts. As I say, it is a reality that the Labour Inspectorate denounces every year, but the Government has not done its duty here either, as we remain in the same ratio of inspectors and sub-inspectors that we had eight or ten years ago. We do not say we have to put a police officer or an inspector in each company, but we should try to reach the European Union's ratios if we want to fight this scourge. On this subject, as in many other reforms, you continue to drag your feet. [[Applauds]] From our point of view, this initiative by the Socialist Group seems to us to be one more patch. There is a need for a thorough reform of all labour regulations, which does not differentiate between first and second-class workers, which adapts to the new realities of the digital economy, which equals rights to temporary and indefinite workers and which, with the necessary flexibility - this initiative enters into - controls the fulfilment of workers' days, especially in part-time contracts. We recognise that this initiative is going in the right direction, at least at the bottom of the matter, but I have to tell the Socialist Group that we have tabled an amendment and we hope that it will be taken into consideration, because when you give up sometimes you get out of hand. We are constantly seeing this in the Toledo Pact and in the Employment Commission, and I say this because the Royal Decree-Law of 2013, which seek to repeal - all reforms have their lights and shadows and the 2012 reform of the People's Party has them - precisely established that the possibility of overtime should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u69	Mr. Del Campo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u70	I'm done, President. It established that the possibility of overtime - which I do not know how it occurred to the People's Party to put it in the temporary contract - should be eliminated, and more flexibility, which does not have to be accompanied by fraud, but above all the obligation to establish a registration in the part-time contract, which is precisely where a registration is needed. However, they intend to repeal it when they have brought an initiative into this House to register all employment contracts when it may not be so necessary there, whereas it is in the part-time contract.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u71	Mr. Del Campo, finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u72	I simply tell you to clarify yourselves - whether I register or not - and to take our amendment into consideration, in which case we will vote yes to your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u73	For the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u74	Good afternoon. The writer Manolo Rivas - Manuel Rivas - says when he writes about the precarious and precarious workers in our country who are the dispossessed workers. They are the humiliated workers, they are the workers without grips, they are - he says - the workers without union crutches. They are - continues Manolo Rivas - neo-slavery. This is what we are talking about here today, about neo-slavery and new forms of exploitation in our country. Certainly, Mrs Rodríguez, this initiative speaks of one of the founding elements of labour law. The history of labour law is explained by two variables: on the one hand, the struggle for the reduction of working hours - the worker's time of disposition in favour of the employer - and, on the other hand, the struggle for wage improvement. This founding principle of labour law has broken - here we have a discrepancy with you - and not only by the last reforms of 2013 of the People's Party, but I will strongly affirm here that it is the sign of identity of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Precarity is the sign of bipartisan identity. [[Applauds]] I want to say this loud and clear because the workers say that in our country there has been a great labour reform, which was in 1984. From this brutal precarization what we have had has been small deviations, but the great social change, the great alteration, was precisely in 1984. Therefore, Mrs Rodríguez, the march of this country is that there is a tacit pact between the PP and the Socialist Party in favour of economic powers to alter something fundamental to us, which is the principle of stability in employment. This is very serious, because the figures in our country are very bad. Spain continues to increase its working hours every year. We increase working hours, we distance ourselves from very long Germany and other countries, but we have very poor efficiency and low productivity. It's to make us look at it. We're doing very badly in all the figures. But, more abundantly and with great emphasis, let us say what has been achieved since 1984 until the task of the People's Party has come to an end: to break the principle of stability in employment, which means, first of all, to achieve something that we had not known in our country: labour poverty. Having a third of poor workers is a shame for our country. We cannot allow our people to mallive and depend on Caritas and other NGOs when they are incorporated - especially women - into the labour market. [[Applauds]] Secondly, they are workers who are stripped and have no rights and, thirdly, it is a deliberate strategy of bipartisanism to cut public spending. It is clear that the precarious person does not have access to unemployment benefits, it is clear that the precarious person does not have access to pensions and benefits from the public social security service. It is therefore clear that they need precarious and precarious to continue to exploit us and to keep the bank making money. [[Applauds]] We've already got this that says very well Professor Boaventura of Sousa Santos. He's talking about lumpenciudadania. Getting into the labour market no longer makes us have the rights of citizens. We have been confiscated, as he says, rights. We're not citizens anymore. Well, that's exactly what we're fighting. Mrs Rodríguez, we are making eight amendments to the Socialist Group's initiative because we want to go to the bottom of the matter. The first is the background to the explanatory statement. Of course, more and better needs to be done, especially in the area of gender and in the global approach I have expressed. Secondly, they have contradictions. We do not share that we have to wait for the unemployment rate in our country to fall to 15%, as you do, so that we can make up for the working day. We do not agree, we are not on short-term initiatives. Thirdly, we agree to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, but I want to give a given. We have registered more than 21 million contracts in our country and more than 19 million are temporary. Which Labour Inspectorate is able to control fraud here? It's impossible. That is why we propose that, with the amendment we have made to you, we not only make a plan that is specialized in administrative matters, as you say, but precisely specialized in the issues of precariousness and gender bias and in the particularly affected sectors, which, as you know, are hospitality, commerce, banking and a long and infinite etc. There are also contradictions because you in your initiative criticize the individualization of the working relations that the People's Party has made; we agree, but we will not share with you that overtime can be agreed a posteriori in a purely private relationship between a defenceless worker and the employer. It is certainly contradictory and we also amend it. I conclude with a relevant issue that we cannot explain, although I would like to do so because of the exploitation impact it has. Eduardo Galeano said in one of his last lectures: I ask you a question that concerns me and I worry about how, I suppose, all of you: are workers' labour rights now a topic for archaeologists?, just for archaeologists? The women and men of United We can-In Comú Pomem-In Marea, we tell them that on the street!, that on February 10th we will go out with our workers to fight against precariousness We tell them that we want a fairer world, that we do not want to exploit labor, that we do not want a gender gap and that we want to make laws like the ones we are doing to change the world of our daughters. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u75	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u76	Thank you very much, President. From the People's Group we have tabled an amendment urging the Government to continue to work for the Autonomous Communities, to continue working in the social dialogue to combat fraud, unjustified timing, to deter unwarranted recruitment with more sanctions; to intensify the Labour Inspectorate's campaigns; to ensure that there is a conciliation agreement in the social dialogue; and to improve part-time unemployment benefits. That is the amendment which we have tabled and which you will certainly not accept. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, believe and bet on social dialogue, we want the government to reach agreements with the social partners, with trade unions, with employers, in social dialogue. This GNP, Your Honor, is an intrusion into social dialogue and we have not aligned ourselves, as has been said here, with the employer. We are aligned with social dialogue, whether they like it or not. And you've talked about labor reform. That labor reform that you demonize and that is, by the way, the one that has copied Mexico, the one that you have copied France, Italy and soon Argentina. That is what has allowed Spain to lead the creation of employment in Europe, Spain to lead the reduction of unemployment in Europe, Spain to lead the creation of youth employment in Europe, Spain to lead the creation of women's employment in Europe, Spain to lead the creation of self-employed people in Europe and Spain to lead the creation of full-time indefinite employment in Europe. That's labor reform. [[Applauds]] And you know what we don't lead in Europe? We do not lead part-time job creation in Europe, Your Honor. We're not number one there, look at you. Part-time contracts - Eurostat data -: Spain, 15%; the EU average, 20%; Germany, 27%; France and Italy, 18%. Ladies and gentlemen, 97% of the recovered employment is full-time employment. True, much remains to be done, but it will always be better to create 1700 jobs a day than to destroy them, as was the case when governing another party. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what you say in the explanatory statement is that full-time indefinite recruitment is replaced by a partial contract with overtime and out of legal control, that is absolutely false. You also talk about temporality, you continue with the mantra of temporality, precariousness, temporary contracts... Ladies and gentlemen, indefinite recruitment, according to the 2017 EPA, is growing twice as much as temporary, that is to say, 357,900 jobs have been created indefinitely and 179, 000 jobs temporarily, twice as long. We have had the longest period of indefinite recruitment growth, forty-eight consecutive months. Three out of four people in this country who have a job have an indefinite contract, 7 points more than before the crisis. That there are temporary contracts? Of course there are, but those less than a month old don't even reach 0.90%. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have regained all indefinite employment and we are at the same level as 2007. The temporary contract has to exist for the needs of our market, but it will remain causal, ladies and gentlemen. The left broke the principle of causation in temporary recruitment, and this Government precisely wants to reinforce the causation of fixed-term contracts. Don't be cynical, ladies and gentlemen, 90% of the contracts signed are temporary. That's been happening since the 1980s in this country, and I'm going to tell you something else. How many times is a temporary contract counted? A lot. How many times is an indefinite contract counted? One. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that more than 600 000 jobs have been created, double the number of permanent and temporary jobs. As far as labour exploitation is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I say that this Socialist Party will be the same as that which governs in Andalusia, because there are sanctioning dossiers there for contributing less than five thousand nurses to the Andalusian Employment Service. You, too, are talking about a pay gap, that we have to get involved. We must not just get involved; we must get involved, take action and narrow the gap, which is what we have done. We are at historical minimums, according to Eurostat: 14,9, i.e. 4 points less since 2012 and below the European average. People said we haven't done anything. No, just to recover 70% of the jobs destroyed by the crisis; 2 300 000 jobs created with the People's Party Government. You say that's nothing. Nothing more and nothing less; much remains to be done, but 70% has been recovered. We can talk about humiliated workers, without crutches, of neo-slavery. I only talk to him about the double morale of Podemos, who seems to be the greatest defender of labor rights and then turns out that eight out of ten workers, for example, of Podemos Galicia have a part-time contract. [[Rumors]] The men of Podemos are falling down. And make no mistake, ladies and gentlemen, the sign of identity of the People's Party is to be the party of employment. I conclude by thanking the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate for all the work it is doing, preferably in the control of part-time work, on temporary contracts without cause. Even if you do not accept this amendment, be assured that the Government will continue to work within the framework of the social dialogue - we do respect the social dialogue - also with the autonomous communities, so that new measures will be put in place as soon as possible to achieve the objectives of quality and guaranteed employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. The figures for the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and the data on compliance with labour law certify that the Government is achieving good results in the fight against labour fraud, although never again is the persistence on a subject in which it will always have to remain vigilant. The various sections and axes of action that this socialist initiative seeks to draw up a plan against labour exploitation constitute an entirely unjustifiable amendment in a struggle which has made very important progress in recent years and which are quantified in significant savings, more than EUR 20 billion for the social security system. Denying this evidence is tantamount to completely disregarding the indisputable advance that involved the adoption and implementation six years ago of the Plan to combat irregular employment and social security fraud, which intensified, as never before in our history, the belligerence against the harmful behaviours of workers' rights and the punishment of fraudulent conduct against social security. It should be pointed out that in less than six years, thanks to this plan, half a million irregular jobs have emerged in Spain and almost seven thousand fictitious companies have been found to be accessing benefits, i.e. they were defrauding Social Security. Therefore, recognizing the interest in the effectiveness of the Labour Inspectorate in the application of the rules to detect and punish fraudsters and exploiters, we do not share the calamitous analysis from which this non-law proposal is promoted, which, on the other hand, should not be very pressing since, since its signature, it has been in the Socialist Group's refrigerator no less than since August 2016. That is to say, today, year and a half later, they demand - that is, paradoxically - that these measures be implemented as soon as possible. In short, the Plan against Irregular Employment and Social Security Fraud is offering very significant progress. That is why we reiterate our support for the work of the ministry, which rightly believes its success in the fight against labour fraud and also the progress made in providing our country with higher quality employment within the first need of 3.7 million Spaniards today, which is to have a job. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Socialist Party brings us a GNP which calls on the Government to implement a plan against labour exploitation, and beyond measuring or knowing how labour exploitation is measured, the first question we ask ourselves since Compromís is whether there is actual labour exploitation in Spain. I would like to transfer here, to the Congress of Deputies, three experiences of three people, of their working life and their life experience. In the first place, Carmen, aged fifty-three, works in a fruit and vegetable warehouse in the Vega Baja region. The hour comes at 3 euros. He works on average four hours a day, that's right, no fixed schedule, phone pending in case it rings, and obviously he can't reconcile his work and personal life. An example of what they call flexibility, I suppose. Paquita, forty-five years old, works as a dresser in the textile industry in Elche, in the district of Carrús. His hourly salary is 2 euros. He doesn't have a contract. His work schedule is practically all day. Juan is twenty-eight years old, he is a Crevillent natural, like me, and works in an industrial rubber plate industry. Your schedule, twelve hours a day. Its working conditions, being in an industrial iron at 50 degrees in winter and summer. Anyone who judges whether or not there is labour exploitation in this country. We have it very clear. I'm done. The increase in labour exploitation has been the response of the People's Party to the crisis. Ours, for people's rights to be respected, is to modernize the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u81	Thank you, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is indeed putting forward a non-legislative proposal with a plan to combat labour exploitation. The explanatory part of this initiative could be shared in the sense that the legal changes that have been introduced in recent years, which have made part-time work more flexible and allowed overtime to increase, have led to abuses by certain companies, and some of the data provided by this initiative corroborate this assertion. That would be a good reason to vote in favour of the content of this initiative. But at the same time, when we read and analyse the proposals put to us by the Socialist Group, we have reasonable doubts that the response to abuses on a part-time and overtime basis is in line with reintroducing rigidities in the functioning of labour relations within companies. Among other things, because we know that the introduction of these greater rigidities will probably - because we have experienced it on other occasions - lead the elements of the submerged economy, of the undeclared economy to continue to grow, and to rely everything on the action that the Labour Inspectorate may have on it seems to us to be voluntary. We are convinced that a labour market that is able to combine the flexibility required by businesses and the social protections that they require and that part-time workers need is essential, but we do not believe that it will help to create jobs or increase economic dynamism again. From that position, therefore, our group is going to opt for a abstention, inviting the Socialist Group to work further on proposals and answers that will be useful in dealing with problems that we share in substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u84	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We have announced from now on that my group is going to vote in favour of this proposal, because it coincides not only with its historical approach to this issue, but with concrete measures that it has even promoted at another time. Here there is a simple equation. If article 34 of the Workers'Statute provides for a fixed working day of 40 hours; if article 35 adds that there are a limited number of hours of work in eighty, which in addition to temporary or part-time contracts is proportional to that possibility, and if in turn the number of contracts being concluded in that country -9 out of 10 - are part-time or limited-time, and in parallel the number of overtime hours has risen exponentially, the result of that equation is too worrying. In other words, there is a certain level of non-compliance with labour law which is based mainly on the existence of a practice contrary to the law, which resides in part-time or limited-time contracts. With regard to overtime incorporated into part-time work under Royal Decree 16/2013, we have long held that this part-time contract was not designed to incorporate overtime, but rather to reconcile on the one hand the effectiveness of the contract itself, adapting it to its actual purpose, and on the other hand, also to the reconciliation of family life. But it is the regulation itself that incorporates a juicy hatch to fraud, because it allows to raise the part-time working day through overtime up to 90% of that ordinary day. That is a temptation in which, unfortunately, it seems to have fallen - Mr Campuzano said and perhaps a few - quite, apparently, and we believe that it is difficult to suppress only from the scope of the law on infringements and sanctions in the social order, only from the punitive right in the social order, because in our view the pathology of the problem lies there, both in the low wage level that exists in the Spanish State, which does not induce, but which obliges many to increase their time to obtain economic resources, as well as in another reason intrinsic to that change, which is the imbalance that causes an excessive number of overtime hours, also a consequence of the imbalance between the formal purpose of contracts and the real causes that motivate them. From that perspective, we support the measures proposed in the first subparagraph, as they seem consistent with the purposes they point out. But it also seems to us to be more appropriate, more coherent, even those mentioned in the second place, which affect the regulation of the part-time contract, and therefore the modification of those conditions which have facilitated its misuse and the level of fraud in its use. We believe that overtime in part-time contracts should be limited to assumptions contained in truly accredited collective agreements or covenants, and for exceptional reasons and not the other way around, moving them somewhat away from the voluntary nature of Act No. 16/2013. To that end, I do not think it is necessary to recall another legislative measure which is also pending in this House. I believe that it is also on the initiative of the Socialist Party, which is the one relating to the recording of hours worked, including all types of contracts, which should also serve this specific purpose, but also so many other legal cautions that, in general and in such a tuitive area as the right to work, we have always pointed out the need for them to be sufficiently regulated and linked to the existence of the cause, of work. Decausalizing recruitment involves distorting the conditions of recruitment, also decausalizing dismissal, and other consequences, decausalizing contract amendments, conditions of employment regulation files, etc. It is all these precedents that have led us to a situation of absence of protection from truly vulnerable situations, worrying situations such as those that have been given to us. In this sense, we understand that in the future, effective protection responses to workers must be offered from the right of action in which the right to work consists, because we have it above us, and in the times when the digital employment system or linked to digital platforms are approaching us, deregulation can be effective in some issues, but it is not so in what consists of the essential content of the employment contract and this is one of them. This is one of those measures that we support and that we believe is correct, so, I repeat, we will support the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the report by the European Agency for Fundamental Rights on severe labour exploitation in the European Union points to Spain as one of the countries of the Union with the most cases of labour exploitation. The report also points out that the problem particularly affects immigrants, considering that they are victims - and I quote literally the person responsible for the report - of the most severe forms of exploitation that lead to servitude or slavery. This is indicated as exploitation practices work without contract, non-compliance with the minimum wage or payments to Social Security, threats of deportation or passport retention, and vital conditions of overcrowding. In this regard, it is considered that among the most serious problems in the Spanish State to combat this labour exploitation of immigrants are the lack of support for the victims, impunity and even the complicity of society as they normalize and do not condemn the subhuman conditions in which immigrants work and live, especially those who are in an irregular situation. It is therefore no coincidence that the main economic sectors in which greater labour exploitation is detected are those where there is a greater presence of immigrant workers, such as the agricultural sector, the hotelmaker, food services and domestic work. It is therefore surprising, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that there is not a single reference to immigrants in an initiative dealing with labour exploitation. If we don't visualize this part of the problem we're hardly going to solve it. On the contrary, keeping invisibility the exploitation of immigrant workers we are perpetuating, when not legitimizing by passive. In another respect, it should be stressed that labour exploitation in the Spanish State has been legalized since the last labor reforms that have created the figure of the precarious, that is, people who work for wages of misery or with great job and social insecurity, which mortgages their material and psychological well-being. The People's Party fills its mouth with the successes of its labour reform and employment generation, but its labour reform does not generate quality employment, but precarious employment that keeps the working class in poverty and job insecurity and vital. In addition, contributions to social security are decreasing, and as a result it affects the very maintenance of pensions, especially if employment generation is associated with bonuses in the business contribution to social security, as we have seen in recent times, with the liquidation of the Social Security Reserve Fund for the payment of pensions. There is also a blatant abuse of overtime not only because many are not paid, but because more than overtime are structural hours that form part of a working day in B, which harm the exploited worker and prevent the generation of new jobs. Finally, it should be noted that the labour exploitation that legitimizes labour reform is not a consequence of the crisis, it is not a short-term problem, but an ideological one. The right, represented in Spain by the People's and Citizens' Party, is allowing labor exploitation, while large companies and fortunes are becoming richer and richer. The paradigm of all this is in the hotel sector, where Las Kellys are coming to charge 2 euros per room, despite the fact that the hotel sector has recovered the benefits of before the crisis. It is not the crisis; it is the market, friends, the neoliberal market. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. I ask Mrs Raya Rodríguez in turn to accept or reject the amendments tabled if her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u88	Yeah, we're trying to make a deal with Podemos. The citizens' and the People's Party, although we appreciate the effort they have made in tabling amendments, we are going to reject them.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u89	Well, I beg you to present it before the vote if there is compromise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u90	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the political situation in Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, you have the floor Mr Tardà i Coma.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, with all solemnity and indignation caused by the imprisonment and exile of the Government of Catalonia, we turn to you for a motion urging the Spanish Government to establish a bilateral dialogue with the future Government of the Generalitat, in order to reach a democratic resolution to the demands expressed permanently in Catalonia. Unfortunately, we note that the Spanish State continues to equate Catalonia's democratic process of independence with a violent rebellion, when the world has admired itself for its massive, civic and peaceful character. On the contrary, Spanish justice intends to sentence its leaders to 30 years in prison, even though it has had to violate fundamental rights, which is why it does not dare to keep its accusations before an independent justice such as Belgian or Danish. The British empire never dared to apply the crime of rebellion to Gandhi, who was also fighting without violence for India's independence. In fact, his cruelty can only be compared to the justice of South Africa of apartheid, which sentenced Nelson Mandela to life imprisonment. Installed in this repressive and authoritarian spiral, they are now preparing the general case against independence - the next trial to be held in Madrid - for, reproducing words used by the Spanish Government, 'deceiving independence and replacing its democratically elected representatives'. With pain we note that the Spanish Government continues to think that there is only one repressive solution to the Catalan demand; violence demonstrated on October 1, 2017 against the citizenry who came to exercise the vote in the referendum of independence. And at the same time, the Kingdom of Spain still does not assume as a cause of the same movement for independence the ancestral animosity towards Catalonia, turning it into the inner enemy that ardent Spanish patriotism and filled with Spanish flags the balconies of Spain, an anti-Catalan prejudice based on the rejection of the will of the majority of the Catalan people expressed in the ballot boxes; disregarding the result of the referendum of the Statute of 2006, modified by the Constitutional Court against the same Constitution; disregarding the result of the Catalan elections of 2012, by denying the Parliament's proposal of a referendum agreed as that of Scotland; disregarding by the Constitutional Court the result of the elections of 2015, which prevented the Parliament from debating the laws of the referendum and transitionality; disregarding on the part of the Spanish Government the result of the last elections and preventing Carles Puigdemont, the candidate with greater support, from being president of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And abuse of power too, ladies and gentlemen; yes, abuse of power. The abuse of power is undoubtedly the cause of the decanting of much of the Catalans by civil disobedience as a last resort. The abuse of power of the same Constitutional Court acted in violation of article 152.2 of the Constitution, which states that a statute approved in a referendum can only be amended by the same procedure, and acted as a trigger for an escalation that culminated in the application of article 155, which was abusively applied, because the article does not allow the suspension of the Catalan Government and Parliament, as it became clear at the time of its drafting when Manuel Fraga's particular vote, which granted this power to the Spanish Government, was rejected. Understand this, following the referendum of 1 October, following the declaration of independence in the form of a republic in the Parliament on 27 October; following the elections of 1 December, and once the independence majority in the Parliament has been ratified, bilateral dialogue is essential to make normalcy possible, just as without the consent of the majority of Catalans there can be no solution, because a democratic state of the 21st century cannot hold Catalonia to its own. Without the will for bilateral dialogue, as the Puigdemont-Junqueras Government has repeatedly expressed, and also various Catalan and Spanish political forces, the problem will be eternalized and instability will be chronicled in Spain, because a State based on abuse of power has a flimsy label on the front, and is doomed to deteriorate the democratic rights of all its citizens, as the Intelligence Unit of The Economist, which places the Spanish State on the verge of becoming considered an imperfect democracy, warns them in its recent report. Without bilateral dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, you will only have to intensify the repressive strategy against a desire for independence which, according to the results at the polls, is defended by a large part of Catalan citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view the only possible alternative is the democratic resolution of the conflict with regard to international treaties forming part of the Spanish legal system, according to Article 96 of the Constitution. Today the motion that we are presenting will be rejected, but you must know that, even if you kept your will to make us suffer and you proposed to fill the prisons with Catalan citizens committed to democratic principles, such as Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart and Joaquim Forn, for our part, always, always, we will ratify in democratic, civic and peaceful convictions, and we will not tire of urging you to bilateral dialogue. You, ladies and gentlemen, have the answer, and yours is also the responsibility. For our part, bilateral dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr.Tardà, listening to your intervention, I could not help but think of that phrase that put Virgil in Laocoonte's mouth: Timeo danaos et dona inferentes, that is, I fear the danaos, even when they bring gifts. And it's just that some gifts are poisoned. Those who passed social laws in Catalonia yesterday for the Constitutional to lay them down and strike them against the State today ask here that the State respond with dialogue to its actions contrary to the laws and to the social majority of Catalans and Catalans. Well, look, Mr. Tardà, no. Not like that. Elections to the Parliament of Catalonia have defined the damaged Catalan political landscape. In other words, independence does not have half of the votes cast. Independence therefore has no democratic legitimacy to proclaim or certify any independence either according to the fundamental Catalan laws or according to the democratic mandate that has been clear: you have 47% of the votes. Independentists can form a new nationalist government, yes, but they must immediately recover the Statute and respect the social majority of votes in these last elections. Mr. Tardà, are you willing to respect the non-independence social majority set up in the ballot boxes? Because the respect you're asking for is round and round. Because if what you are asking here today is to be respected, as I said in the campaign, to have proclaimed independence or the republic, no; no. His declaration of independence was made without any legitimacy, legal or democratic. To insist on this deepens the atrocious division between people, the irreparable damage done to Catalan institutions and the violation of the basic rights of all Catalans. The first thing that Esquerra can do is to form a government, a Catalan executive that strictly complies with the regulations and laws of all Catalans. The sacred rights of all citizens reside in the laws, those laws that were born from the great transversal consensuss throughout Catalonia. Vulnerating the Statute and unilaterally disobeying the Constitution was an anti-democratic act against all the rights of Catalans. Mr Tardà, you publicly promised government by mid-January, and here we are, in February, composed and without government. I agree with you: Catalonia has to have a government now. I also share with you that no one is indispensable, no one above Catalonia. Stop symbolizing, Skype calling, using elected independence assemblies, or imagining republican councils abroad. Stop mistreating our Catalan institutions. What has not been achieved by a dictatorship will be achieved by you. That's enough, Mr. Tardà. Not like that. [[Applauds]] The mantra of the democratic mandate has served them for a break and a break, hasn't it? Some have used it a lot to say that first me and then me too. And this is only to fight for the hegemony of your political space, even now, being in a technical tie with those of Mr Puigdemont; even now, even so, you still continue to act as lackeys at the service of the convergent power. Free yourselves and act for the good of Catalonia. There is a democratic mandate. That has established that you have the responsibility to make a government and to recover the Catalan institutions in order never to return them to the arbitrariness and unwiseness of the 6th and 7th of September last or to the nonsense of declaring independence outside of any legality and outside of the democratic majority of Catalonia, because this you know perfectly well, but you do not have the arrests to say it with all the letters. He's afraid to tell the truth, he twists it every day for fear of being pointed out as a traitor. His fear is that Puigdemont will give them back the 155 coins of silver, those with which Rufián sank Catalonia in misery on the morning of October. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, what anchors a historic party like Esquerra to a servile and acritical follow-up to Mr Puigdemont, who has proved to have no political responsibility at all? Politics, if it is demagogic, sometimes becomes impossible. I understand the complexity of your situation, but it is excessive to come to this Chamber to distract from the substantial: that you are unable to make a government today. Catalonia demands to recover our country and that goes by building a common public space of all Catalonias in one. Both must realize that Catalonia is not and can never be with only half of Catalonia. Independence must understand that we do not ask them to renounce being; instead, if it is their greatest desire, we demand them to respect the consensus and the common legality. His political circus maneuver may find some loudspeaker today. Socialists want to dialogue and give political answers to a political problem, and that is what our amendment says. Read it. What cannot be expected is to call for a dialogue on a government that does not exist or on an independence that has never occurred, because it would be the same as a dialogue on a diving wild boar or a flying shark, something surprising but totally unproductive to the case. However, we share with you that we must dialogue bilaterally, as the text we have presented to you says. The Statute of Catalonia, which, together with the People's Party, you did not want, allows it; the Constitution observes it and respect for those laws also underpins that inalienable right. It's over, President. Therefore, instead of presenting this motion, the viable thing would be to form a government and convene the Bilateral Status Commission, which independence has not convened since 2011. What you ask is very different, twist the words and their meanings to achieve the victimistic effect to which we are accustomed. In Roman paladin, Mr. Tardà, deceives and lies politically here. You must decide not to hide your shame...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u94	It has to end, Mr. Lamuà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u95	Will you let me finish, President? One sentence. I hope that you will decide in favour of all Catalans, Mr Tardà, those who are independentists and those who are not, and that is directly contrary to continuing to act as a chamberlain of the convergent Catalan right. If you accept our amendment, you will show that your will for dialogue is real and sincere. Get rid of the yoke of Puigdemont, be useful and help Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u96	Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions. [[Mr.Ruffian Romero: All right, Lamuà. Very well.-Mr.Lamuà Estañol: Thank you, Rufián, you are great]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Protests by Mr. Rufián Romero]] Mr. Rufián, you are not speaking. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I am not going to allow voices or calls, as I say to you, to be heard outside the Rules of Procedure. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr Tardà, five very critical and personal reflections on the breakup process that we are experiencing in Catalonia. The first is that I believe that we are living at the end of a historical cycle of Catalan political nationalism, which was characterized by the fact that its ideology and project had no real political opponents. It was a project fundamentally designed for half, and therefore in that comfort of political action neither illegality nor impunity can be said to be maintained. That cycle is the one that's over. Second idea, you in my opinion seek in the conflict a constant benefit, and you do so in a conscious way believing that this is how you will gain some benefit for your cause. It is a conflict against everything, against the State, against institutions, against the law, against citizenship, is what is called socializing the conflict, we already know it, but have you evaluated the usefulness or the balance of all this? Honestly, I don't think so. Thirdly, beyond the historical tolerance of constitutionalist parties with the phenomenon of secessionism, you have perhaps underestimated the firmness of the rule of law, the strength of Spanish institutions, the strength of the law, the existence of the law, the existence of the State. You have ignored the law and thought that your revolution would blow up the worn-out seams of the constitutional regime, but, Mr.Tardà, what has happened is that you have not measured your strength and all you have managed to do is give Mr.Aznar reason. Fourthly, few revolutions - you call them revolutions - led by radical movements turn out to be peaceful, no matter how much you want it, because the fact that you have not reached a civil confrontation does not mean that your project, which we know of the 1990 texts, is peaceful for those who do not share it: the control of the media, education, intimidation, marking, etc. I believe that the supposed peace and kindness with which you claim to extend your separatist idea does not occur naturally in Catalonia, is a direct consequence - we have been doing so for thirty years - of the incomparance, the peace of the afraid, of some, and of the clientile totalism and the patrimonialist conception of others; now we know. But that, Mr. Tardà, has obviously changed. Thursday. Europe, Mr Tardà, does not pretend to be the club of exclusive identities, borders and stagnations that you would build. Their demands are outside Europe, at least outside the European Union's construction project and, unfortunately, out of time. The social reality, Mr Tardà, is plural. Identitys are complemented, concentric, embraced, added from the near and obvious to the shared and global. In addition, values, of which the European Union is adept, cannot be broken down into territories. Freedom, the rule of law, the social State, solidarity and equality have no territories. His ethnicist or ethnolinguistic claims have been left absolutely out of reality.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u98	You have to conclude, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u99	I'm done, Mr. President. Of course, you know, you know me, I do not wish you any luck in your challenge, and since I do not think that the serious irresponsibility of some people can go unpunished, you have announced that we are going to present a whole series of amendments and, among other things, so that the crime of sedition is excluded in the proposed law of the Socialist Party that is being dealt with in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Tardà, I agree with your argument. I would simply like to transfer some messages to the House. First message: Independence won the elections on 21 December in votes and seats. [[Applauds]] Second message: 155, approved by the Senate, was rejected by the vast majority of Catalan society, and 155, which the Socialist Party, Citizens and the PP supported in the Senate, was defeated in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Of course, Citizens have more seats, they have more votes, it was the first political force in Catalonia, it benefited from the Electoral Law that governs Catalonia and will not govern Catalonia. [[Applauds]] He is not going to rule Catalonia because the independence majority in Parliament is blunt. Indeed, we are a plural, diverse country, expressed in these political forces, a peaceful and civic country, Mr Salvador, and a peaceful country, which during these years has developed its defence of freedom from the strictest pacifism and we are terribly proud of it. And, ladies and gentlemen, I call on the opposition to independence to add 48% of the votes in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] There is no one in Catalonia who adds up to 48 % of the votes! The political forces defending the reform of the Constitution in federal or confederal terms account for about 21 per cent and the political forces defending recentralisation and homogenization account for about 30 per cent. The majority political bloc in Catalonia today continues to be the independence bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on you all November to respect virtually the election result of 21 December and you are not doing so. The maneuvers that the Government is promoting before the Constitutional Court to try to prevent the legitimate investiture of President Puigdemont in the Parliament, responding to the democratic mandate that emerged from the ballot box, are part of the most shameful episodes of Spanish democracy throughout the twentieth century. It is shameful to pervert the will of Catalans expressed in the elections on 21 December. It's intolerable. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Catalan question highlights the limits of democracy in the Spanish State. On all occasions when the institutions of the Spanish State throughout the 20th century have faced the Catalan question, when they have not been able to find democratic formulas to guide the legitimate demands of Catalan society, this authoritarian culture has emerged that denies diversity, the legitimacy of the demands expressed democratically by society and that calls on the Spanish State to what the Economist pointed out, to this degradation of democracy, to what Judges for Democracy had pointed out a few days ago, how the Government is trying to manipulate justice. When the institutions of the State act against the democratic will of Catalan society, democracy for all Spaniards is degraded. And, ladies and gentlemen, we must appeal to the democrats of the whole of Spain, because the struggle for the freedom and democracy of Catalans is also the struggle for democracy and the freedom of all Spaniards. No one can believe that by degrading democracy and putting pressure on justice, Spanish democracy will be healthier and stronger. Here I appeal in particular to the Socialist Party, a political tradition which with Catalanism has shared objectives, but which today seems to renounce that aspiration to democracy in Spain. Mr Lamuà, they are giving up defending Spanish democracy by supporting the People's Party's policy in this area. [[Denials by Mr Lamuà Estañol.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u102	Mr. Campuzano, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u103	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about democracy and freedom, and the Catalans will continue. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. One reads the Republican Left motion and, frankly, has all the logic, appeals to dialogue. That is what he appeals to, to dialogue to solve a political problem. I think it's about time we all recognized it, although, frankly, I'm not very optimistic about the environment. I didn't think it was true and I had to use Twitter to go to the original source to see what was happening. Today the Canal 24 hours, public television - public television no less - has broadcast a live press conference with the following skirt: President of Tabarnia in exile, Albert Boadella analyses the political and social situation in Catalonia. He's been live on Spanish Radio. Is this really serious? Can public television really fall to these levels? [[Applauds]] The environment does not help at all and is a bad sign. It seems that everything is worth it here and, frankly, it is time for the logic of dialogue to be imposed. It should have been clearly imposed two years ago, not in these elections, but in the previous elections. Catalan society in terms of its positions is more or less divided by half, but I would like to remind the Socialist representative that there is a majority, close to 60%, in favour of the right of the Catalan people to decide. [[Applauds]] Therefore, things as they are, the independenceists in the number of votes are not the majority, but yes Catalonia feels a nation, Catalonia feels that there is a political problem and Catalonia would like to decide. It has now been ratified in the last elections accepted by all, and I believe that the Spanish Government cannot say that it has been under unabated conditions. The same numbers have been ratified. There is therefore a political problem. In the meantime, what's going on? That dialogue is denied and only law is offered. Here it seems that you are constitutionalist to enforce the law only when it suits, but when there are some things that are sacred and put at risk - the unity of the homeland, for example - you can skip everything. You can skip the presumption of innocence and you can put temporary prison sentences when no one has yet been sentenced, when it is known to be a political problem. The Minister of Justice can argue that there will be disqualifications even before the sentences; and it is not that the judges say so - that it would seem bad already to me disqualifications before the sentences, where is the presumption of innocence?-, but that already the Minister of Justice warns and announces it. Honestly, we're not doing so well. We're not gonna fix anything like this. As long as the media and society in general chant these attitudes and the 'a for them', the judges will also not have much value in applying the law in their fair and objective terms. Frankly, I do not understand that President Puigdemont cannot be elected, because he is a person who has all his rights. But, having said that, it is clear that the state - and when I say it in a broad way: the majority political forces, the government, this House for the most part, the majority of you, the judges - does not want it to be president. That is a reality and they are united to make that happen and not to be appointed president. I think the Catalan nationalists need to know what the real situation is. In The Economist's index, Spanish democracy has gone down - and, as it goes on, it will go down even further - but that is the reality and the reality has to be explained to people. You have to explain it to people - above all, to your own people from the very first moment - and from there, act. That is why I think this proposal is good; that is why I think it would be good if we approved it today. The only thing he talks about in his literality is to distend, from a bilateral dialogue, and that is the only solution to this real mess. So let's take it as something positive. The State would be wrong if it believed that it could now simply apply the roller and force because it now has the skillet by the handle. At one point he thought he didn't have it anyway, but now he says: I'm strong, I'm here, and I'm going to pass the roller; with that we would come to a solution. I remember the words of the socialist representative, who began by addressing Mr Tardà, saying: Timeo danaos et dona inferentes - I fear the Greeks even when they make gifts - as if saying: Mr Tardà, you are putting it here folded and I do not believe them. For I would tell him to think also of dictum meum pact, my word is reliable. [[Applauds]] We have reached a blockade and can only be unlocked politically. I'd also tell you bold uvat fortune. Here if someone is not brave, takes steps and starts talking seriously about politics to seek political solutions - and I tell both sides - this has no solution. I hope that the state and the majority forces of this House are not thinking of Carthago delenda est - Cartago must be destroyed - because that would lead us to nothing but collective ruin. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u107	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I thought I heard an allusion to Albert Boadella from Mr Aitor Esteban. Hey! I prefer a million times that you interviewed Boadella or that Boadella come out in any performance to the interviews with Otegi and the apologies to Carles Sastre, the murderer Carles Sastre, which are made on TV3, for example. [[applause]] First of all, thanks to Mr Campuzano for recognizing what Mr Tardà has not acknowledged, because I am very surprised that you have raised the Catalan question here in this house and ignore the fact that you have won the elections in Catalonia. I know it must cost you and you'll have assumed some other nightmare. Mr Tardà, in all cordiality, who has won the elections in Catalonia? Say it again with me: "Cu-da-da-do-do-us." Thank you. [[Applauds]] There's one thing you said I was especially upset about. I insist, we have a cordiality in the treatment that I think is perfectly compatible with you insinuating that Catalans have been pointed out as the inner enemy in Spain. Please! The militants, the sympathizers, the positions and even the voters of Citizens or the People's Party or the Socialist Party of Catalonia have been consistently pointed out as the inner enemy on your part when you have held the government and the power springs. [[Applauds]] He says he is annoyed by the presence of the Spanish flag on the balconies, the decision of many Catalans who have taken this, my flag, to the balcony at his house. [[Referring to the Spanish flag behind the Presidency]] Well, I'm so sorry. I'm very upset with your hate flag. Because this isn't a flag of hatred and yours is. [[Referring to the same flag]] [[Applauds]] His flag, the flag that was invented Vicenç Albert Ballester is a flag of hatred. This gentleman signed the depositions he wrote for La Tralla magazine with the acronym Vicime. Do you know what I meant? Aim for the independence of Catalonia and die in Spain. Long live the independence of Catalonia and die Spain. That's the father of his hate flag. That's what bothers me. [[Applauds]] With this motion you come back for your own sake. It is true that they have not reflected in the text what they say later in their speeches, but they are seen the plumer. You know why? Because they could have simply called for dialogue, and this government would have said: let us dialogue, because who is not going to dialogue, right? [[Applauds]] But you say: Based on the outcome of the elections and on the outcome of a democratic mandate that would force a bilateral dialogue. But what country do you live in? That we've won! That the social majority is not independent! But you can't rely on that! Basing on something else Ask for dialogue based on what you want, but not on this lie. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] On the other hand, bilaterality, hey!, which is that no, that is your desire and that is the desire of a large number of Catalans who are not the majority. [[Rumors]] Most Catalans don't want that or think we're a nation, Don Aitor Esteban; you've decided before that Catalonia is a nation because you say so. Well, look, I as a Catalan say no, that the nation is Spain. And we can spend a lot of time arguing but most Catalans think like me, not like you; by the way, I don't get involved in whether or not the Basque Country is a nation. [[Applauds]] Lord Tardà, you, who is often polite, said to the students the other day: 'If you do not captain the republic you will commit a crime of treason on earth'. [[Show a press clipping]] Treason! Oh, my God! On the ground, too. They are always with the earth!, and the blood!, and the Sturm und Drang!, and the vehemence and the passion! Calm down. No one's a traitor. People vote what they want. We are free and equal citizens. His colleague Senator Esquerra Republicana, Mr Estradé, Senator, an entire senator!, has said that Dona Inés Arrimadas is an 'occupancy'. [[Shows a press clipping]] The winner of the Catalan elections is an 'occupying'! Why? Because he doesn't share his ideology. Because you have decided that Catalan is the one who shares your ideology. Your ideology makes you nationalists, separatists, secessionists, whatever you want; even from the left, theoretically, because then you embrace whatever it is. I don't care, but it's not up to you to establish who Catalan is or isn't, and to call another 'busy' is to point out an internal enemy, Mr. Tardà. [[Applauds]] I ask you - let me now turn to the People's Party because it is the party that is in government - to continue to give the intellectual and political battle to nationalism. On dialogue, you know what the results of dialogue have been, what you have tried and what you have achieved in this regard. I won't say anything about it. I must tell you, in relation to the Electoral Law, that it has been presented comically before as the reason why we won by 1 100 000 votes - something that never in all its very long history and often sad Republican Left has succeeded - that why do they have 47 % of the votes and 52 % of the seats? Because the Electoral Law is much better. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: That has nothing to do with it.-Rumores]] No, it has nothing to do with it; it has nothing to do with the fact that in Catalonia the Loreg is applied because we have no electoral legislation of our own... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u108	Mr. Girauta, you have to come to an end. Please do not enter into dialogue, and I will conclude, Mr Girauta, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u109	What are the intentions behind the idea of bilaterality? Privilege; private law. The first party in Catalonia wants no privileges for anyone, not even for the Catalans themselves, because above all we are free and equal citizens before the law, Mr Tardà. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u110	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. I really don't know what Citizens would do without the process. You are the example, as we have seen now, of the pyromaniac firefighter: you say you turn off the fire and all you do is put more wood in the fire. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Beyond party politics, sadness, fear, humiliation, and tiredness, these are the feelings that have invaded the citizens of Catalonia in recent months, I also believe many people in Spain. Sadness, fear and humiliation felt by many on 6 and 7 September in the face of the violation of minority rights in Parliament; sadness, fear and humiliation on 1 October in the face of the brutality of the action of the Ministry of the Interior for which no one has yet assumed responsibility, or on 27 October, with 155 and the DUI, or with the application of abusive and unjust preventive detention to social and political leaders who, as more than a hundred lawyers from all over the State have pointed out, violates the law and is gravely wrong in considering the facts as a crime of rebellion. Many people have felt offended and excluded by a government that has systematically disregarded any dialogue, any negotiation and has outsourced to judges the management of a political problem after years of immobilism. And many people have felt offended and excluded also by the Government of the Generalitat, by a unilateral way that did not take into account, that despised half of Catalan society and that served as an alibi to the Spanish nationalist right - PP and Citizens - to promote an involution of rights and freedoms and a re-centralization that will harm the citizens of all Spain. Because the right never misses the opportunity of a crisis to cut down on social or civil rights. We believe that this motion is positive, we will vote in favour, because it urges the Government to bilateral dialogue with the Government of the Generalitat. It does not speak of independence or disconnection, but of a very basic and very elementary thing, of dialogue between the two Governments. We believe that with this motion we are going to say that the unilateral way is abandoned, a way that has led us not to independence, but to pre-autonomy. Dialogue is the only way and dialogue in democracy is not an option, but an obligation, a dialogue from respect for the will of the citizen, also from respect for the diversity and plurality of the citizenry of Catalonia. But the first step, the priority, is to recover self-government, to recover institutions to leave behind 155. It is, as the Speaker of Parliament said, sewing, reconciling society. To do so, it is necessary to elect a Presidency and a Government that can exercise as such, a Presidency and a Government, not two presidencies and two Governments. It is enough to play with the institutions, because the only depositary of Catalonia's sovereignty is in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Friends of Esquerra Republicana, I think they should say enough to the pressures and blackmails of Junts per Catalunya, to abandon the competition of those who are more independent or purer, because there are problems that they cannot expect: the financing of nurseries or of dependence, the investments that are waiting for many municipalities, the development of guaranteed income of citizenship, the school barracks, the self-government itself. That can't wait. We cannot have a paralyzed Generalitat in the hands of the State Government. Catalonia is governed from Catalonia, from Madrid or from Brussels. [[Applauds]] To the million people at risk of poverty, to the people for whom to live is to survive, what interests him is a real government for a real country that faces its daily problems, and I sincerely believe that President Puigdemont is not in these conditions. It is necessary to restore confidence in the institutions, to legitimize the institutions; a confidence that is broken when the Government calls the Constitutional Court to influence its decisions, when the Council of State is disheartened, when there are judges who make decisions with more political intent than legal rigour, when the Minister Catalá already tells us what the judges will do in a few weeks or a few months. The People's and Citizens' Party, if it wants to save Spain's unity in an authoritarian way, is degrading democracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u112	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u113	It has already been said, said the Intelligence Unit of The Economist, we are lowering points in democratic quality. The implementation of the 155 was, according to the Government, aimed to return to normality through the 21-D elections. You, the government, the PP and Citizens, have a plan for Catalonia, a plan for authoritarian imposition, but you do not have a plan that channels a constitutional crisis through dialogue and negotiation to resolve Catalonia's lace in Spain. On the contrary, with its policy the risk is not to return to normality, but to normalize, to chronicle the conflict. That is the enormous risk, because they have no proposal for Catalonia. We're wrong, but everything's likely to get worse. In other countries, territorial conflicts have been dealt with very differently, with dialogue, with negotiation. Your situation is much better than ours. Take an example of multi-national democracies such as Canada, Belgium, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, which have been able to channel serious national conflicts democratically. There are seven and a half million reasons for dialogue, as many as citizens have Catalonia. Now it is not a matter of disconnecting, but of reconnecting on new bases to remake the territorial pact. We are convinced that this requires a new majority. We do not want to change the state, we want to change the government and throw out those who generate conflicts. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u116	Wait a minute, Mrs. Sanchez-Camacho. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u117	Mr Tardà, I do not know whether your proposal has today been part of cunning, strategy, tactics or simply bad faith. He comes here today, to this House, to the Chamber of Dialogue, to appeal for dialogue and for dialogue when you are the ones who have truly failed to fulfil the basis of this country's consensus and dialogue by trampling on the rights of parliamentarians and the opposition on 6 and 7 September, violating the laws, creating a parallel and simultaneous legality to the law that is correct and legal, which is that of our country. You cannot come to give lessons of dialogue when what you have done permanently has been a coup d'état to law, democracy, institutions and history. [[Applauds]] Don't give us any lessons in dialogue. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, you come here today to talk to us about dialogue while you are negotiating, in that romerie that you are going to Brussels day and day too, to create a council of the republic, to amend the law of the Presidency and to agree with the UPC, which want to destroy our democratic system, violate the laws and continue to carry out that coup d'état. Don't deceive us, Mr Tardà, you don't want real dialogue; you want to be right in the breach of the laws and in the creation of that republic which is only for you, it's not for all Catalans and, of course, it's never going to be possible or real or in force. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, here if anyone has guaranteed legality it has been the People's Party Government; Mariano Rajoy has done so, guaranteeing our framework of self-government, guaranteeing the status that you have laminated, applying Article 155 of the Constitution, which has allowed Catalonia to get out of the paralysis in which you left it, because you have been governing for years for and for your interests in state structures and not to solve the real problems of Catalans. We have, we have taken out two thousand places of teachers, we have approved more than one hundred agreements, we have paid the municipalities. Catalonia needs a government, a government of someone who is not fled, who does not have cases pending with the justice system and who is not a coward who flees to Brussels in order not to face the state and the justice system. That's what Catalans need, Mr. Tardà. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Tardà, come here with Mr Campuzano, who are your government partners. By the way, 3 percent partners. They don't talk about corruption there. Wasn't that republic to banish corruption? There they have them, the 3 percent heirs, of the Palau case and of those who have been really stealing from Catalan society; there are their partners. [[Applauds]] Mr. Tardà, I'll tell you something else. If anyone has ensured that no fraudulent investment is made, outside the law, it is this Government with Article 161, with the Constitution in hand, which is where democracy is born, where freedom is born; the law makes us equal and makes us possible in democracy. With that article 161, we have led to challenge that investiture, because it was a looting of hair, a fraud that a person who is fleeing wants to rule Catalonia from Brussels, making the Parliament of Catalonia and the Palau de la Generalitat a management. Mr. Tardà, is that what you want? Is that what you're talking about? If you have said this: if we have to sacrifice Mr Puigdemont, let us sacrifice him and put in a real and effective government. It's the only thing I agree with you about. And I add to that: that you comply with the law and that you work to solve the problems of Catalans. [[Applauds]] In addition, Mr Tardà, I will tell you something else and I will also tell the representative of Citizens. Mr Girauta, we cannot agree more with everything you said, in 99%. Our land is a land of division, of permanent hatred, where we are persecuted and accused; we are made to live in a very sad way in our own land. I am as Catalan as you, Mr Tardà, but also more Spanish than you, and that is precisely why I have the same rights throughout Spain to feel Catalan and Spanish, and not to violate my rights. Therefore, I do not want to continue living in victimism, in the hatred that you have generated, in the fracture that you have generated, in the impoverishment of my land by going out of business every day because you do not want to be in the legal insecurity in which you are. But, Mr Girauta, I would tell you only one thing - and with that end -: it is true that you have won - and I respect it, and I recognize it and so it is - but if you have won, you can also get Catalonia out of this paralysis. Why don't you show up for the investiture? Why don't you, as Mr Rivera said to the People's Party: let Rajoy show up, even if it's to lose? You have spoken of 25%, but do not hide in the Electoral Law, Mr Girauta, because Mr Rajoy drew 30% and you agreed with the PSOE so that the party that had won the elections would not rule in this country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr. Girauta, let's look for what unites us and act responsibly. Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue is not monologue, dialogue is not imposition, dialogue is not just accepting what you want. Machado said the dialogue was first to ask and then to listen, always. You don't listen. Did you hear the non-democratic of this House in April 2014 when they were told that they had no competence to hold a referendum? They did not listen to that dialogue or to the sovereignty of this House. Did you hear later, when the Senate told you that the application of 155 was the framework for recovering our Government? You did not listen, you do not listen to democracy, you just want to impose your word. Where's your dialogue, Mr. Tardà? Where was the president we had, the former president, at the presidents' conference? Absent, without defending the interests of Catalans. Where were you when you were told to come here in April to defend the independence project? He didn't come because he wasn't going to be right. That's the dialogue you like. Where are you in the Commission for the modernisation of the autonomous state? They're not. The real dialogue to assess the state of autonomy and to guarantee the future of all Spaniards is here, in the cathedral, in the temple of dialogue, but you do not like it, ladies and gentlemen. That is why your dialogue is false, Mr Tardà, absolutely false. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u118	Your Honor, you've got to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u119	I'm done with a few words, it's all over. I haven't said it, others have said it, it says it up to Mr. Jové's moleskine. It's all over. The Catalans are tired of their anti-democratic process.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u120	In conclusion, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u121	The rest of the Spaniards are sick of this process. Really, we're gonna build a project together. There will always be the People's Party. The dialogue will be infinite. As a letter I would like to recall now - since you started your speech with a letter from Mr Junqueras - desolation causes the megalomania and personal ambition of some to lead us to the painful moments that we are living now. Josep Tarradellas, April 16, 1981. Take him seriously and do not stand in partisanship and personalism and allow Catalonia to have a legitimate government of all, for all and within the framework of law and democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u122	You've finished your shift, Mrs. Sánchez-Camacho. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I ask Mr Tardà i Coma whether his group accepts the amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u123	Mr. President, we don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u124	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken to ensure the employability of young people and quality in their recruitment and working conditions. [[File number 173/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u125	We continue with the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to ensure the employability of young people and the quality of their employment and working conditions. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u126	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group brings to this plenary a series of measures to ensure the employability of young people in this country and the quality of their employment and working conditions. Young people with different life projects but with a common denominator: uncertainty and fear of claiming their rights. The youth employment model of this Government has implications for personal frustration, the inability to form a future plan, the low birth rate and also the sustainability of pensions. But today I am going to avoid entering into a data war; we know that this government is able to use up the good data... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u127	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u128	...of socialist pension governments to hide their mismanagement. But this is not the subject of today. To locate us, I will tell you that there is 38% youth unemployment, that one in two unemployed young people have been unemployed for over a year without finding a job, and that half of those who find them are overqualified. One, two, twenty, the data you want, everyone believes the frustrating reality of the Spanish youth but, what does it matter, if this government is unable to see what is really going on. They do not see it because this government of suspension takes pride in its statistical cut, its copy and glue, and traps data without recognizing that the European Commission itself warns that the young Spaniards abandon the search for employment - 120 000 in the last quarter - or emigrate, but they do not find a job in condition. Therefore, it may be useful to do the exercise of calling things by their name today. Sometimes, if we repeat the words, we empty them of meaning; the meaning does not correspond to the signifier. So let's start a translator today so that this government understands what's going on; the translator'reality of young people versus the government of Spain'. [[The lady]] Let's put the concept of 'precarity', which you encourage, in this translator. Precarity is temporality, as well as record. Since data are available, there has never been so much time between young people; 92% of contracts today are temporary. It is also partial, because almost three out of ten contracts are partial, and if you are a woman and young prepare yourself, because you have seven more points of chance that in the stubble of this labour market you will be touched by unwanted partial work. It is also exploitation that young people with sufficient training enter the labour market as free workers without social protection. This is what we want to put an end to today's proposal. In addition, in this translator we will also put the measures that you, from the People's Group, put on the table. They're talking about improvement in brokering. Let's pass the translator and what's the reality? They have cut 40 % in active employment policies and have also cut the number of counsellors. They're talking about hiring incentives. Let's pass the translator. What does that mean? That social security bonuses for contracts are not able to create quality jobs, but they do end up with the Social Security hut. And they talk about promoting entrepreneurship. Let's go through the translator again and find ourselves a row of bogus self-employed without control and without labor rights. With the proposal that we are bringing here today to debate, we want to end one more thing, with the normalization of this disaster. They have anaesthetized young people by telling them that this is what there is and that like lentils, you take it or leave it; and this is false, because it is not normal that after completing a training contract no young person is ever hired. Sorry, according to the government, to a parliamentary question from the socialists, we were recognized a record number: from August 2014 to April 2017 thirty-four training contracts became indefinite; thirty-four contracts in three years. It is not normal, of course, that we have to plan a life with wages less than 900 euros and, above all, thank them. Hence these proposals that we are putting forward today; concrete proposals within a shock plan for youth employment within the framework of the social dialogue, where the objective is very clear: quality employment and decent wages for young people. We want to put an end to the abuse of non-work practices, encourage the relay contract and partial retirement at the age of sixty-one, and all this by using the EUR 3200 million that is raining on us from Europe and that we do want to spend on employment for young people. We want to go further with this initiative. It is true that we all know here that five months ago a plan was signed with the social partners; but five months later I ask this government: Where is this plan? Why didn't they start it? Perhaps because the People's and Citizens' Party, which is also behind it, does not agree on how to call the measures they have agreed: whether to supplement youth, whether to grant youth. Let's call it what it is: doped contract. And you know why? Because this country cannot be allowed from the government to supply cheap labour to businesses, or if they do not explain why they will leave 96% of young Spanish people without any help with this measure. Therefore, welcome to the social dialogue, but take advantage to implement also these more ambitious measures that we present to you today. I told them that we have three times as much youth unemployment as the rest of the European countries. Do not prove today that it is because this Government is also the triple of incapable. We have funds up to $3.2 billion. We have this serious and concrete proposal which extends its agreements. We have young people waiting for you to trust them and expect a work model to trust their lives. We are only asking you today to put an end to your employment policy, which is entirely for young people, and ultimately to put an end to the failure of this government's labour policy with young people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña Camarero. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Barandiaran Benito spoke by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u130	Good afternoon again, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Young job, no more or less. Last Tuesday, the 4th Youth Plan was approved by the Basque Governing Council in Euskadi. It has different axes: employment, housing, education, health, social action and equality, participation and consumption, culture, leisure, sport and several other issues, but the important thing is that the evaluation and analysis it does is particular, that of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but it is also an analysis that allows to offer some good data, others not so much and some even bad. Let me give you some of them. The population has fallen considerably from sixteen to twenty-nine years, and the foreign population has fallen even further. The average age of motherhood has risen to 31.8 years. The activity rate among 16- and 29-year-olds is 47.7%, i.e. almost 48% of young people are working or working, and the employment rate is 40%, although only half of them work in the field for which they have been trained. The rate of youth unemployment has fallen substantially and falls to less than 20% at present in Euskadi, although its average salary is around 1000 euros. These and other data are reflected in this study and form a sort of broad picture of a diagnosis of the situation of the young population, it is true that of a specific community such as Euskadi, but the main thing of all this - what I would like to highlight - are two things, and that there has been an initiative that aims to offer an integral overview of the situation of the youth in Euskadi - and as such is described in Euskadi, as a comprehensive plan for youth - and there is also a clear correlation between certain activity of the Administration, in this case in the field of employment, the Lanbide, and the data, which are improveable, but better than those that the general situation of the State offers in the field of youth employment. This reference to a specific area and the existence of a specific plan in Euskadi comes to mind, because my group has tabled amendments to the motion made by the Socialist Party trying to highlight certain elements that we think are of the utmost importance in the treatment of a shock plan for youth employment. The first is subsidiarity. We intend to bring problem solving closer to its managers. There is a different pathology in one autonomous community than in another, and that is why it is desirable to respect the areas of active employment policies, especially where they have been effective. This also implies the recognition that where there has been a policy of its own in the context of an autonomous community that has been able to do so - Euskadi - that it wanted to do so, that it was convinced to do so, it has proved effective. The second is specificity. Employment policies cannot be the same where the characteristics of problems are not the same. This has also led us to make a concrete offer in our amendments, which is the need to contemplate not only dual training, but dual university training. In Euskadi, about 50% of the population seeking access to work has a higher degree and for this it requires not only specific treatment, not only recognition of this situation, but also the approach of a work area, i.e. work from a specific area. The third is employability. Employability as such is a phenomenon that does not mean the same in all places, but has been treated equally in the field of regulation. We intend to bring our own experience closer to each area and perhaps - I am looking at Mr Cañamero, who I have before us, who has often called for the existence of a specific area for the problems that exist there - they could contemplate work, employability, activity in training, active employment policies in a different way from what is being proposed by the general rules, as we intend to do on other different issues in Euskadi. In that regard, we told them that the initiative seems interesting to us. We have tabled some amendments; some of them have already been accepted, assumed in advance - we thank you - and we therefore put our particular vote to them. But let me finish, since these speeches have gone in sentences today, with one related to the field of youth employment shock policies but which also applies to the previous intervention in relation to problems that have been addressed in the previous point and in others in this House. They remembered ancient phrases, for let me repeat one to them: It is not the one who comes late, for it is so much the delay that hope becomes despair. It's good for young jobs, it's good for Catalonia, it's good for anything else. This phrase is from La Dorotea, from Lope de Vega, 1632. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran Benito. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u132	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The labour market in Spain is probably the biggest failure of bipartisanism in the last forty years. Today, ten years after the crisis began, we still have the second highest unemployment rate in the European Union and the second highest rate of temporaryity in the European Union. Among young people - today the motion goes to young people - the situation is particularly dramatic. We have a million young people unemployed and the employment of those who are lucky enough to have it is precarious. The vast majority of contracts signed by young people, those who are not unemployed, are contracts of less than a week. We have a labor regulation in Spain that is basically anti-young, but of that the Socialist Party gentlemen do not talk, they prefer to continue with the same type of labor regulation that over the last forty years has led us to these same equilibriums that we have now, because it is not the first time that we have these rates of temporality nor is it the first time that we have these rates of unemployment. It is a failed system for forty years, it is the same failed system that defends duality, that defends temporality, in which when a crisis comes it is the young people who pay it because they are systematically expelled from the labour market because they have no alternative, because, as I say, we have anti-young regulation in Spain. I will tell you very clearly: I think - and I think very honestly - that anyone who does not have a project for the future of employment in our country will not be able to govern Spain. And you don't have it, Socialist Party gentlemen, and neither do you, People's Party gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They could look a little bit more at other countries. They could, for example, look at France, where Mr Macron implemented a modernizing labour reform to reduce duality; he did it first with Hollande and now he has just done another. They could, perhaps, look at Italy, at Renzi - who was from his own political family, or at least in 2014 - who has done three reforms and at Portugal, who has done up to four. But in this country, the People's Party, despite having the most anomalous labour market in Europe, has only made a reform that basically makes it possible to make jobs precarious. I will quickly comment on the Socialist Party's proposal, which is a reform of the Youth Guarantee. I fully share the Socialist Party's diagnosis of the failure of the European Youth Guarantee of the People's Party. Basically, Spain had and continues to have almost one third of the young unemployed throughout Europe and that is why it was responsible for almost one third of the Youth Guarantee funds, nearly 3 billion for four or five years during the guarantee period. What happened? That they have thrown away the Youth Guarantee money every year instead of investing it in young people to offer them opportunities, because they have no ideas, because they do not worry about reforming anything and because they believe that the labour market we have is already well. Well, it has been a huge failure and, therefore, it must be reformed, I agree; but, Socialist Party gentlemen, what I would suggest to you is - I understand that you have to justify the work you are doing here - that, if you do not have better ideas than making diagnoses, reports and evaluations, you join the proposal that already exists. Summaries. It is a proposal that we have signed with the People's Party - I have tabled it with Mrs Báñez - and it is called an orange complement, which is a complement that comes out at zero cost to the Spaniards. Why? Because it is financed by the European Youth Guarantee, which has been throwing away the People's Party all these years. [[Applauds]] On top of that, you don't have to think, you just have to vote yes and allow 500 000 young people, 500 000 young people! they can benefit from aid which is also accompanied by training. You just have to join in, Socialist Party gentlemen, you don't have to think much more. I ask you to support the budget because it also brings other social measures; I do not know - and I would like to be explained to me by the spokesman who presented the initiative - which of the social measures that the budget does not like, apart from the orange supplement that could benefit half a million young people. The lowering of taxes on milleurists? Another extension of paternity permits to ensure equal opportunities for men and women? Does the training check really serve the training policies in this country, with the enormous problems of training and unemployment that we have? As I said, there is no alternative work project, it is not the work of the Socialist Party. We have proposed an amendment - and I conclude with this, Madam President - to incorporate the salary supplement which, by the way, was incorporated on page 32 of the agreement that I negotiated with your party myself. Therefore, as you do not like to give prizes to others, if you really care about young people, approve what you have already signed and add to the salary supplement. Worry about the young a little bit more and a little less about the short-term and the negotiation. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, we will not support the measure unless you accept our proposal for wage supplementation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán Monés. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hoyo Juliá.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u134	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the proposing group for the opportunity to open this debate because, beyond the intention with which it arises and the fact that the Socialist Party is experiencing a double paradox that I will then discuss, youth employment is one of the main axes of the Government's political action and one of the permanent concerns of my parliamentary group. What will you tell me, Mrs Peña, when I live in my environment, if my generation suffers this problem! I have friends who are having a very bad time, who have not yet found a job and who are desperately looking for it because they want to be independent and their economic freedom does not allow it. But, fortunately, I also have friends who have found employment or who have decided to undertake and tell me how they have benefited from the flat rate of 50 euros or how they will benefit from the measures adopted in the new law on self-employed people. The Socialist spokesman said at the beginning of her speech that she wanted to avoid entering a data war, and I understand that because if we enter a data war the Socialist Party loses by squandering. The youth unemployment rate has fallen almost 21 points in Spain since the recovery began, specifically 20.9 points. A new job has been found for 200,000 young people, the same number of young people, 200 000, who lost their jobs in the last phase of the socialist government from 2008 to 2011. [[Applauds]] According to Eurostat data, employment among young people is growing in Spain at a rate five times higher than the European average. Very different is the figure you generated, since, of two young Europeans who went to unemployment, one did so in Spain. As for temporality, I mean it's coming down. There are 50% more conversions from temporary to indefinite contracts than in 2011. All this data is not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, but the result of a job well done and measures such as labour reform, the entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy, the Youth Guarantee or the boost of dual vocational training which is, yes, producing good results; results, as the minister says, hopeful, but which do not satisfy us. A great deal remains to be done, so the commitment of this parliamentary group to continue working on this issue. You have tabled a motion with four points. The first three raise issues that are already being addressed by the Government. An evaluation of the entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy is already being carried out, a new entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy is already being developed - the Minister announced -, the 2018-2021 strategy, and those annual reports on youth employment that you are asking for are already being done since 2015. In the fourth point, you call for a youth employment shock plan with measures very similar to the youth employment shock plan that was signed on September 28, 2017 between the ministry, the unions and the employer. You copy that shock plan, that is, you do it in a much more generalistic way and obviating some measures that we consider important, such as a youth guarantee bonus that will benefit young people enrolled in the Youth Guarantee who sign a training and learning contract. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to demonstrating that the PSOE is suffering from the writer's crisis, that in the face of the powerlessness of generating ideas all it does is copy, the PSOE lives in a double paradox. On the one hand, the paradox of inaction, because there is no greater exercise of political irresponsibility than the adoption of general State budgets that would benefit many and many young people; and on the other hand, the crisis of the convert, the paradox of the convert, since they make employment a dogma of their political action, precisely with the same tesón and with the same emphasis as when they destroyed it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, before your world of paradoxes and uncertainties you have a chance; the possibility of turning opportunism into an opportunity, so propose it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs Hoyo Juliá. I have the floor on behalf of the Joint Group, Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. After listening to the most relevant political forces in this country, I have heard again the usual, the one and you more, and some party that has been arrogated to put color to one of the solution proposals, to one of the great challenges this country has. If I was young and I was following this debate, I would really get my hands on it. In any case, I have to tell you that the Navarro People's Union is going to vote in favour of this motion because we are in favour of evaluating any strategy that will be taken especially with regard to entrepreneurship and youth employment, because we are in favour of adapting any recommendation that comes with regard to youth in the European Union, and because we want to deepen much more in a clash plan in a way that is part of the social dialogue, as proposed in the amendment by the Basque Group, with all the autonomous communities and therefore with the Navarra Forum Community. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go on, Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of state because in the current terms of youth unemployment we are facing a country with no future. We are in favour - I insist - of a battery of actions that have to do with the empowerment of dual vocational training and of intelligence centres of universities and companies to train young people in the employment of the future, with the development of employment contracts and the tax and social security incentives to promote, of course, the great scourge that this country has, among many other things, with youth unemployment in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Alli Martínez. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. A few days ago I was told a story that repeats a lot. A newly licensed woman, with honorary plates, obtains an eight-hour day contract in an average writing, on weekends available to the company, of course, charging the huge amount of 300 euros gross per month. There are many Marys and many equal stories and, despite what the spokesman of the People's Group has said, there is a fact that tells everything. In 2017, only 19% of young people have been able to emancipate and most of the income for a quarter of them comes from their parents. I will not talk about unemployment, because it has already been mentioned here, but the X-ray of youth employment has very strong words. When we talk about youth employment, we are also talking about extracurricular practices, non-work practices in companies, programs of fellows that in many cases become new forms of exploitation because they encourage, among other things, the replacement of other workers, the covering of job losses of workers, the fact that in many cases there is neither guardian nor training, the training of a fellow to the next fellow who will replace him, the finding of companies with 60% of fellows or the chaining of scholarships without any social security contribution. In short, the radiography of youth employment has strong names: unemployment, temporaryity, low wages, precariousness and in many cases exile. We will support this motion or anyone who comes forward to help youth employment, but instead of approving this motion, we would like much more if a law or decree-law were passed, because we already know the case that the People's Party is going to make to this motion. They are too busy in their particular war with Citizens and, therefore, I suppose they will not pay too much attention. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví Roda. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the motion defended by the Socialist Group is appropriate. We must insist on transparency and evaluation in policies to combat youth unemployment by taking advantage of the resources of the Youth Guarantee, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Spain is not using the resources of the Youth Guarantee today to tackle the structural problems that explain the reality of youth unemployment. Even the proposal which Mr Roldán enthusiastically defends, which is the wage supplement for the recruitment of young people, is more than the same, is to subsidise employment. What explains youth unemployment is not the inadequacy of subsidies for job creation, but the fundamental problems of our educational system: premature abandonment of the school system, school failure, lack of transition from the education world to the world of work, absence of second- chance mechanisms, policies of professional re-training of these young people, etc. We dedicate very few resources from the Youth Guarantee to these policies that are managed by the autonomous communities and we concentrate these resources on the social security bonuses managed by SEPE, the General Administration of the State, and also now they want more subsidies through this so-called wage guarantee. We're wrong. We must invest the resources of the Youth Guarantee that Europe has sent us in those structural elements that explain youth unemployment. In all economies, youth unemployment more or less doubles overall unemployment. In an economy with high unemployment there is a high rate of youth unemployment, and those economies which have a greater problem of youth unemployment, where the youth unemployment rate is more than twice the overall unemployment rate, have problems with the transition from school to the labour market and the return of the labour market to school. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, rather than insisting on spending on grants and bonuses, let us be able, for example, to ensure that the Bertelsmann Foundation's proposal for a contract for dual vocational training is effective. That is where we have travelled in this area and we can begin to improve in the fight against youth unemployment, because we focus on one point: facilitating the work experience of those young people who are studying vocational training. There we go. [[Rumors]] I'm done, Madam President. With regard to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's initiative, we will support it, with the exception of affirming that in what it refers to the non-working practices of its motion we do not share its thesis of repealing those royal decrees, some of which were adopted in times of the Socialist Party. We believe that they should be reformed, but not repealed. In any case, they're going to count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Campuzano i Canadés. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Ms. Franco Carmona has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u144	Thank you, President. With more than 40%, we are the second country in the European Union with the youngest unemployed; only Greece wins us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u145	Congresswoman, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, please, a little silence. I think there are almost more Members of Parliament standing than sitting in the seats. We are about to end, so I would ask you for a little silence so that you can listen to the Member who is speaking. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mrs. Franco.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u146	Thank you. We are in this situation because, despite the economic recovery that the Government proudly announces, the People's Party has no more project for our youth than that of waste jobs, unemployment and emigration. Ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind that a country which has almost half of its unemployed young people is a country which has no plan for the future and therefore a country without hope. The initiative presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group has an impact on the famous Youth Guarantee Programme. Well, last year the Commissioner for Employment of the European Union, as well as the European Court of Auditors, warned of the failure of the Youth Guarantee in Spain. Only 10.7% of potential beneficiaries were registered and, of these, only 37.5% were working within six months of participating in the programme. Knowing all this, all the People's Party has been able to do is announce a salary supplement of €430 per month for young people enrolled in the Youth Guarantee. Do you know where this initiative comes from? Of the 'orange' salary supplement of Citizens. Or, which is the same, a wage subsidy for companies of 430 euros per month per young person hired. All this so that in the end they would do absolutely nothing and above all we do not know what happened with the EUR 500 million that were budgeted last year for the young unemployed. Mrs Peña, from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can very much welcome your initiative. When the Socialist Party presents initiatives different from those of supporting a corrupt government and without a project for the future for our country as is the current government of the People's Party, we can agree, as we did on 12 September, when a motion was adopted, despite the abstention of Citizens, who presented my group for which the Congress requested the realization and publication - I would like to highlight the publication because we well know that the Government is given to hide the reports that it does not like, for example the Progress report - from a thorough evaluation of the implementation of the Youth Guarantee programme; and secondly, consultation and negotiation with social actors to, within the framework of the Delegated Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the National Youth Guarantee System, reform it, establishing subsidies and social bonuses for the beneficiaries, improving training actions. We are very pleased that you are insisting on this motion today. We believe that we can do more and that the motion we put forward will go ahead and press the Government to do so. In this initiative you present, you call for the repeal of Royal Decree 1543/2011, which regulates non-working practices in companies. We have to remember that it was precisely the Socialist Party who authored this royal decree, and it is truly paradoxical that today the PSOE is asking the PP to repeal its own initiative and to ask it to do so by means of a motion which, as you know, is not binding. Well, we, to help you, invite you to support our proposed law which is indeed binding on the regulation of external university practices and finally leave the toasts to the sun. What is really important to put an end to youth insecurity is to leave precarious proposals, such as the reduction of layoffs or the encouragement of fake self-employed people who make businesses such as Deliveroo with their riders. Measures must be taken for stable and high-quality employment, such as rejuvenation of staff and promotion of the relay contract in those jobs that are vacant by retirement, but not as a simple training programme, as the Socialist Party is proposing today on its own initiative, but on the same conditions as the person who retires, exactly the same conditions. I have worked as a trainer for unemployed young people and I assure you that they do not know what it is to put you in front of your students and to know that the training you are giving them will serve them absolutely nothing because the Government of your country has no project for its young people. I assure you, they don't know. I assure you, they don't know what it's like to ask your students to do a two-day entrepreneurship project and tell them after that it won't do them any good because you know they don't have any chance of investing or any future. I assure you, you don't know how disheartening that is. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Finally, I want to stress one thing. Without projects for youth we are absolutely lost because our young people are the only future that this country has. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco Carmona. Mrs Peña Camarero, for the sole purpose of saying whether or not you accept the amendments tabled, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u148	We have reached agreement on the amendment by the Basque Group and we have moved the document to the consideration of the rest of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u150	We now turn to the item on the agenda for the request by the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Esquerra Republicana, for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair. For the defence of the request submitted by your group, first of all, intervenes by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Valido Pérez. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u151	President, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 August 2008, a chain of errors caused one of the worst tragedies in Spanish civil aviation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u152	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u153	150 people died, 18 survived with sequels and hundreds lost part of their hearts. Nothing has been the same for them since then. Today we are joined by some members of the JK5022 Flight Affected Association and its president, Pilar Vera. [[Applauds]] On behalf of our confederal group, we wish to acknowledge their work during all these years. Thank you very much. Why this Committee of Inquiry? Why now and why is it necessary? This Commission of Inquiry is necessary because the mechanisms of the State have been grossly failed. Operational security is an obligation in which the Spanish State has full competence, and almost ten years later nothing has changed in the system that prevents the mistakes that caused this catastrophe from being made today. That nothing has changed poses a serious danger to the 250 million passengers who registered our airports in 2017 and a vulnerability that we particularly suffer from people living in the archipelagos. As a canary I am, I know him well, and the plane is for us almost the only way to connect with the outside. But it is also a serious danger to the political, social, economic and democratic confidence of our country's institutions. The crash aircraft had an airworthiness certificate that expired on 22 July 2008. The Spanair company obtained the extension of the licence without inspection for another month, by August 22, and on the 20th the plane crashed. The Commission for Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents, known as the Ciaiac, under the Ministry of Development, prepared the official report on the accident. It notes that the revocation of the airworthiness certificate was submitted shortly before, in accordance with the procedures at that time and, while acknowledging this in the report, Ciaiac makes no recommendation on this important issue. The Official College of Commercial Aviation Pilots, in its independent evaluation of the Ciaiac report, found that it was ineffective, that it lacked rigour and that it did not even establish why the aircraft's warning system that could have prevented the accident failed. Moreover, two years later from the accident, in 2010, ICAO, which is an agency dependent on the United Nations.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u154	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u155	... carried out an audit of the Spanish civil aviation system and decreed 21 black security points, many of them related to failures in the certification, supervision and training of the members of the Ciaiac. Well, far from improving this body, its budget has stagnated since 2012. Supposedly, the Ciaiac report should have met its objective of pointing out and correcting the causes. If they are hidden or not pointed out, as was the case in this case of the accident, it is impossible that they can be corrected. The State has not corrected only one of the causes of this strategy, it has had to be the association of the affected the engine of a huge work inside and outside Spain to avoid the chaos of the past and future victims in the treatment that they themselves suffered after the accident. It is time for the members of the association to stop doing our work and let us, the members of this House, pick up the witness to move forward, investigate and clarify the cases rigorously. We're playing with people's lives. To the PP, the PSOE and the Citizens I remind them to keep in mind that their comrades of more than seventy canarian municipalities, of the seven island cabildos, of the Autonomous Parliament of the Canary Islands, of the Assembly of Madrid and of the Cortes de Castilla y León support the creation of this commission in the Congress of Deputies. We propose this Committee of Inquiry with the task of achieving a more effective, more reliable, more secure air system that serves to prevent future tragedies, ladies and gentlemen, for the common good and for air safety in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u156	Thank you very much. For the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u157	How much frustration, how much anxiety, how much defencelessness for almost ten years to get here a proposal that should have been implemented long ago! I was thinking about it while I was writing this speech and I was seeing a song by Javier Krahe, who disappeared more than two years ago, a fantastic song called Woe Democracy! It has a stanza that comes perfect for us: I like you, democracy, because you are as absent. Not only in previous interventions have we seen the absence in the presence of problems that we would have to worry about and occupy as now, in which those affected by flight JK5022 have filled these years of dignity, of perseverance. That's why we're here. We would have had to have been long before, but now we are here, with you in the heart, because catastrophes are being talked about for a few days, even some are now talking about it or about more important issues, I don't know, but then you forget, and an air catastrophe, the most serious up to today, that has generated uncertainty and suffering among many families, has not served to change things. [[Applauds]] There are other countries - because that of 'inventing, inventing' them, better than not - that have invented things that years ago should have been implemented. There are people here who have studied in the United States, who have come back with very special economic ideas but why haven't they come to us with the independent agency that the United States has on this subject? There is an independent agency that is an example; it is not an example the official commission of inquiry that did what it did not have to do, because it did it late and wrong. There is a very important aspect, because we talk about people and here you talk about Spain and your people and many of you, no doubt, say it with conviction. Many Spaniards died, including seventy citizens of the Canary Islands, far away in the distance but close to our hearts. Gioconda Belli says: Solidarity is the tenderness of peoples. This Congress must have more tenderness and solidarity. That is why I welcome one thing that you have achieved today, and perhaps you do not know it: we had a Commission of Inquiry into Alvia and today it has gone out of its way. We asked, how does this Commission not work? Today, a first victory has broken loose; let them go home with a second victory, let this Committee of Inquiry be a fact. Thank you very much. Canaries in the heart. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, first of all, has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night to everyone and everyone. Many years have passed since we had to attend the terrible misfortune of 154 deaths, 18 people with their life destroyed, tremendous consequences for the many people who are still fighting today in the association of those affected by this accident, to conclude the following. To the first drama is added a certainty that we had many: in the end the blame is certain that it is of the dead. This is indeed the case, it is the fault of the dead pilots. And, in this process, at the end of the day, what has happened is that we have not got to the bottom of the matter; people affected by this accident have been mistreated, treating them as if they had suffered a road accident; the oral trial has been denied and, at the end, we are forced to do something that is being done here today: to urge a Commission of Inquiry that is necessary because we have shown that we have not had what it takes to get to the bottom of this issue. Therefore, she knows the president and her board of directors that we have always appreciated since the most absolute respect and silence not to politically contaminate things, but now it is not about that but about being up to it. It is not possible that an accident of this nature does not have at least the effort to get to the bottom of the issue and to generate a set of consequences and indications that serve to prevent, prevent and protect people, who are ultimately the ones who suffer the consequences. We are confident that this request for a Committee of Inquiry will be successful and we congratulate the two groups that have called for it to be achieved. Good night.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u160	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Pilar and members of the association, I take emotion today, joy but also sadness. The first time they entered Congress was with me, in 2009, many of the survivors still came with crutches and with an immense task: to know what happened, that it did not happen again and, above all, that the protocol of care for the victims - what they lived that day - did not happen again; not for you, but for no one to live it again. We had the appearances in the Commission and I saw myself, with a PSOE and a PP that at the time they didn't want to know, that they thought it was a judicial issue, that it was a criminal code issue or that it was an insurance company issue. But that wasn't, that wasn't. There was no way to process a Commission of Inquiry. A year ago, in the Senate, Coalition Canaria submitted the request to create the Commission of Inquiry and was only supported by Podemos and Esquerra in the Commission of Promotion. I'm glad today, but I'm sorry because there are people who were with me almost ten years ago who can't see this today. We must recognise that this association has a merit not only in this country, that we already have a protocol - precisely from the time when the President of Congress was Minister of Development, after having adopted the European regulation - but at international and European level, being a reference for those protocols of care for victims, in order to protect them from those vulture lawyers who go at that time, but, above all, so that the victims know that from that moment on there is coordination between the members and the institutions. Since I have run out of time - I have five seconds left - I just want to tell you that I will be on that Commission, that we will work to ensure that this documentary that was made can answer why, response that did not give the judgments neither the investigators nor the institutions, but that remained there, in memory. Also for the history of parents, children, orphans, husbands, wives, grandchildren, that there was a truth and that truth has to be made public. We will also work to ensure that the laws of this country and European laws have inspection and control mechanisms so that they do not happen again. That is my commitment for ten years and I hope that in a year we can reach those conclusions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u163	I will speak briefly, Madam President, from the seat. We have only one minute since it seemed to us that it was only fair that most of the time Members of Canarian origin should have it. We make our most of the arguments used by the proposing groups. I just want to add that there is a report from the Sepla, from the pilot union, which qualifies the research that was done in its moment of simple and superficial and, moreover - I repeat, since other spokesmen have said this before - there is the magnificent work of the association of the victims. These would be more than sufficient grounds to delve into a subject that seems to be of justice. Thank you, President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u165	Madam President, I announce from my seat my group's vote in favour of the creation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the accident of the JK-5022 flight from Spanair on 20 August 2008, which had to fly between Madrid and Gran Canaria, destroyed 154 lives. It was the most deadly air disaster in Western Europe since the Lockerbie bombing. It was Spain's most dead accident in the last 25 years since the Avianca accident, also in Barajas. In short, the magnitude of the tragedy makes us have to take it very seriously. When in another serious accident with many fatal victims, that of Angrois, Citizens voted in plenary in favour of the creation of a Commission of Inquiry, we did so by pointing out a number of preventions and recommendations that, in our view, should be taken into account. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u168	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please take your seats. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u169	As for prevention, we prevent the use of the victims' pain; we prevent against their partisan use to attack the adversary; we prevent against possible strategies of institutional wear and tear; and we prevent against the danger of retrospective fallacy, which makes us believe, when an accident occurs, that all the causes were obvious and predictable beforehand. We then made a number of recommendations. We said that the Commission that was to be set up should all go with neutrality, with an open mind and without prejudice. Ladies and gentlemen, the various parliamentary groups have expressed their decision to support this Committee of Inquiry. Moreover, in a very significant way, the party that was in the government when the accident occurred has said that it will also support it. We, of course, will also support it. In this way, we say that we will participate in it without prejudice, with the will to work constructively and with the desire to reach relevant conclusions that will, where appropriate, improve safety in air transport. So the less we talk here today, the better. Let us leave it to the neutral work of the Commission. In this connection, we only want to take advantage of the fact that, from Citizens, we will be presenting an initiative that will examine the feasibility of setting up a unified commission for the investigation of accidents, whether air, sea or land. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Franquis Vera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech logically by thanking Pilar, Federico and the other members of the JK-5022 accident association directive for their work, effort and tenacity. I am aware of the enormous work they have done in recent years, sometimes in solitude, sometimes in misunderstanding, in the sanctity. I have always told you that the Socialist Party was with you, giving you the support, affection and encouragement that you deserve because of the enormous difficulties that you have experienced in recent years. And in addition to that support, that affection and that understanding, they asked us to compromise: the commitment to support the Committee of Inquiry today. Today, Pilar, Federico, and the rest of the people who make up this collective, announce that the Socialist Party will fulfil its commitment to support the Commission of Inquiry in this Congress. Why are we doing this? Firstly, because we believe enormously in the transparency of this Parliament. Transparency is the best instrument and the way to better connect with citizens, that this is really the real House of Citizens' Representation. Because this request is not only endorsed by the association; it is endorsed by seventy-eight municipalities of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, by the unanimous approval of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, as well as of the Madrid Assembly and also of the Parliament of Castile and León. It is endorsed by 68,000 signatures submitted yesterday. I therefore believe that this proposal brings us much closer to what citizens think and feel. And we have an example of transparency, because if we have supported in this legislature all the commissions of inquiry that have been approved in this Congress, how could we not support this commission of inquiry? We believe deeply in transparency, regardless of whether it affects a political party or not, and whether it assumes responsibility or not. Pilar and Federico know that the Socialist Party lived very closely these events because it was up to us to suffer this situation. You know that we have lived it from the government and from the opposition, and I have to say that in recent years the support and initiatives you have put forward have been improving and enriching not only with the former socialist government but also with the People's Party government. Commitment to partnership, commitment to transparency and, no doubt, commitment to improving the security of our country's commercial aviation. That is the greatest spirit of this Commission, improving it, being respectful of the work done from other areas, with the judicial work or with the work of the technical committee, but we believe that this Parliament can build its truth with respect for that of others. Apart from the Commission's very important conclusion, it will also be very important in this Committee of Inquiry to provide experts, specialists and the plurality of opinions of this Congress. It is essential that we do this work with a great deal of responsibility, with the responsibility of not going against anyone, with the responsibility of improving the safety, I insist, of our country's commercial aviation. To that end the Socialists are going to this Committee of Inquiry, to put all our will and our responsibility to improve security affecting thousands and thousands of citizens, and is told by a person who has the culture of taking the plane every week. Sometimes, when you take a plane, you need to ask yourself if everyone has done their job right, so the best thing this Parliament can do, with the input of the different political forces, with the input of the technicians and the people we want to see, is to improve our security system in commercial aviation. That will be the commitment with which the Socialist Group will work. That is our commitment, Pilar, Federico, to supporting this Committee of Inquiry today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good evening to everyone, especially the relatives of the 154 victims and the president of the association, Mrs Pilar Vera. As a product of the tesón and the effort of all of them, this point is being debated today. The People's Party is not usually in favour of setting up these commissions of inquiry, and in this case what we are naturally going to do is not only to oppose but to work actively on it. A committee of inquiry has already been set up in this Parliament because of an accident and we cannot allow first-time victims and second-time victims in the same nation. We are not in favour of politicizing accidents and, in this sense, we have a serious doubt: if the text that Podemos and Esquerra Republicana bring has two objectives: first, to clean up political responsibilities and, secondly, if the PSOE believes it should clean up political responsibilities, why did it not first assume its political responsibilities and save the victims nine and a half years of waiting? [[Applauds]] I have heard, with amazement, from the proponents, from the Republican Left of Catalonia, that this Commission is late. You, who in 2008 gave parliamentary support to those who now demand political cleansing, why then did you give that support to the socialist political group? First objective, the purification of their political responsibilities - they should have said it before -. Secondly, to clarify the technical causes. The association has an obligation to say something: it is its duty, it has to, but there are things that associations have an obligation to do and there are other things that parliaments cannot afford to say. The proponent has said - I have taken note literally -: Aircraft are a danger. If this Parliament believes that, contrary to all the indicators in the world, our aircraft are a danger, change the Air Safety Act, which has been in force for fifteen years. If you don't like the study, the three-year report that was made during the socialist stage by the Air Accident Investigation Commission, let's change the law: it's a rule and it's ours. If the Spanish aviation system, one of the most reputed in the world, is a product of our rules, why don't you decide to change it? Therefore, we do not understand some attitudes. I remind the Socialists that it is better to lose a vote than coherence. It's better to lose a vote... [[A lady Member: Take it!-Applause]] It is better to lose a vote than common sense. I understand that the victims cannot be compensated or the pilots either that, after four years of instruction at the Madrid Provincial Court, the result, the result was the criminal file and the determination that it was a human error. I can understand that, but not the fact that those who in their day did not want to assume any responsibility today approve a text by Podemos and Esquerra Republicana that says: purify political responsibilities. If there really are, if they do, they shouldn't have waited nine and a half years for this to come here. I believe - and I must defend it this way - that the victims have fortunately the right and the obligation to fight for the memory of their relatives, to work every minute of their life to be remembered and to improve technically any process, but to make a global censorship of the Spanish air system would be completely unfair. Therefore, we, our group, will participate in this Commission and we will do so with abstention, but, I insist, there are political groups which, instead of losing a vote, today have preferred to lose common sense. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u174	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we will make an institutional declaration of zero tolerance against female genital mutilation. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Institutional declaration of zero tolerance against female genital mutilation. On 6 February, the International Day of Zero Tolerance against Female Genital Mutilation, FGM, proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly, is celebrated with the aim of developing the necessary mechanisms to promote awareness-raising campaigns and take concrete measures for the eradication of female genital mutilation. Female genital mutilation is a practice that involves violence against women who suffer it and directly affects physical, psychological, sexual and reproductive health. It is a violation of human rights and a form of violence that constitutes the manifestation of great gender discrimination as it is an act of violence against women and girls because of being so. It is undoubtedly a global challenge to the individual and collective human rights of women who suffer it. According to the World Health Organization, this practice affects some 40 million girls and women worldwide. The Council of Europe Convention of 12 April 2011 on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention, calls for the promotion of a comprehensive and integrated approach to violence against women and female genital mutilation. The commitment to combat this form of violence led the Government in 2005 to promote the reform of Organic Law 3/2005 of 8 July, making the jurisdiction of the State competent to know the acts committed outside the national territory that could be classified as female genital mutilation provided that those responsible were in Spanish territory. In 2014, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution urging States to intensify their efforts to eliminate female genital mutilation, including in their respective priority agendas the adoption of measures and strategies to end this inhumane form of barbarism. The European Parliament, in its resolution of 6 February 2014, also calls on the European Commission and the States of the Union to take further more effective measures against this scourge, reiterating its call on Member States to use the existing mechanisms, in particular Directive 2012/29. In 2015, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System warned us in its Joint Protocol on Health Action that approximately 17,000 girls from zero to fourteen years were at risk of this practice in Spain. According to data from the Wassu-UAB Foundation, this figure rises in 2016 to 18,400 girls at risk of female genital mutilation. The recent State Pact adopted at the Congress of Deputies made for the first time mention of the practice of female genital mutilation as part of the patriarchal violence suffered by some women. Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies, on the occasion of the World Day of Zero Tolerance against Female Genital Mutilation, is committed to perfecting the mechanisms for developing public policies aimed at the eradication of female genital mutilation in Spain. Some of these measures should include strengthening training in prevention and eradication, with an intercultural and gender perspective; encouraging models of socio-community intervention involving families of girls or women who may be affected; strengthening public health services to prevent female genital mutilation and address the complications it causes; and, of course, developing legislative measures that place the lives of girls and women at risk of this inhuman practice at the centre. Congress of Deputies, 6 February 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u177	Let us proceed to vote, first of all, on the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, we voted on Royal Decree-Law 20/2017 of 29 December, extending and approving various tax and other urgent social measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 231 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u178	It's validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 133 abstentions, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u179	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 21/2017, OF 29 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE ADAPTION OF THE SPANISH RIGHT TO THE REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE MARKET IN VALUES. [[File number 130/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u180	We now proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 21/2017 of 29 December 2017 on urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union legislation on the securities market. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 185; 154 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u181	It's validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u182	It will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u183	Let us now vote on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, a non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the thrust on the international agenda of the relevance and memory of the victims of terrorism. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups People, Socialists, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u184	It's approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is placing the Government at the post in practice of a plan against labour exploitation. [[File number 162/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u185	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to implement a plan against labour exploitation. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Group of the United People's Party of Europe. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 168 against, 131 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u186	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u187	We shall now vote on the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion for urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the political situation in Catalonia. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 90 against, 248 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u188	It's rejected. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken to ensure the employability of young people and quality in their recruitment and working conditions. [[File number 173/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u189	We voted for the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to ensure the employability of young people and the quality of their employment and working conditions. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 171 against, 130 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u190	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u191	We voted for the request of the Confederal parliamentary groups of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Esquerra Republicana, for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 207 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-06-CD180206.u192	It's approved. [[Let us applaud the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Group of the Republican Left and several of the Joint Group, who have stood up and returned to the public gallery.]] Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
