ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item IX, relating to the motions for resolutions concerning the memoirs of the General Council of the Judiciary. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u2	On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, item 7 of the agenda, relating to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, will be discussed at tomorrow's sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u3	We begin now, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on taking into account the proposed law of the Illes Balears Parliament, amending Law 14/2013 of 27 September 2013 on support for entrepreneurs and their internationalization. That is why three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands are accompanying us, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House, as well as the Counsellor. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Maria Núria Riera i Martos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour to intervene in this House on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of the Balearic Islands and in defence of the amendment of Law 14/2013, supporting entrepreneurs and their internationalization, as regards the regulation of the activity of basic sport. Our group is of the opinion that the 16th additional provision of this law has rightly emerged in order to regularize relations between sports clubs and their workers. Based on this provision, inspection campaigns were carried out to detect many cases of labour irregularities and to order through part-time contracts, protecting workers who were not discharged and were deprived of their labour rights. But also, on the contrary, the application of the rule has made it clear that in many other cases there is not a genuine employment relationship, but rather an activity proper to sports volunteering; an amateur sport which cannot be reduced exclusively to a job contract or require that the compensation received by volunteers be regarded as remuneration. This would force monitors and coaches, mostly children, to discharge themselves as self-employed, bill and contribute for the small wages they receive, and would generate situations of incompatibility of work for many others, which would automatically be excluded. And to clubs, mostly small, it would be impossible to pay social contributions and carry out all the paperwork of highs and wages. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the rigorous application of the rule would mean increasing basic sport; increasing the inequality of opportunities for the youth population, as not all would be able to access, and eliminating from a pen the important social work and training in values played by this sport. If these activities have been for years in a legal bubble, in a legal limbo, perhaps it has been supported by common sense or the instinct of survival. Therefore, from Baleares we propose the elaboration of a plan of economic support and improvement of the basic sport; a plan that regulates this activity... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u6	..., a plan that determines that economic compensation cannot be considered wages because it is that, compensations, and that sets out measures to ensure the maintenance of the network of sports volunteers. It is also proposed to encourage a special tax regime to ensure its viability. Whenever a social demand has been raised, ladies and gentlemen, the Balearic People's Party has been positioned on the people's side and twice we have unanimously adopted this bill in Parliament, but also in the Balearic People's Party we are aware that making demands requires coherence and honesty. Honesty is to recognize that the two propositions of law, which we formulated in 2015 and which we present today in 2018, which are substantially the same and have the same consensus in the Balearic Chamber, have an abysmal difference, which is the economic environment in which they occur. In 2015, we were in a situation of economic recovery, after a serious social and political crisis, and the urgent reforms we had to implement forced us to sacrifice some demands to save many needs. Currently, in 2018, the reforms implemented at that time by the responsible People's Government have turned the political landscape around, turned the economic landscape around, and other priorities that have remained in the background can be addressed. Therefore, the interpretation of one and the other moment, applying coherence in this case, cannot be the same. Two different moments and the same request that can now thrive, because it does not depend on an economic urgency, it depends on a political sensitivity. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that there must be legal possibilities to give sensible, balanced and legally solvent answers to all the entities of the basic sport and to differentiate them, that is, from those other sports entities in which there are employment relations and they do generate benefits for them. We talk about the balance between two sporting realities: a professional sport and an amateur sport training in values. Let us all therefore make an effort to ensure that this basic sport remains a part of that reality. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Joan Manel Martí i Llufriu.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Menorca, island on which I am a member of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. Woody Allen said that 90% of the success is based simply on insisting and today from our group, Més per Menorca, and from the Parliament we want to insist, as the athletes repeatedly do, that a special, labor and fiscal regime is necessary for clubs and non-profit sports entities that make basic sport, formative sport, in order to recognize, protect and promote their activity. Because we talk about clubs and sports entities that are not and should not be treated as a business and as entities that carry out fundamental social work. I say that we want to insist because this is not the first time this issue has been raised. Already in the process in Congress, the Law on Support for Entrepreneurs and Their Internationalization was the subject of multiple amendments by the parliamentary groups of Congress that were all in the same direction and were rejected. Also the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, in 2015, as has been said, and then, in 2017 - it is the one we are debating today -, presented that same initiative, proposal signed by all parliamentary groups and approved unanimously. It was not accepted, it was rejected in its processing. We want to insist that sport is, can and must be a positive practice in terms of both physical health and the quality of personal life as well as health and the quality of collective life, which has to do with the values that foster socialization and coexistence. It is therefore not surprising that the European Charter stated in 1975 that the practice of sport is a right and that the public authorities have a duty to promote and stimulate it in an appropriate way. We must insist that we talk about basic sport, amateur sport, which is started and practiced in 80% of cases through non-profit sports entities and clubs. We don't talk about professional sport or elite sport or sport as a show. The sports club is, without a doubt, one of the fundamental pillars, if not the fundamental one, on which the practice of sport is based. The club is the tool to learn and practice a sport but also to educate a child and to improve people's health. The social reality of sports clubs in the Balearic Islands and the State as a whole is not negligible. In the Balearic Islands alone there are 1856 registered sports clubs, 48 federations and more than 100,000 federation licenses. Over the past few years, sports clubs and entities have made a great effort to incorporate professionalization into their sports management and training, and it has been very positive; but this essential professionalization still needs the figure of volunteering. The two figures - voluntary and professional - are not incompatible, but essential and complementary. In this regard, it is worth recalling the response of the Government in 2016 that served the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies to disregard the bill approved by the Parliament of the Isles, and in it the Government showed that between 2012 and 2014 3950 requests had been made for inspectors, of which 4185 had been issued for social security purposes. That is good and true, that is so, but the Government should also have said that in that process more than 7,000 volunteers who until then were compensated, who had no place in the Volunteer Law nor could be considered to have been working relationships, ceased to carry out their activity. In short, we believe and defend that non-profit sports entities and clubs need - and this depends on their survival - a good combination of professionalism and volunteerism, and that this requires special and specific regulations, both labor and fiscal, including exemptions in contributions, new contractual figures, taxation specificities, etc., that are equitable and that ultimately give effect to the right of citizens to practice and learn a sport, which is also the duty of the public authorities to promote and stimulate basic sport in an appropriate way. We therefore ask you today to support all the parliamentary groups so that, at last, this time, this initiative can move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u9	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr Enrique Casanova Peiro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be in this rostrum today, which I cannot fail to thank, especially when I come to present to this House, together with my colleagues, a proposal for a law which comes from the Balearic Islands and which has the consensus of all the parliamentary groups in the Autonomous House. For that reason, I think it is fair to give the approval here, because this proposal needs to start a whole parliamentary tour and it needs to go ahead with the same consensus with which we are presenting it today. Why does this proposal have previous consensus? It has consensus because it is a proposal that comes out of civil society, comes out of the same clubs, it is a demand that the same clubs make to the political parties and that all political parties have decided to push from the Chamber to shoot. In the Balearic Islands, sport, specifically basic sport, is fundamental to creating a more cohesive and advanced society. And although this is an amendment to the Entrepreneurs Act, this proposal affects a very concrete and crucial aspect, which is sport, more specifically basic sport. This basic sport allows our children to receive the values necessary for personal growth and also allows to generate cohesion, generate social fabric. It is the basic sport that facilitates, through the existence of clubs and groups, the generation of a social fabric so that our daughters can feel part of the group, so that our young people can develop projects with common objectives. The work of sports clubs, apart from having a formative and instructive character, is also essential for the population, because it has to understand the importance of the practice of sport and facilitate the development of behaviors that improve the quality of life and the values associated with it. Sports clubs and associations that work in basic sports often do so in an unselfish manner, with great will, with great dedication, with great commitment, which has enabled the development of a work network that needs the support of the institutions and also of the Administration. Base sports clubs opted for professionalization, entered volunteering on a sports basis while staffing to carry out their activities, but this volunteering staff often has to deal with travel expenses, equipment, etc., which cannot be considered as wages and cannot be established as a basis for a labour relationship. Therefore, we consider that after the adoption of the law, with the work done by the Labour Inspectorate, many of these volunteers were discharged, but in the end the evident proof is that they ended up being discharged, which showed that non-professional sports clubs cannot bear a full burden of personnel recruitment costs, etc., which resulted in many volunteers being dispensed with, which we need to recover. We now come here to insist on this change; this change is only intended to facilitate the survival of many sports clubs. It seeks to improve the development and strengthening of basic sport. He tried to make workable activities possible in addition to those which volunteered. I now ask this House to support this proposal and to start its parliamentary tour to ensure the balance between the fulfilment of the fiscal obligations of sports entities and the characteristics of these entities, which are often managed with very few resources but which do a lot of work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to give the institutional support required by sports clubs and, at the same time, administrative support, and to support cohesion and progress in policy practices that aim to improve the lives of all and raise the quality of life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u11	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea. [[EAJ-PNV]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Today is National Day of Catalonia. I would like to congratulate all Catalans and, in particular, those who cannot share it with their people because they are in prison. We have today a proposal for a law amending Law 14/2013 that comes to us from the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and, as its representatives have perfectly explained to us, it is something that, to begin with, we would have to look for its origin; its origin is that it got in the matute in a law that had nothing to do with this matter, in a law of entrepreneurs. It is a matter directly related to volunteering and to the people who provide their services voluntarily in countless sports clubs and in physical education activities that benefit us all so much and which are so necessary for our society. The object and purpose of this change is something that we all certainly share, because it is clear that the relationships between people who act in the field of sport with clubs and sports entities respond to the differentiated links: either they are workers and workers with employment links or they are volunteers or volunteers, in which case the voluntary scheme applies to them, in which the amounts perceived as compensation are not considered wages. Undoubtedly, some understand that things have not had to be done very well to get to the situation we have come to. In Euskadi we have made this clear from the outset and the people who have lent this have been given the law which applies in the area of volunteering in the Euskadi Autonomous Community. For this reason, the Basque Government issued a guide on the regularization of work and volunteering in basic sport, precisely because it saw that this situation occurred, because the Ministry of Employment and Social Security once again raised the obligation, also in the field of sport, to bring the current labour standards into line with the benefits developed by all persons linked to sports entities, provided that the activity carried out was of a work nature. The question here is: What is being a wage earner and what is being a voluntary element? Unfortunately, the study on the activity carried out in non-profit sports clubs and entities, which the Ministry had drawn up, gave rise to its compulsory nature and, from there, the Supreme Court had established a broad interpretation of what should be considered as a labour link without the amount paid by sports entities, whether high or low, being relevant to that consideration. Therefore, what is intended with this modification that comes to us from the Balearic Islands is to dulify in some way what the law so strictly marked, that it made everyone who provided a service have to eventually become a wage earner and, as has been said, many entities cannot sustain what that implies. It is also true that, at the expense of that, there have been irregular situations in which real wage earners, or those who really should have been wage earners, have been working as volunteers. Therefore, not one extreme or the other; let's rationalize things because, obviously, as this guide says, there is a perfect difference between what a volunteer is and what a employee is, who requires his or her remuneration, who requires volunteering, who requires someone else to be on his or her own, who has an effective dependency regime, etc. We all know what conditions make someone a wage earner, while volunteering compensates for their expenses, and that's what you have to believe. The Basque Volunteering Act clearly states that all persons who provide their services must then be credited with the costs that have been incurred in order for them to be compensated. Having said that, legally or in accordance with the legal technique, I believe that the text before us has not been overreacted, because we believe that there are certain gaps that should be addressed. We therefore hope that, if at some point this procedure is overcome, this bill can be amended or drafted in a more appropriate manner. My group is not going to oppose this because we believe that this situation is a real situation that takes place in many clubs and that must be done. Finally, I would like to say that, in the case of Euskadi, sport is the exclusive competence of the Basque Government, that is to say the Basque institutions, and that in the fiscal part which you propose at the last point, it must be borne in mind that the common system must, of course, legislate the Government, but that it is the Basque outside institutions that are competent to decide what these amounts should be. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u14	Thank you, President. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament to the ballet; welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to separate two points from this motion for a law. As far as the subject matter is concerned, that is to say, the general picture, we cannot agree more. We fully agree on the importance of basic sport, first, because it plays an essential role in society and everything it entails in terms of learning for children and young people to learn to work as a team, to compete sports, to win and lose, to get up and play again, but also to lead healthy lifestyles. All this makes basic sport of decisive importance. As you know, fortunately, in Balearic Islands it enjoys good health with almost 2000 clubs, 48 or 49 federations, about 100,000 licenses. And if we agree on the importance of basic sport, we also agree that there is a peculiar situation right now. As far as professional sport is concerned, progress has been made in areas such as the tax system, insurance coverage - in this legislature we have approved GNP in this sense, in extending insurance coverage - in medical prevention - for example, the programmes for the prevention of heart disease - but in the basic sport it goes the opposite way, there is a whole network of volunteers - trainers, trainers - not for profit, who do not charge wages, who in any case charge compensation for the expenses they incur - often in B, in this case - thousands of them without specific training and without being recognized the hours they use, in this case in the work they do voluntarily. And of course without guarantees and coverage, not from elite athletes, but from self-employed or other workers. They are people - let's not forget - in whom we have delegated sports education and in values of more than five hundred thousand athletes of school age and of more than one and a half million in the university sphere only as regards national tournaments. Therefore, if we added the autonomous and local figures - which is obviously the largest - the figure would be much, much higher. To correct this situation, to provide coverage to these volunteers who work non-profit, it is possible that it was the spirit that encouraged Law 14/2013, when it said: regulate the relationship of club workers and non-profit sports associations. It is clear, however, that simply requiring the contributions of volunteers who provide their services presents many problems. On the one hand, it can be overly burdensome for the club and that makes the clubs, instead of registering the workers, cut them off. But, on the other hand, it can also be burdensome for the volunteer himself. Let us think of a student who receives a scholarship and who has to give it up for the perception of paid work. This is then, how to regularize the situation of basic volunteerism and how to extend its protection without dismantling it. For these two things, because of the importance of basic sport and because of the existence of a singularity, we agree that reform must be undertaken. Now, as far as the content of the proposal is concerned, that is something else. His defence in the Balearic Parliament called for a specific or special regime, working and fiscal, to respond to the reality of the clubs and sports associations of basic sport, with which we are - I insist - fully in agreement. But this does not move to the text. Look, this bill is unclear as to the tax changes you want to make. For the same reason, it is strange that it is limited to amending Law 14/2013, when it would have to include all tax legislation - which would have to be amended - and even the autonomous regime. On the other hand, it is redundant in other respects, such as the fact that there is already a 2020 Basic Sport Support Plan, which already contained significant deductions of 15% of corporate tax advertising expenditure and included the corresponding logo, and deductions of up to 90% of donations. In any case, it is clear to us whether the plan proposed here is a new one, a continuation until 2030 or a reform of it. And there is an additional issue, it should be remembered that the competencies on basic sport are autonomous. You propose that the General Sports Council should be the boss of the reform, but - as you know - it is primarily dedicated to elite sport, so we believe that the autonomous communities here also have to do their duties. In short, more than a proposal for a law seems to be a non-legislative proposal, full of goodwill but limited to urging the Government to do things. However, as we have already said in Parliament, we are going to vote in favour of the inclusion in order to open a debate and to fill it with content in the process of processing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs De la Concha García-Mauriño has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we welcome members of the Balearic Parliament who are bringing us to debate an initiative on the regulation of sports clubs. Welcome to this house that is also yours. Your ladies and gentlemen know the data because they have already been exposed in this House and in different committees repeatedly. Child poverty in Spain reaches a scandalous 30%, and overweight and child obesity reach a huge 40%, just below the Cyprus figures. Both data - as we know - are closely related. For all these children and adolescents adequate food is vital, but also the physical exercise and practice of some sport. Sports clubs, especially in unattended neighborhoods in the rural environment, in small villages, represent an opportunity for our children and for our youth, an opportunity for health, self-esteem, leisure, socialization, integration, equality between boys and girls. Basic sport fosters values of solidarity and collaboration; it is part of the associative fabric of peoples, facilitates the integration of populations at risk of social exclusion and, above all, creates community. In addition, in many of these clubs a quarry of sportsmen has been created that could then follow the path thanks to this first opportunity that was given to them. Clearly, it should be a fundamental task of the Government to guarantee this right, the right to access to sport and physical exercise for the entire population, especially children and young people. It is a matter of public health and equity. But, as in so many other areas, the so-called economic and political crisis of cuts by the former Government affected the already very fragile budgets devoted to children. We call on the new Government to take the necessary steps to reverse this situation. In Spain there are more than sixty thousand sports clubs. Non-profit clubs, many of them in a precarious situation, have taken advantage of volunteering to be able to carry out their teams and that a multitude of teenagers, boys and girls, can access sports practice. Thanks to the unselfish collaboration of this volunteer, many girls and many children can have a centre where they can meet, where they can play, where they can train, where they can compete, where they can become older. The problem arises when in some of these clubs the figure of volunteering is used as a subterfuge to prevent the recruitment of technical sports personnel. This formula has been extended and has ended up insecure a sector that is already complicated, especially harming sports technicians, who appear as false volunteers, as are the false autonomous ones in other sectors. They are also mostly young technicians, boys and girls newly trained as sports professionals who are taking their first steps in their professional career at these clubs. Nor can we ignore the fact that the best way to control the quality of the services that are being provided to our children is through a contractual relationship that ensures the necessary qualification of the staff in charge. We're talking about minors, we're talking about safety and we're talking about health. We do not escape that forcing sports clubs to a massive labor regularization of their technicians can lead them to ruin and their disappearance, thus leaving many young people without the possibility of access to sports activity. We therefore believe that it is important for the Government to encourage the Basic Sport Support Plan and to meet with all the parties involved to arrive at a solution that defends both the rights of sports technical personnel, those of volunteering and, above all, the right of children to enjoy sports activities. This solution cannot, however, lead to the disappearance of the more than sixty thousand sports clubs that are currently registered. Our vote will be in favour of this initiative put forward by the Balearic Parliament, where, by the way, it was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u17	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u18	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Balearic Parliament and the Consellera d'Esports and Culture of the Government to this, which is their home, and to convey to them that their presence in this Chamber gives me special and personal satisfaction. Welcome. I am satisfied not only with my status as a proud island, but especially because the initiative that Parliament brings us here today to dance unanimously for its consideration puts the emphasis on what in recent years has become the sign of identity of our autonomous community, the work for and for people, the defense of social rights and the struggle for social cohesion. That is what this initiative is talking about, promoting sport and, therefore, combating inequality, education in values and social integration. Sport is, in short, health and well-being. Moreover, access to it is protected by our own constitutional text and, therefore, it is up to all public authorities to defend and promote it. Our Constitution and our competitive system make sport a competing subject of the set of public administrations and levels of government that makes it essential to seek consensus in a sector around which one of the greatest manifestations of the association movement in our country is articulated. Precisely because of this, it was not right of the previous Government to try to regulate such a broad, complex and necessary sector in our society through a brief additional provision of a law, Law 14/2013, supporting entrepreneurs and their internationalization, which, together with a very intense campaign of inspection, provoked three years ago an intense buzz and fear in thousands of sports clubs whose highest priority is and was the promotion of basic sport. Ladies and gentlemen, what is essential now is to learn from past mistakes and assume that sport, its promotion and its defence in all its manifestations is a matter for everyone, on all levels of government, and that legislating one another in such sensitive matters, entanglement in competition issues or lack of communication between departments can have devastating consequences on what must be the highest priority of all public representatives, the defence of citizens' rights. Therefore, the fundamental thing here today is to make two commitments clear: one with basic sport and the other with dialogue and coordination. If we want to move on to a new stage in our country, to a stage of social justice and concertation, sport is an excellent field of play. Few subjects cover both the associative fabric of this country and sport, which has often made us forget the ideological and cultural differences and which is a source of values and principles for millions of children throughout our territory. The Socialist Government, in the few months since its formation, has shown its commitment to sport from the zero minute on with the announcement of the elaboration of a new law on sport that will replace the one that has been in force since 1990, which has become ineffective and obsolete, and, of course, with dialogue and consultation, also in the field of sport, with the constitution last July of the first Sectoral Conference on Sport, chaired by the Minister of Culture and Sport of the Government of Spain and with the presence of all the sports advisers of the autonomous communities. The establishment of this body of coordination, collaboration and cooperation between the central and autonomous administrations, both at its highest level, shows the importance for this Government of a subject such as sport and will be the ideal forum for working together in the elaboration of a new law on sport, as well as for any initiative aimed at the promotion of sport as an element of improvement of health, coexistence and social integration, whose maximum exponent is the work that thousands of clubs carry out every day in our country with their unpayable effort and work for basic sport. And, of course, on this new path of commitment at the highest level to the world of sport, of recognition of what for the social cohesion of this country is the basic sport and everything that moves in its environment, and, above all, in the new scenario of dialogue and concertation proposed by this socialist government count on the vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group so that this initiative of the Parliament of Les Illes Balears is taken into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u20	Thank you, President. Firstly, of course, allow me to welcome on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group the representatives of the Balearic Parliament, who have brought this initiative to us in Parliament and those who are accompanying us from the rostrum. Welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, today's Entrepreneurs' Act 2013 for its amendment emerged at a time marked by a profound economic crisis as an instrument for revitalizing a business fabric heavily affected by the economic situation. The measures proposed by the law provided an impetus for the activity and resulted in a significant increase in business initiatives that have undoubtedly been important players in the recovery our country has experienced in recent years. In particular, if 222,000 small and medium-sized enterprises were closed during the last parliamentary term of the Socialist Government and more than 250 000 self-employed persons had to close their businesses, during the last parliamentary term of the People's Party, as a result of the reforms implemented, for example, this Law on Entrepreneurs mentioned above, 138 000 new enterprises were set up and 190 000 new self-employed persons were granted discharge. Finally, sufficiently descriptive data that I do not think need to be evaluated. Ladies and gentlemen, although the title of the proposal may seem so, what brings us here today is not the modification of the nuclear content of the Entrepreneurs Act and its effects - which, as I said, are obviously positive - but the modification of an additional provision - specifically the sixteenth - which prompted the Government to analyse the nature of the legal relationship that existed between workers and non-profit sports clubs and entities. More precisely, the provision intended to regularize the employment situation of these workers in order to avoid situations of possible fraud or abuse and to establish an employment relationship in terms and conditions similar to those existing in other activities, thereby protecting the rights of employees, while ensuring compliance with tax obligations. While, as I say, the aim was to guarantee and provide legal certainty to workers in these entities and to protect their rights while fighting against the submerged economy, the lack of implementation of the rule and its strict application to all types of links established with non-profit sports clubs and entities - including those with an eminently voluntary and altruistic profile - resulted in the undesirable impossibility of many of these entities because they were unable to meet the legal requirements. In practice, the consequence of rigorously applying the law was that the non-profit sports volunteering relationship, which until now played a fundamental role in social and integrative terms, had to be delimited in eminently labour-related terms; a relationship that, if we end up defining it in those terms, implies being discharged as self-employed and billing and contributing for the diets and small wages that these volunteers usually receive, compensations that often simply cover travel expenses. For clubs, too, it was a cost, as it involved carrying out all the paperwork relating to having to discharge all those employees with part-time contracts for small amounts in Social Security. In short, there was an increase in burdens that could lead to the unfeasibility of many of those entities. There was an increase in burdens that could endanger their survival and, as a result, the training of our young people, young people who hold a fabric that benefits many practitioners of sports activities, especially in minority sports and often in small populations. That's what reality is like. For many of the small clubs in Spain it is impossible to comply with the demands emanating from this law, to which is added the certain possibility of enabling the collaborations disinterested or subject to minimal compensation that existed until then to disappear due to legal problems of incompatibility by having to establish a labor bond. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the strict application of the rules and in the absence of a more precise definition of the different categories, there were impacts on the survival of our basic sport that were certainly not in the mind of the legislator. It is precisely in this context that the Government of the People's Party, which noted the need to address the different realities of professional sport and semi-professional or amateur sport, proposed to move forward with a new law on sport, a new law that, among other objectives, would make it possible to address the problem revealed by the strict application of the legislation that we are dealing with today and, in this way, to adapt the application of labour and tax legislation to the different figures that exist in each reality. The previous president of the Higher Sports Council, with all the actors involved in the sector - sports federations, associations, sports unions, political groups, etc. - promoted a new regulatory framework for sport in Spain for this purpose and did so in a decisive manner. We therefore hope that the current Government, if so interested in our basic sport and sportsmen, will continue with the task begun and facilitate the final processing of such legislation, given the advanced state in which this process has been left which, as we have seen today, benefits everyone. Therefore, as long as this new regulation is adopted and this new framework created, we believe it is appropriate to give our support to the consideration of the amendment proposed by the Balearic Parliament, since - as has already been said - we share the objective pursued, although we could amend the form. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we now support the proposal because the economic situation now allows it and it is fair to do so, as my colleague in the Balearic Islands has said; an economic situation which, if this Government does not spoil it, will continue its dynamism. And I say that this government does not spoil it because its policy, a policy - let us not forget it - which ends up affecting economic activity, has been characterized by probe balloons, bandages and continuous corrections, although it must be said that the latter are always very welcome, because it has been clearly shown that this government is right when it rectifys. [[Applauds]] And it is that when they rectify - why not say it - all Spanish citizens are benefited; precisely, if we think of the benefit of all Spanish citizens, I think they only lack the last correction: to call elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u21	Thank you very much. We thank the three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands who have made up this delegation, as well as the Counsellor. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u22	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the item on the agenda relating to the consideration of the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to amend Law 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the Electricity Sector, as regards the procedure for authorizing the closure of electricity generation facilities. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome and greet the various mayors, provincial presidents and those responsible for the areas where some of these power generation facilities are located in Spain. Today, the People's Parliamentary Group brings to this House for consideration a proposal for a law to amend Law 24/2013, on the Electrical Sector, on the closure of power generation facilities. We recorded this proposal on 3 May and today we bring it with a very different position, but with the same objective: to defend the interests of all Spaniards. Because the People's Party continues to have the same position, a firm and determined position; we do not differ if we are in the government or if we are in the opposition, we never defend one thing in a very different territory and one thing here in Parliament. [[Applauds]] That is the strength, the guarantee and the confidence that my party offers to all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, during this period of energy transition we consider the continuity of thermal power plants and nuclear power plants to be essential, but also the rest of the technologies that make up the Spanish energy mix. Because we firmly believe in the principle of technological neutrality, and today we not only defend the interests of the areas where this type of power plant is located, we defend something beyond, we defend the general interest of our country, Spain. And this is a proposal for a law that seeks to establish the optimal conditions for bringing energy to our homes, the energy that, as you all know, is a basic good and a public service good; a proposal for a law that raises the conditions for the owners of the facilities to decide whether or not to close their operations on the basis not only of the security of supply 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, but also that the closure or not of these facilities guarantees, on the one hand, the fulfilment of the environmental objectives approved and committed in Europe in the previous Paris Agreement in 20015 and, on the other hand, a more competitive price for our industries and consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, in the report of the Committee of Experts on the Energy Transition, a committee which, as you all know, is composed of experts who approach the different political groups in this House, it was stated that the abolition of technologies such as thermal and nuclear in Spain today would mean an increase in the price of electricity by more than 15% for our usual consumers, for our families, and by more than 25% for our industries. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of the United-Can we still think little of what the Spaniards are paying today on the electric bill? Do you really continue to believe that having energy at an unorbited price is not synonymous with increasing product costs, losing competitiveness and losing jobs in our industries, such as those in northern Spain, the electro-intensive ones? [[Applauds]] In Asturias alone, more than 25 000 jobs could go to waste. Ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for taking this proposal into consideration is to safeguard our indigenous power generation systems by regulation. How is it possible that to open any type of electrical power plant and link it to our Spanish electrical system it is necessary all kinds of reports, legal, technical, environmental certificates, and, instead, for the closure of the same ones enough only with a business decision? Today, in Parliament, we are going to see something unheard of and I am afraid that this decision can become part of history. For the first time - and I would like to rectify the Socialist Party because it is shown that every time it rectifys, it is right - the left of this country, and also the anti-capitalists, will leave in the hands of private individuals a public service such as the production of electricity. It is a decision that, in our view, should not only be controlled by the Government of a nation, but must also be endorsed by public bodies, such as the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the Climate Change Office or the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving. Lords of the Socialist Party, Lords of the United-Can we, do you not believe in these public bodies, do you not respect their technical, legal or environmental reports? Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of my group is nothing but to continue to create the best conditions for the continued creation of jobs in our society, the creation of opportunities and, in this way, the improvement of our nation's public services, and this is because our energy has competitive prices. Therefore, I ask you to put aside our ideology, since here, ladies and gentlemen, there are no good and bad technologies, there are simply some more advanced technologies than others. It is true that renewable energies are increasingly influencing our Spanish energy system, for this reason, the Popular Party government, with Mariano Rajoy at the head - and I want to thank our fellow Member and former Minister of Energy, Álvaro Nadal, for the enormous work he did at the head of that ministry -, injected, in 2017, more than 5000 megawatts of renewable energy power into the Spanish electricity system. That is a commitment and another example that Spain not only fulfils the commitments agreed with the European Union, but is at the head of the installation of renewable energy power in Spain. Colleagues, you should not deny that the suppression of thermal and nuclear energy as a backup energy in a country like Spain, with deficiencies in European interconnections, is inviolable for the interests of all Spaniards, because to comply with Europe is not only to shut down thermal and to close nuclear power plants, to comply with Europe is also to comply with the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today it is in your hands whether or not different Spanish, Cacereño, Asturianas, Palentinas, Leonas or, like mine, Andorra, Teruel's. That is why I ask you to rectify, to rectify again; to rectify for the good that it means for all these areas, for their people, for their businesses, for consumers. Anyway, that's not the time to make excuses for this law not to go forward. It's the moment of truth and there's no time to waste. That is why it depends on you that today our lands, our people continue to have a future. Otherwise, you will be responsible and you will have signed the death sentence in our areas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me note the absence of the Government in a matter of great impact and economic and social importance. I will address the Minister for the Ecological Transition, who will surely be following this plenary session live via the Internet or will be able to read your transcript in the Journal of Sessions tomorrow. Minister absent, at the service of what interests are you and your Ministry for the Ecological Transition?, at the service of the general interests of the Spaniards or at the service of the particular interest of any economic or ecological group? In view of this consideration to amend the Electricity Act, the Government must now explain to the Spaniards how in the country that has one of the most expensive electricity receipts in all of Europe the minister wants to increase it even more through a shutdown of power plants that will drag their workers into unemployment and will further increase the price of electricity that we already pay consumers, i.e. domestic users, families, businesses, SMEs, large enterprises and industrial sectors, with dire consequences of industrial relocation, unemployment and territorial desertification. You, the absent minister, and the government to which you belong, also absent, are not at the service of the general interests of the Spaniards, victims of a wicked, sick and addicted system. We have had the opportunity to certify it these past few days with tarifas that beat all the records and light prices fired and crazy. There is no point in Mrs Ribera's recent diagnosis of the continued increase in the receipt of light being attributed to carbon emission allowances and to the increase in fossil fuels: oil, gas and coal. The latest known data have highlighted the Government's doubles in the service of a model of electricity prices protected by law to apply in a good hydrological year the so-called opportunity costs, which, instead of reducing, as we had been told, increase the receipt of light and do so not with the satisfaction of the Government anymore, but with the complicity of the Minister for the Ecological Transition and in the face of the general interest of the Spaniards, who are - I repeat - those who have already paid the receipt of the highest light in Europe. You, the absent minister, are doing exactly the opposite of what could be expected of a government at the service of the citizens, and with its attitude to energy, which began even before the ministers took possession, is constantly threatening and damaging the general interest. The problems of CO2 emissions are not solved by closing industries, but by investing in R & D+i to eliminate polluting emissions. You and the Government to which you belong are actively promoting industrial relocation in Spain. Are you not aware that multinational companies, which have located in our country their large metallurgical factories of intensive consumption, are very seriously warning of the risks of industrial relocation in Spain due to the high cost of energy? Do you want to contribute to the gradual decline in the share of industry in national GDP from 18.73% in 2000 to 16.4%? For you are on your way to this because you do not have a specific industrial policy and punish us with this energy policy that is harmful and dangerous to the economy. Take the Government as an example of what other countries are doing. In Germany they have thermal power plants and they do not think of implementing this way of doing policy that puts at risk the continuity of tens of thousands of stable and qualified jobs, and large population regions where industry has a huge economic and social impact. This is the case in Asturias, where all the alarms have been on for a hundred days, when since the presidency of the government, even without ministers, the Council of Europe was informed, that is to say to all the governments of the European Union, the irresponsible green marketing operation that Spain was going to give in energy policy. We have already warned from Forum that you as a minister, Mrs Ribera, was a certain danger to Spain. Your French colleague, whom you imitate even on the label of the ministry, has already resigned and you are going to follow the same path. Ladies and gentlemen, the uncertainty generated by the Government of Pedro Sánchez through its decisions, announcements, threats and tumbles, also in relation to energy policy, makes it necessary and timely to take into account this proposal to amend the Electricity Sector Act as regards the procedure for authorising the closure of power generation facilities. For several weeks now, I have registered on behalf of the Forum a non-legislative proposal that will also be discussed at the plenary session of the Congress, and one of whose points promotes the timely legislative changes that will allow the Government in extreme cases to authorize the closure of thermal generation facilities, provided that the security of quality electricity supply, the downward impact of electricity prices, the positive impact on employment, the improvement of the competitiveness of businesses and the well-being of families have been guaranteed. The current situation is very worrying. The creation of a new Ministry for the Ecological Transition, headed by a well-known fundamentalist of urban ecology, has meant a quagmire for Asturias that is agitated by the announcement of an unequivocal desertification programme hidden under the euphemism of decarbonization. Behind Pedro Sánchez's energy policy are poverty, unemployment and ruin. That is why there is a growing concern that goes far beyond the mining basins and that extends throughout the national territory with industry, as is the case with Asturias. The government of Pedro Sánchez started from the first minute a crusade against the thermal power plants and against coal, the only indigenous fossil fuel that we have in Spain, which is to renounce our energy sovereignty and place a substantial part of our energy in the hands of external sources at the price they set us, as they will drag the Spaniards towards a receipt of the light scattered in costs of production that will lead to the loss of competitiveness and the loss of jobs. We will vote in favour of the consideration because we believe that its content effectively guarantees the future of Asturias to all those who believe in the need to create wealth and not to destroy it and to maintain and create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea spoke on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u27	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress presents to us a proposal for a law aimed at amending article 53, paragraph 7, of Law 24/2013 of 26 December, of the Electrical Sector, to incorporate a new paragraph establishing a procedure of exclusive State competence in relation to the procedure of authorizations for the temporary definitive closure of installations for the production of electricity of installed power more than 50 megawatts and also of nuclear power plants. With the argument of ensuring consistency between energy planning instruments and the security objectives of electricity supply, climate change and energy price, the aim of this proposal is to introduce a procedure to broaden the scope for refusing to close an electricity generation facility and thus make it difficult. And all this, moreover, from a vision, in our opinion, exclusively state of this matter. That article 3.13 of Law 24/2013 determines on the basis of articles 149.1.13 and 25 of the Spanish Constitution the exclusive competence of the State to authorize this type of electrical installations, we believe that it cannot and should not obviate the existence of other administrations other than the State with competences that may be concerned by this type of installations, such as land management, environment, public security or civil protection by citing some. It should also be recalled that this proposal seeks to replace the draft royal decree which, in this regard, tried to implement the previous Government, and suffers from its own shortcomings. A draft royal decree that was harshly criticized in the process of public consultation by associations, energy companies and other public administrations consulted, including the CNMC itself. However, what this proposed law also deals with is to avoid such public consultation and therefore citizen participation, and it is that, if this proposal were adopted, such participation would be in the hands of the parliamentary groups and therefore limited to the parliamentary legislative committees related to the matter. In addition, the new additional criteria for safety and supply which are proposed: do not adversely affect prices, competition, the supply of raw materials or the planning objectives, are not sufficiently developed or provided for in existing legislation, nor are they covered by European legislation; in fact, they could go against it, in particular as reflected in the proposal of the European Commission for the Internal Market Regulation set out in the winter package. It is precisely necessary to consider the necessary respect for European market rules and freedom of enterprise and, therefore, the right to close on the basis of their economic viability, particularly where this right is set out in Article 3 of the common internal market regulation on electricity in the said winter package. European legislation regulates the freedom of action of the plant owner in order to decide whether a plant should remain active, for example because the remuneration of the market allows it to cover costs, or else it must be able to decide on its facilities and its freedom of economic management. Moreover, the European directive only covers the possibility of limiting plant closures to cases where this may affect the supply guarantee, which in Spain far exceeds, since consumption is 40 and production capacity is 70. The restrictive nature of the procedure for closure authorisations, coupled with the omission of any autonomous intervention in the procedure, is further increased when CNMC, the Climate Change Office and IDAE are granted veto powers to closure authorisations, which are supported by such an indeterminate legal concept as is an unfavourable, significant impact on their respective area of competence, which, in our view, gives these State bodies powers of diffuse and undefined contours that configure closure authorisations as genuine exceptional cases, where nuclear power plants are also among them. The proposed law does not consider the different interests that must be protected according to the body that issues an unfavourable report at the close: the CNMC, the Climate Change Office and the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving. It is sufficient for one of these bodies to issue an unfavorable report to refuse authorisation. In short, the Administration is given an excessive margin of discretion, which may create legal uncertainty for new investments and may also be counterproductive to competition in the electricity sector. A proposal for a law which, in our view, does not raise the need to design a guarantee procedure that provides legal certainty and is at the same time respectful of the autonomous powers that may be affected by these closure authorisations. For this group it is appropriate to have a calm and general debate, a debate that must be addressed without haste, in a global way, including, as the CNMC says, the revision of the procedures for the commencement of hibernation activity, the definitive closure and the revision of all those economic and technical measures that are appropriate to ensure the necessary profitability of operators. That is why this group will vote against it. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u28	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u29	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss more evidence of filibusterism, in this case of the People's Party, than to avoid that royal decree, which has already been vetoed or which has been argued by the CNMC, and also by the Commissioner for Climate Change himself, they transform it into a proposal for a law, to see if they do so once again, because we have already discussed this issue on many occasions. It is surprising, first of all, that it is not the minister himself - who has drafted, is supposed, this text - who is defending it. I think that also makes us see how important it was. We are also surprised by the priority, since this law could say that it is in the air, as it should be based on an energy transition law that, if the previous Government did its duty, we do not understand why it has not been discussed before. As I say, air-sustained laws run the risk of being left in nobody's land, and that's what happens with this rule. As I said, the outgoing Government and the CNMC and the Commissioner tried with a real decree, Mr Arias Cañete - on the other hand, from the People's Party - issued different assessments on the matter. The CNMC said that these criteria create legal uncertainty, in addition to giving a lot of discretion, and warned that it would go against European law and the famous and well-known Winter Package and, also, warned that this government, or any government, can intervene simply if the supply guarantee is at stake, which was not the case at issue. Commissioner Arias Cañete has said that countries have been urged to make a framework that facilitates the energy transition - which is not included in this text - and they have also made it clear in various reports that it is not appropriate to put barriers to the entry and exit of electricity-generating enterprises in any of the Member States. This mutation in the proposition of law is simply to bypass and skip these reports. This is a highly interventionist measure which runs counter to this market, on the other hand liberalised, and which creates legal uncertainty. We have already said this on another occasion, it is a covert nationalisation, with subsidies for the transfer of facilities. [[applause]] The CNMC has warned that these subsidies for the transfer of facilities even run counter to European rules. They are using it as a purely electoral weapon that thinks neither of the country nor of the energy model nor of the companies, and in what is certain this initiative does not think of the citizens of this country. The Spanish can no longer bear energy patches from either of them. In the bill of light more than 70% are burdens imposed by electoral errors committed in a policy that has to be posed in the future. Europe has marked the path and the outgoing government has turned its back, but with this bill we see that the People's Party continues to turn its back on it. We're worried and we're very worried. Here the rapporteur spoke of the proposal and spoke of prices, spoke of invoice, spoke of tariff, without an apparent economic logic when he exposed his data, since he did not talk about what happens with the rise in the price of light. In the last few days, in the last year, we have experienced an increase of more than EUR 8.5 in the rise in fuels, in this case, for example, of the tonne of coal. This initiative aims to shield a type of facility that, as Europe has already said - and as I say, by European legislation - has a certain life. But what makes me blush about all this is that they come, they hit the chest when they talk, in this case of the areas and the mining basins, but they do not get colored when we have presented the request for the creation of a commission of inquiry to see what has happened with all that money destined for the miners and the mining sector, and both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have blocked it because they do not want to know what has happened with all that money that, already advanced, has not been used to convert the sector. [[applause]] We are not going to leave the people and citizens of those basins lying down. We must intervene, of course; we must invest money to rehabilitate these areas, but with realities and with projects and not hiding the money or investing it - who knows - in roundabouts and other projects that have not been used to convert this sector. They have failed the citizens of the basins, continue to fail them and as elections come they no longer use electoral initiatives. [[Applauds]] Besides, the price of light these days is rising for this. [[Show a chart]] Increases in the price of CO2 ton: over the past year we have increased from EUR 5 to EUR 25 ton of CO2. What does that mean? That the more polluting the technology used for the generation, the more it will increase the price of light. We believe that, of course, as Mr Martínez Oblanca has said, we need to talk about industry and that of course we need to talk about R+D+i and that is where money has to be invested, in making our industry, through R+D+i, efficient and reduce emissions, but not with demagogy and not with laws that do not meet the needs of citizens. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about real measures that require consensual planning without prejudice, no more patches and above all to address urgent measures. This party has already done so on countless occasions and today has again registered another initiative, note, to establish a cost audit together with the CNMC to tell you who and how to deal with the costs of the energy transition, as well as an urgent measure: to eliminate all unnecessary burdens that correspond to the mistakes you have made and that are imposed on the bill of light. Because, yes, gentlemen, even if you laugh, what our citizens pay today on the bill of light is their incompetence, that of the two of you. [[Pointing to both sides of the Chamber.-Applause]] Knowing what it costs is indispensable because it is. Whenever we have asked both the People's Party and the Socialist Party how much their ineptness in energy policy and their lack of planning is costing us, they have never given us numbers. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to take energy policy seriously and not to use it as a collection vehicle and start using it as a tool that can help transform our economy and also our environment. For this party, for the president of my party, for Albert Rivera and for myself, the price that citizens pay worries us and takes care of us, and that is why we present measures that can respond to the urgent needs and the future that citizens have. I'm done, President. For this reason, beyond the headlines of the minister, who is not in this debate - which I blame as well as the comrade of the People's Party and Mr Martínez Oblanca - and beyond the filibusterisms of the People's Party, the citizens cannot bear any more patches, the citizens cannot bear any more ideological dyes in a policy that has to be of future and project for this country. Without a common project and without consensus, this country will be engaged in what is happening at this time, which is that its citizens cannot pay the bill of light because certain individuals, simply thinking of their navel or a handful of votes, instead of corresponding to the needs of all citizens, have only corresponded to their own. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u30	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u31	Thank you, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Today, too, is the 45th anniversary of the coup d'état in Chile and the death of Salvador Allende, a defender of democracy and social justice. The People's Parliamentary Group presents us with a proposal for a law that it failed to submit while in the Government. He presented it at the time to save more unfavorable reports, such as the one he had already had from the CNMC, and the rejection in the public hearing of citizens, entities and social organizations; therefore they presented it as a bill. The explanatory statement begins by quoting articles of the Constitution of spirit, let's say, socializing, like the one that says that all the wealth of the country in its various forms or whatever its ownership is subordinated to the general interest. The aim of this bill is for the Government, through certain previous reports, to decide on the closure of generation plants with the aim - that is the objective - of preventing the closure of thermal and nuclear plants. If our group had put forward a bill like this, you would say that it is a Venezuelan law, that is what you would say; because the governments of the People's Party have been characterized by deregulation, privatization - unlike Italy or France, we have no large public energy company - and by putting the interest of the economic elites above the general interest. It is cynical that you now speak of putting freedom of enterprise, of subordinating freedom of enterprise to the general interest. It did not occur to them to take precedence over the general interest when they privatized for a modest price the boxes and banks rescued with public money; they did not take precedence over the general interest or believe that the State should intervene to set limits to the increase in rental prices - as they have done in Germany -; they did not take precedence over the general interest when they rescued motorways with public money or when they ruined thousands of families with the cuts to the renewable ones; nor when they paid in record time compensation to Florentino Pérez for the fiasco of Castor; nor when they opposed the self-consumption protecting the interests of the big companies. There was no general interest there to preserve. Why do they present this bill? They do so because you bet on the continuity of polluting plants such as thermals and expensive and dangerous energy such as nuclear power. When you want to intervene in the energy system it is to preserve privileges or to maintain polluting energies, never to guarantee rights or promote clean energies! This is a policy that moves us away from compliance with the Paris Agreements and European policies. They start the house on the roof, too, because what we need right now is a law of climate change and energy transition with the goal of 100 percent renewable by 2050, with ambitious targets in 2030 and putting citizens at the centre of the energy system and not oligopoly; and with an orderly closure plan of thermal and nuclear and a fair transition policy for the territories affected by these closures. Now it's about doing what you didn't do: energy planning would drive the decarbonisation of the economy. Do not tell us that you present this proposal to preserve jobs: there is not a single mention in the proposed law. Not a word about the workers or the affected territories or how to address this just transition. Nor is there a word about the harmful effects on people's health and the environment that the maintenance of such power plants can entail. With this proposal of law what they do is to cover their irresponsibility, the directive of industrial emissions, whose first version is 1988 and its last version is 2010. The mining plans are twenty years old and, if we now have to deal with the energy transition, it is because the last five, ten, fifteen years have not been taken the right steps to deal with a situation that was already known to be inexorable. What have you done for the affected regions? Nothing, absolutely nothing. What new industrial policy do they propose for the affected territories? None. Were the billions received properly spent on the different mining plans? Well, no!, and that's why we asked for a committee of inquiry in Congress: so that we know what happened with those billions of euros. A committee which both the People's Group and the Socialist Group rejected. This proposal for a law is part of a deception; it is part of his account, which can be summed up in that no matter how much there is talk of climate change and, despite the fact that international agreements have been signed, nothing is going to change. They trick people into believing that it is possible to cling to the past rather than act now and plan the future. Of course, ex-Minister Nadal was already saying, why do we have to be the first in the fight against climate change and - I add - be the last? The previous government's energy policy was an 'invention' of the 21st century. Now they say that if the thermals and the nuclears close, the prices will rise. They also said that prices were rising because it didn't rain and the swamps were empty. Now there is no thermal or nuclear shutdown, the swamps are full and the prices are in the clouds. Electricity prices are among the most expensive in the whole of the European Union rains or does not rain. Everyone knows that at more clean and renewable energy, lower prices. Therefore, their lack of planning and dependence on fossil fuels also explain the rise in prices. They have made the price of electricity a social problem and a problem for the competitiveness of companies. Low wages, high rents and priceless bills of light for many families: that is the legacy you leave us. Because the problem of the price of light is a political problem as a result of bad regulation. Governments have allowed electricians to do whatever they want, allowing them intolerable abuse. What did you do to have an efficient market with fair prices? They did not take any effective or structural measures to solve the big problem, which is that large companies never lose! Among other things, because there are politicians who end up on their boards of directors thanks to the revolving doors. You have allowed large companies to earn huge sums of money by selling power from already amortized power plants, such as hydroelectric or nuclear, at the price of the cheapest technology, which is like selling water at the price of French champagne; they are the so-called - it will sound - benefits fallen from the sky. They have allowed us to have a bill of light that no one understands and to which we pay virtually the same if we consume a lot of energy or make efforts to be efficient. They have allowed large companies to speculate with swamp water and, in addition, passed a bill, with the support of the PSOE and Citizens, against energy poverty, which has been an absolute failure. And when they want to intervene now the electricity market is to prevent the closure of polluting and hazardous power plants such as nuclear power plants. We agree that action must be taken in the energy system, yes, to ensure clean and future energy, to ensure a just transition for the workers concerned, and to guarantee the right to access energy at fair prices, not to perpetuate their old fossil, expensive and polluting model. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u33	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law presented today by the PP is a real fiasco, a legal misconception of a political group accustomed to generating uncertainty and legal uncertainty, especially in the energy sector. [[The Lord]] We are debating a bill that is full of substantive and formal contradictions, which has an extra-parliamentary objective, which is nothing other than making a deceptive and disloyal campaign to win votes in territories abandoned by the People's Party for more than forty years. This initiative, in your opinion, the liberals, seeks to place conditions on the free entry and exit of operators into the electricity market, a condition recognised by the European and Spanish legal acquis, which is still paradoxical. I will argue our opposite position as my three predecessors have already done, I say opposite position, three, with us four groups. First of all - and this is the original sin of this initiative - he says that the object of the rule is that the decisions of the shutdown of power plants are properly consistent with the instruments of energy planning. Well, if the previous Government did not do so, it has been energy planning, planning necessary for efficient development and adapting the sector to the challenges of the future. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, now in the opposition, did not consider such planning a priority, and yet you present a rule that says it must be consistent with a planning that does not exist. First contradiction that points to the real intentions of this text. Secondly, the criteria for preventing the closure of this proposal are contradictory to each other. You propose that, in addition to preventing closure due to security of supply issues, it should also be possible for significant adverse effects on electricity prices or competition or for risks to environmental objectives. However, they do not give any clue as to how this assessment of these new criteria will be made, giving rise again to an excessive margin of discretion and, again, to more legal uncertainty. He said that views should be sought from the NCMC on price impacts, from the Climate Change Office to see greenhouse gas impacts, from the IDAE to see the impact of meeting renewable and efficiency targets, and also from security of supply. But it would be necessary to clarify a priority order on which of the reports is most important, whether the operators' competence to meet environmental criteria or price is more important. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it gives the impression that you have intended to resolve the trilemma of energy policy here with a legal amendment of an article of a law which is already a bad law. In addition to these substantive issues, i.e. purely logical and coherent, there are other issues in a legal form that I will briefly mention. This rule may contradict the general principles of freedom of enterprise and free entrepreneurship and also the Market Unit Guarantee Act. It is contradictory to what has been adopted in the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union with regard to the winter package, which, as you know, will be the Community legal framework for the coming years. In addition, the legislation aims to make an auction with compensation that could clearly be considered as State aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the supply of electricity is a service of economic and general interest, and it is therefore a regulated sector that requires strict regulation both to start its business and to operate and close. The tools exist, but the purpose of the PP was not to appear neither in the explanatory statement nor what its spokesman said here today. The goal was purely political. Today there is the colophon of a history of political terror led by the People's Party and former Minister Nadal, who has come out this door because he does not want to hear it, a history of political omens, of disloyalties in negotiations, of cunning and personalism and of contempt for political opponents; the history of how to use a parliament for electoral purposes rather than to achieve the well-being of the citizenry. [[applause]] It is the history of the use of uncertainty and despair of many workers, the history of a great deception that has turned an electoralist purpose into a legal text full of bulwark errors, which is what they bring here today. In short, it is the history of the failure of the way in which the People's Party does politics. The previous Government knew that this bill was legally inviolable, so it was not introduced as a bill. Gentlemen of the PP, this initiative has never tried to solve a business or work problem, as the spokesman has tried to explain today. It never was, and it has been recognized by the former minister in parliamentary office. They only used it as a bold weapon against the opposition, never talked about social measures and never talked about a just transition; they never talked about this. [[Applauds]] And the worst is that they never had the courage to address what really lies behind this initiative, which is nothing but the future of nuclear energy. This is the real story of this bill that we are debating here today in a very different context, because they are no longer government, and they are not government by doing things wrong, very wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately things have changed today. Today there is hope for many people who did not have it before; today people living in the mining basins know that their party is the one that is ruling; they know that it is we who have been defending their interests for forty years, that we have never forgotten them and much less used them. [[Applauds]] They now know that there is a future, because the government party, the Socialist Party, is going to deal immediately with this just transition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u35	We move on to the next item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the promotion of measures against tourismophobia in Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Navarro Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, convinced of the need to care for and strengthen the resources that we have as a country of special tourist attraction, we bring this proposal not of law, because it is not enough with the generosity of nature. This is one of our main productive sectors and that must be taken care of. In view of the latest data that warn of a considerable drop in foreign tourism, this parliamentary initiative of the People's Group is relevant. We are committed to quality tourism and the improvement of the tourist offer in accommodation, gastronomy, environment, infrastructure and training. This initiative, although somewhat backward in the data reflected by the time it was drafted, promotes the achievement of safe, mature and high-quality tourism, as well as - why not - the pursuit of vandalistic acts that are being carried out against the people who come to visit us through an institutional declaration and a state pact that we consider would strengthen the sector, since the importance it has in our economy is vital. It represents more than 10% of Spain's gross domestic product and is increasingly competitive and innovative. Spain surpasses the United States and is second only behind France. To catch up, I will tell you that in July, about 10 million foreign tourists visited Spain, according to data from the INE's border tourist movements, a figure of 4.9%, almost 5% lower than in July 2017. Total tourist spending is down by 0.9% compared to July 2017 and the worrying thing is that these figures are the largest recorded drop in the last eight years, particularly since April 2010. On the contrary, when the People's Party government abandoned it, the data were different and now I will remind you of them. Spanish tourism hit its international visitor record in 2017 with 82 million tourists, 8.9% more than in 2016. But I'm going to give you other record figures. Tourists who arrived in Spain in 2017 spent 87 billion euros, 12.4% more than in 2016. The average cost per tourist was 1061 euros per person. However, it should be noted that the tourism sector is vital to our economy, which is beginning to show weakness in its main indicators in just three months. We could say that since coming to the government the Socialist Party is more concerned about photos, planes and staging than about taking measures to strengthen the economy. Do you think that by announcing the increase in public spending, with what it entails, and with the rise in taxes, the rise in the price of fuel, the liquidation of coal, diesel, nuclear power plants, the deorbited increase in the price of electricity, and a long number of misconceptions generate confidence? We're a lot of people who think we don't. Turning to the subject of tourism, we cannot forget that this sector maintains 2 200 000 members of the social security system and maintains 2 million employees, which means 12% of the total number of members. The policy of the People's Party was mainly characterized by several reasons: it regarded the tourism sector as a State policy, reaching consensus with all the actors involved, implementing public-private collaboration of public bodies and, ultimately, doing more with less money and achieving exceptional results, and that is an issue that can be demonstrated. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this non-legislative proposal stems from the concern of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend a sector that was beginning to be attacked by groups of ultras who were not only happy to contribute nothing to society, but wanted to destroy a very important basis of the Spanish economy. But, apart from direct attacks on tourist buses and general vandalism, we are concerned about events that have taken place this summer of physical attacks on tourists by groups of people dedicated to the sale of forgery and issues that had nothing to do with tourists and that, of course, have not had a police response, mainly in those municipalities called municipalities of change. And it's just that we're not making it easy for the people who choose us. No one wants to go to a beach where people are fighting - one to see who puts crosses and another to see who takes the crosses -, no one wants to go to a place where there is a grudge and no one wants to go to a place where there are paints that are constantly written: Tourists, out of here. All these demonstrations are bringing down the tourism sector and in this case I am referring specifically to Catalonia, where more than 4% have fallen. That is why we need to react. If we do not take general action, we will soon regret it and if we do not take care of the sectors that support our economy and our employment, of course, it will not go back. We cannot remain impassable by seeing the pieces falling one after the other that with so much effort from all the Spaniards and the leadership of a serious government, which knew what it was doing, we have been building the way for the recovery of the greatest economic crisis in our history. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank the Socialist Group and the Citizens' Group for their proposals, whose amendments I believe have been accepted and we have reached a compromise that will be collected and that we will go to the lawyer so that the rest of the groups can also take note of it. I just want to end by saying that if we are not able to defend one of the most important productive sectors and that it has most helped to get out of the economic crisis that our country has had we are wrong and we are quite seriously wrong. For this reason, the non-law proposal seeks a series of measures such as strengthening the safe tourism plan, pursuing vandalism, making an institutional declaration and a state pact in favour of the tourism sector, promoting cultural tourism and rural tourism and, of course, making an offer of serious and quality tourism that is equally attractive that has been present in previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Martínez González is speaking first of all, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u38	I do not think I will find anything in this rostrum if I tell you that tourism is the main economic engine of this country and the great locomotive of employment. The spokesman who preceded me has given some figures and the EPA corroborates this. There are 2 650 000 people in this country who depend directly on tourism. In recent years, growth in tourists, income and labour has been constant, reaching 82 million visitors in 2017, which generated revenues to the state of €60 billion. We are world leaders in tourism and the brand Spain enjoys world prestige. Among the most valued strengths of our tourist offer are security, our infrastructure and our historical heritage. We are the most competitive destination in the world and our leadership is the product of collective effort and the work of countless entrepreneurs, most of them small businesses. For this reason, campaigns to damage the image of our country are intolerable. The shameful thing is that what is called tourismophobia are Dad's children playing with the employment of the workers, and what is more serious is that there are political parties - some sitting in this House, although they are not present today - behind all these vandalistic acts. [[Applauds]] The common denominator of these attacks is clear: young people from radical nationalist parties, mainly Arran, the youth branch of the CUP, and the Youth of the Republican Left of Catalonia. There are some examples in the press and social media. [[Display of the posters]] Citizens have registered a GNP on this same subject and we have tabled an amendment to make some improvement to the text, but it is already progressing that our vote will be favourable. We cannot stand idly by when we see how it insults, intimidates and attacks tourists and businesses, always from sectors of radical independence. This is bullying if you look at yourself as you look at yourself. It's not a widespread problem. It is well located in Catalonia, Valencian Community and Balearic Islands, which are objectives of Catalan expansionist nationalism. We deal with fanatics willing to impose their idea of country and to expel all those who do not fit them. A few months ago they attacked a tourist bus and directed their vandal acts against hotels and restaurants. Now to the attacks on tourists we must add the ideologization of the public space in Catalonia, a space that should be of all - and therefore neutral - but that now the nationalists try to coperate with the yellow crosses on the beaches, the political megaphonies worthy of North Korea or the threats to the owners of terraces that do not want to adorn them with the yellow ties. All Spain has been able to see how Manuel García, the brave hotelier of Blanes, was insulted and harassed by not allowing ties to be made in his business. From here I want to convey all our support and respect for your great courage. [[Applauds]] The PP, from the opposition, denounces tourismophobia, but from the government did nothing to root it out, not even with the application of 155. Moreover, with regard to the withdrawal of the yellow ties, the PP is not that it has profiled, it is that Mr Casado has come to oppose and censure those brave citizens who defend the ideological neutrality of public spaces. This is not about freedom of expression, as one wants to make one believe, or that two don't fight if one doesn't want to. We cannot put on the same level the forces that defend constitutional values and freedom and those who want to impose their views by placing themselves above the law when they gain. And what can we expect from the PSOE? I don't think much. To begin with, they owe the Government to the same forces that are attacking tourists and undermining coexistence. It is also impossible to know what the Generalitat of Catalonia is doing, because there is no possibility of control in a shamefully closed Parliament where Members are prevented from doing their job. Ladies and gentlemen, for Citizens, the last few years of good will have not been used to meet the challenges we face in renewing and modernising our destiny, in reducing seasonality or in adapting and mitigating the great threat to the sector posed by climate change. The National Integral Tourism Plan has been expired for three years and without news of its update. Our tourism model is committed to sustainable development and a healthy and harmonious coexistence of tourists and residents. In Citizens we will always face authoritarianisms and radicals demanding law enforcement, no one above the law, always together with citizens and entrepreneurs who raise the blind every day to create opportunities and prosperity in our country. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Jiménez Tortosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the non-legislative proposal submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, entitled 'Promoting measures against tourismophobia in Spain', both in the explanatory statement and in the measures it proposes to improve the quality of our tourist offer, no express reference is made to tourismophobia and yes to the measures it proposes to improve the quality of our tourist offer. That is why we first proposed to you to change the title of the non-law proposal to call it 'promote measures to improve the quality of our tourist offer'. We believe that this denomination better defines the purpose of the debate. Tourism is one of the main engines of our economy, it generates employment and wealth, it contributes positively to the development of many regions and consequently that of Spain; therefore, it is an activity that we must take care of and enhance. But, more than in the search for a steady increase in the number of tourists visiting us - that would be unbearable - our effort should focus on keeping the number of tourists at the same time as improving our quality in the tourist offer seeking excellence. Faced with a strategy of competitiveness-price, we must focus more on deseasonalization, diversity and the quality of our tourism offer. The evolution of tourism as a cultural activity, as an expression of an improvement in the quality of life and well-being, is an objective of any society. This evolution of tourism has, over time, presented favourable and unfavourable attitudes in the destinations and areas affected. This development should be analysed in order to be able to come closer to understanding the problems that may cause poor planning or simply that there has not been such tourism planning, because tourism as a phenomenon must always be desired and never rejected, provided that precautions are taken to ensure that it evolves as an executor of the economic and social development of a region or a country. The comparative study of the indicators of tourist pressure on the territory and on the local population in cities with problems of concentration and massification and in cities with indicators determining a position of balance is more critical of the problems manifested in the first destinations due to the lack of adequate tourist planning than to the arrival of an intensive tourism. In the evolution of Spanish tourism we can say that tourists have not left and there has been a lack of planning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, many of the measures you are proposing now should have been put in place long ago. Since the end of 2011, when they arrived at the Government of Spain with their absolute majority, they would have had no problem in implementing these and other measures to care for and empower this sector of our economy that we consider to be so important. But they haven't, and now they're in a hurry. The first measure they propose is to pursue any vandal act against tourism, strengthening safe tourism. However, one of the first measures they took when they arrived at the Government of Spain with their absolute majority was the reduction in the staffing and resources of the State Security Forces and Corpses. They're just doing the opposite of what they say we should do. It is not possible to have more security or to pursue vandalistic acts - by the way, all, not only those affecting tourism - with less resources and less effectiveness. Please be consistent with what they say. On the other hand, in order to materialise some of the actions they propose, it is necessary to use economic resources. However, in the General Budgets of the State for 2018, which you have drawn up and approved, there is no provision for these actions. Again - I repeat - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, be consistent between what they say and what they do. I am Andalusian, deputy for Almería, and for Andalusia tourism is a prime economic sector. One of the measures they propose now in their non-legislative proposal is the improvement of airports and roads in order to improve communication and move easily through the territory. Well, take the test of visiting Almería or Granada by train: they will be taken away from their desire to return. They are two top tourist destinations; for example, Granada has the second most visited monument, after the Sagrada Familia, in Barcelona. I conclude by summarizing the measures, which, for the most part, coincide with those set out in the People's Party's non-legislative proposal, which we have negotiated and which we will therefore support. They would include: continuing to build on a secure tourism plan; promoting an institutional declaration and a state pact in favour of the tourism sector; improving tourism supply; promoting cultural tourism; improving the competitiveness and sustainability of rural tourism; promoting Spain as a tourist destination for trade fairs and congresses; promoting coordinated solutions with the autonomous communities in order to review the rules of State competition in relation to tourist rentals. These are the measures we are proposing to improve our tourism supply, and I assure you that we will be consistent with our proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start this speech - as it is five minutes today, it gives me more time - by pointing out the agreements I have with the initiative presented by the People's Party. The agreement is based on an obviousness, and is that tourism on its economic side is an activity that generates wealth and therefore has a high interest. And so far the agreements with the People's Party, because I can say without fear of being wrong that then we share practically nothing with their initiative. You propose a path for tourism that further deregulates the activity and limits the capacity of local entities and autonomous entities; that leaves to the municipalities and autonomous communities, also those of our country, Euskal Herria, in the hands of a dynamic of state laws that deregulate tourism to try to attract as many people as possible, regardless of the conditions or the degree of affection in the environment. What you are raising creates many problems for the inhabitants, also, unfortunately, for those of our country, Euskal Herria. You are getting price inflation to increase, the supply of housing to be reduced, the community spaces to be destroyed, the cities to be gentrified. Faced with that, there are neighbors and neighbors who express their discomfort, but the People's Party seems to be bothered by the legitimate protests of these neighbors. So what do you do? It criminalizes them as protests or vandalism. You talk about tourismophobia to hide your protestophobia, you fear and hate people to protest, but you do not understand that what you call tourismophobia is the desperate cry of many people. Today, in this rostrum, we have been told about paintings and have been pointed out the painted ones as one of the elements that distort or damage the environment, the postcard that tourists have to see. Surely, when he said that he did not think that all the paintings would disgust him; surely, the paintings that the Civil Guard did last night and today on Mount Oiz and on the balcony of Bizkaia, because there is going to be a stage of the cycling return to Spain, will seem wonderful. Needless to say, I don't. As I was saying, this proposal basically aims to limit those local initiatives that seek to curb the perverse effect of tourist accommodation through digital platforms, and you are once again telling us - a gross excuse - about individual freedom and respect for private property. He is probably familiar with Uber's or Cabify's debate and how they hide under a collaborative economy what is not but a speculative and extractive economy. Thus, in the face of the dichotomy posed by your non-law proposal - or to defend the interests of large groups, because it is you who believe that through the action of these large groups will arrive more tourism, or to defend the quality of life of citizens, the respect and identity of neighbourhoods and local activity - we are obviously with these second groups and facing the interests of the large groups. I will recognise - because, moreover, I believe that we all think so - that tourism is positive. We are all or have been tourists or, if not, we wish to be, but we do not confuse being a tourist, attracting tourists, with not regular and leaving everything in the hands of large platforms that destroy with the quality of life of many and many, not to mention the supposed wealth of which he spoke at first as an obvious agreement, which in many cases remains in very few hands and is not accompanied by decent working conditions. Why don't you talk about the distribution of wealth here too, in a sector that, as you said, employs 2.2 million people in absolutely precarious conditions, and I would say that even indignant, for its high seasonality and for its scandalous working conditions and overtime? It is curious that the People's Party is talking about competitiveness, vandalism, individual freedom, but under no circumstances - at least in this initiative - about a plan to improve the working conditions of people working in this sector when we all know that it is a particularly precarious sector. In short, its non-law proposal causes more illegal tourist flats, less tools for local and autonomous entities and, therefore, less sovereignty to be able to make in their territory policies that safeguard the dignity of citizens living in them day by day. You provoke more gentrification and decide to bet on the catch all, on the policies caught up in tourism. This is probably how they get balconing to become a national sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u44	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. If before we did not share the vision of the non-law proposal, after listening both to the representation of the rapporteurs and to other voices that have supported them even more, we are inclined to understand that it is a genuine misconception. We do not doubt the strategic nature of tourism as an economic activity; the data tell us not only of the importance it has, but that it will have the same relevance in the future. Where we do not agree at all it is in the analysis it makes, in the projection it makes of a certain phenomenon of rejection of tourism and in the measures that have been pointed out in the non-legislative proposal. Let us start from a clear and obvious premise, and that is that where there have been conflicts linked to tourism is because there has been massing of tourism; that is a fundamental issue. In addition, another added issue is that this phenomenon occurs in specific places of an urban nature and is linked to specific contexts and facts, above all - and I will mention those which are for me the two main sources - the poor management of the tourist offer that has been made by the different institutions and another determinant in which local corporations intervene, which is the poor management of an urban use of tourist accommodation. Well, being those the roots, it must be said that these facts are affecting the quality of life of the residents and the coexistence between them and visitors or tourists. It is possible that all these phenomena also have many other causes, but of course those - those relating to the management of the tourist offer and that of the inadequate regulation of the concrete urban use of the tourist use in housing - have not been analyzed in the proposal of law. It is true that in this debate there is also a relevant issue, which is the need to harmonize the legitimate interests of a commercial activity with the right of citizens living in urban areas to live under certain conditions of dignity, but it is also true that the interpretation of this debate should not imply the restriction of the personal and collective freedoms of those living in urban areas who must make their lives compatible with tourist activity. In this respect, let us also point out - there has been no mention of this - that we believe that it is necessary to enhance the role of the municipalities in understanding in this debate what are the issues affecting the general interest and what is the management that tourist activity and hotel tourism uses should be done from municipal planning and regulation. There has been some other factor, such as the intervention of the competition authorities, which have always had greater preponderance towards commercial activity, but we still understand - I have just said this - that in the existence of this massive tourism conflict the correct interpretation must be that of the municipalities, which are going to pretend to harmonize those uses that are also convenient for their economy with the possibility of continuing the residential use of residents in urban areas. To that end, it is important to highlight the following policy milestones in the regulation of this issue. On the one hand, the power to regulate the use of land and buildings is an urban power and, as such, it is the competence of the municipalities pursuant to article 10.2 of the consolidated text of the Soil Act and also of the Local Regime Basis Act, articles 26 and 28 in particular. It is up to them, as the most immediate connoisseurs of this reality, to define the urban use of hotels and regulate their intensity so that it is compatible with the residential character of urban areas. For its part, the sectoral regulation of the use of tourist homes belongs to the autonomous communities and not to the State. That is why they are contrary to the current jurisdictional delimitation - at least with regard to Euskadi and to the determinations made by the Euskadi Tourism Act 13/2016 - the indication of measures that have been proposed in this non-law proposal; and that affects not only Euskadi, but also, I suppose, other autonomous communities. For its part, if we comply with the provisions of Article 148.1.13.a, as far as economic activity is concerned, it is also the autonomous communities - and the Basque Republic, under Articles 10.15 and 36 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country - which are responsible, in any case, for the normative capacity in matters affecting the management of tourism activity. Therefore, noting that we disagree with the approach, even more so with the measures proposed and, above all, with the authoritarian drift that derives from the use of certain phenomena of rejection to enhance absolutely unnecessary punitive measures when those of the Criminal Code exist on a regular basis, we believe that this non-law proposal does not add up to any fact or make a certain analysis, nor can it therefore lead the competent authorities, entities and administrations to join in such an effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. By Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, 11 September, we would like it to be the last Day in which we had to report that the judicialization of a political problem has unfairly led people to prison and we would also, of course, like it to be a day again for all Catalan citizens to claim their rights and freedoms in their broadest sense. [[Applauds]] In this regard, the People's Group is now presenting a non-legislative proposal, according to its title, to promote measures against tourismophobia. The first thing to note is that, beyond the title, the proposal of the People's Group basically proposes measures whose aim is to deepen the liberalised and precarious tourism model that they themselves have promoted for years and which is precisely at the root of the many problems linked to tourism that we most suffer today. Once again, therefore, the People's Party titles in a crude way, to push through the back door, its objectives as an economic model. They talk about tourismophobia, placing security as a central issue, so as not to have to talk about what measures we need to ensure that tourism generates well-being for the whole population and not just for a few. You see, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem here with tourismophobia; on the contrary, as all surveys show, one of the reasons why we are one of the preferred tourist destinations is precisely because of the good treatment people receive when they come here. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group has said this on numerous occasions and again today: the tourism model that exists today is totally unsustainable. At the expense of this model, temporaryity is being promoted - 75% of new contracts are temporary -; job insecurity and its very hard effects on the health of people working in the sector - and if they do not know what I am talking about, ask the 'kellys', that they will explain it very clearly -; the brutal problems of access to affordable housing that is increasingly suffering more and more people, or also the degradation of the natural and cultural heritage of many areas of the State. [[applause]] So no, ladies and gentlemen, there is no tourismophobia here, but what there is, in accordance with your proposal, is phobia that people working in the tourism sector should have decent salaries; phobia to indefinite contracts in a sector where seasonality is the norm; phobia to any legislative change that would make it possible to put an end to priceless, unstable and insecure rents; and phobia to put a real stop to digital platforms that too often turn what should be housing for all in hidden hotels. [[Applauds]] Tourist activity is not innocuous, it has concrete effects on specific places, on the lives of people who see how their neighborhoods and surroundings turn into hostile places, and today, ladies and gentlemen, the municipalities are the ones who are practically alone working to stop that bleeding. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, reading your proposal, rather than a party concerned with the welfare of the majority, you seem to be one of the most aggressive lobbies in the sector. They speak of quality tourism referring solely and exclusively to the spending capacity of those who visit us. Attracting rich tourists without changing a single rule that allows that wealth to revert to the entire population is making a mistake that leads us to exclusivity and, therefore, to exclusion. You have been for years the political image of ball tourism and urban planning, real estate speculation and corruption. They have contributed to the situation being what it is today. And let us not be fooled, the measures they propose do not want to modify the current model, but rather to deepen in it, in a model in which the benefits of tourism are borne by a few while their negative externalities are suffered by others. Ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight a point that I am particularly outraged about. They intend to make us believe that the problem we have of tourist rentals will be solved only through reforms in tourist regulations. Are you aware of the huge problem of access to housing in Madrid, in Cadiz, in Barcelona, in Valencia, in Malaga? Do you know that today there are health personnel who reject the fate of Palma because they cannot pay the rent of a flat? Do you know that we are the OECD country where people allocate more of their income to pay rent? For all this has causes that go far beyond what a reform of the tourist regulations can solve. Without going further, I will cite two causes: one, the sale of official protective housing to vulture funds, which was carried out by his Government of the Community of Madrid; and two, the current Urban Leases Act, which his Government amended in 2013. Therefore, of course there is a need for greater tax pressure on digital platforms dedicated to tourist rentals, only to see the EUR 100 000 that has recently been paid to Hacienda Airbnb. We must stop treating these companies as if they were mere digital intermediaries when they are active agents of speculation - the problem is that you have no intention of doing so - and, of course, we must respect and maintain the tourism sector, because, after all, many people and families live from it or at least try to do so in a reasonable way, resisting the clashes and the precariousness of the big companies that you have been benefiting from for years. But with their proposal they are not defending neither the tourist sector nor the tourists nor much less the majority of the population; on the contrary, to guarantee a precarious present, they are hypothecating the possibility of a future, of any future that allows a common life. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. I ask Mrs Navarro Cruz whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u48	We have proposed a compromise and we have sent it to the lawyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u49	All right. Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the votes. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ATTENTION OF THE SYSTEM OF AUTONOMY AND ATTENTION TO DEPENDENCE TO DISPLACED PERSONS. [[File number 162/000666]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u50	We continue with the following item on the agenda: No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the attention of the system of autonomy and attention to dependence on displaced persons. Mrs Ramón Utrabo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u51	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Today we bring to plenary an initiative that seeks to ensure that persons in dependency situations, who are mostly older persons who are obliged to move to a community or an autonomous city other than that of their habitual residence for family reasons, are treated on an equal basis with the rest. Both the Socialist Government and our parliamentary group are sensitive to these people who have so far been discriminated against for reasons of lack of regulation and inter-administrative coordination, which are essential to ensure the functioning of the care system. In view of this situation, the People's Party Government has not been able to or has not wanted to respond to a problem affecting more than four hundred monthly transfers. As my group has argued on countless occasions in this very rostrum, it was the Socialist Government that made the adoption of the Dependency Act a reality twelve years ago. This law entails the recognition of the right of persons who cannot use themselves to be served by the public authorities and also entails the implementation of the system for the autonomy and care of persons in a situation of dependence. The system began to be implemented as planned, with satisfactory results for its beneficiaries, generating employment and significant economic returns and with a phased deployment schedule. But from November 2011, with the arrival of the People's Party Government, there were major cuts and reforms, such as the abolition of the agreed level, the reduction of the minimum level or the abolition of the contributions of family caregivers to social security. All these cuts have resulted in a frontal attack on the dependency system. The result of these cuts has been that, with the fully implemented calendar since July 2015, adequate attention is not being given to people in dependency situations, and the situation of displaced persons is a good example of this. It is for the Territorial Council of Social Services to agree on coordination mechanisms for the case of displaced persons in a situation of dependency, as stipulated in article 8.2 (i) of the Unit Act. The care of dependent persons in this situation is provided for in Article 17.5 of Royal Decree 1051/2013, which regulates the benefits of the system. Specifically, this article provides that persons in dependency who are displaced from their habitual residence within Spanish territory shall maintain the right and reservation of the service, as well as the obligation to pay the cost of the service or, where appropriate, continue to receive the financial benefit for a maximum period of sixty days per year from the competent administration which has determined the individual care programme. But this regulation is not concrete and in practice it has meant that the vast majority of cases are left unattended or only served a couple of months a year. There is therefore a very important regulatory gap. We do not say this, as recognized by the Ombudsman in January 2015, in her recommendation to the complaint submitted by a citizen, explaining that the situation of these people is not regulated and proposing to the Territorial Council of Social Services - which, I insist, is the competent body - the adoption of measures that would allow the continuous continuation of the protective action of the system and the maintenance of care for people in a situation of dependency in the case of temporary transfers and displacements between cities or autonomous communities. That is why this initiative, which we registered in May, has as its sole objective the solution of a specific problem, which is the uninterrupted continuity in the provision of services to dependent persons. With regard to the amendments that have been tabled by other groups, I have some comments to make. First, I would like to recall that the Dependency Act entrusts the management of dependency to the autonomous communities and amendments have been tabled that seek to turn dependency into covert state competence. However, I would like to point out that most of the amendments introduce elements with which we are clearly attuned; proof of this is the announcement by the Minister of the recovery of the social security contributions of non-professional caregivers or the will, also expressed by the Government at their appearance, of the recovery of the financing of the minimum level of the system of dependency or of the recovery of the level agreed within the framework of the collaboration between the administrations. It is clear that we share the need to reverse the situation created by the People's Party Government, but we understand that this non-law proposal is not the right place to address these issues. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that, as always, my group's objective, the Socialist Group's objective, is to guarantee the benefits that are legally recognised by dependent persons and to put an end to discriminatory situations such as those proposed in this initiative. Therefore, and since it cannot be otherwise, I understand that all groups will agree on this and try to reach an agreement via compromise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is very easy to dine every day away from home when the account is paid by others; it is very easy to come here and propose that we attend to displaced dependent people and that the autonomous communities pay the account. They've forgotten about the funding again. We want to ensure that the displaced are cared for, of course, but do not make us a'simple' and assume the funding that this entails. They forgot to pay the bill in 2006, when the Dependency Act was passed, but they are still forgetting to pay the bill for their proposals today, so we propose amendments to remedy this anomaly precisely, so that the autonomy we have the attention to dependent people as a priority we can continue to assume that service with the money we deserve. In the Valencià Country we have ridiculous funding and we have to pay for things as important as social services, such as dependency, such as education or health care. Then the central government takes our money and gives us a tiny part, a part that does not give us to supply all those services. They know that. Funding is not a whim, it is the right thing to care for and give a dignified life to Valencians and Valencians and also to dependent people we serve in our territory. Today we are asked from the PSOE to include displaced dependants in our service portfolio, and from Compromís we say to them: Great, but compromise to pay for the measures they propose. It's very easy, as I told you, to have dinner every day outside of a restaurant, if the bill is paid by others. So commit yourselves; commit yourselves to paying attention to displaced persons, to taking up 50 per cent of the cost of dependency service, to re-establishing cuts in recent years, to increasing the price of CPI for services, because, if not, what will happen to the care of displaced dependent persons?, what happens to the health care of displaced persons? Up to €400 million the State owes to the Valencian Arks, because the citizens receive the attention and the Valencian Government pays attention despite the bad practices of the Spanish Government, despite the underfunding, despite contributing only 12% of the cost of dependence, despite drowning the Valencians economically. Despite all this, we have doubled the number of dependents served, we have halved the waiting list, we have eliminated the co-payment of services, we have paid the benefits between 1 and 5 of each month, we have multiplied by five the staff of valuation professionals, and all that assuming our share of the cost and that of the central government. Up to €630 million costs dependence on Valencian public coffers. The government contributes only one eighth of all that money when it should contribute half, half! We do this with you in the Valencia Country, ruling with the Socialist Party. Do not make those policies that we in the Valencia Country do with you be in spite of you in the Government of Spain. To propose measures by the autonomous communities is to pay their accounts, which for years we have filled the incompetence and irresponsibility of the Spanish Government. So commit to paying your accounts in the measures they propose, commit to financing the care of displaced persons in dependency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u55	Again, good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if in the field of procedural law there is an institute which is that of expiry, I would say that it would also apply to the specific case of this proposal not of law which concerns us today, not so much for the intentions, which we share and on which we have also proposed an amendment which we will discuss later, but because the fact and the concrete solution are already given in this case. This initiative takes place on the occasion of a complaint to the Ombudsman of a recipient of the system who, as a result of his situation of dependence, alternated his care, first, in his habitual place of residence, Castilla-La Mancha, and then in Madrid, as a result of having his two children there. In view of this situation, Castilla-La Mancha acknowledged the appropriate measures and Madrid, on the other hand, told him that financial aid had to apply for them in his place of residence of origin. This situation led the Ombudsman, on 29 January 2015 and with a complaint number 12012570, to make a recommendation to the Territorial Council of Social Services and the system for autonomy and care of dependency to take measures that would allow the continuous continuation of the protective action of the system. Indeed, that had not only to be the case, but it was already regulated - as the rapporteur pointed out earlier - in articles 8.2.i) of Law 39/2006 and in 17.5 of Royal Decree 1051/2013. In other words, that territorial council had the coordination functions in cases of displacement, and that was what it was required to do at that time. But it is also the case that there is already a working group within that delegated committee composed of technicians and technicians from the various autonomous communities who have already been working on this issue and the problems it causes. The last time this working group met was on 10 May 2018; it received its mandate from the delegated committee on 21 February and from the Directors-General of Dependency in Oviedo on 24 and 25 April. As a result, he gave a series of recommendations that I will not repeat to you because they are quite long, but they talk about that the request for transfer will be unique, that the registration in the autonomous community of destination will not be an initial requirement, that the role of the Imserso design it two different fronts, to enhance communication between autonomous communities, that requests for transfer can be made in any autonomous community, of documentation, etc., etc. After all, what puts black on white is that, first, there were problems with what was referred to the coordinating committee as regards the autonomous communities that were set up and resolved this issue. The fact, the procedure as such, the GNP would therefore have expired. As a conclusion to this GNP - that is why we have proposed an amendment - we wanted to have some thoughts. We would like to stress that while it is for the Territorial Council of Social Services to coordinate this work between administrations competent in this field, it should also be noted that this function cannot replace those administrations which have exclusive competence, and you have also recalled that and I thank you for that mention. Curiously, there is also another issue on which the professionals have warned us, and it is worth noting that in cases similar to the one we are dealing with today there is another underlying problem, and that it must be avoided that, on the basis of this agreement, people in a situation of dependence can be facilitated without their will, because a situation of uprooting would be caused. And a third - which the speaker who preceded me in the use of the word pointed out - is that it must also be stressed that such a mechanism cannot be used to facilitate the indiscriminate entry into the system anywhere in the state when it involves a translation of expenses from one autonomous community to another, depending on the different levels of service. That is why we have tabled an amendment to take these three issues into account. One, on the quality of service; two, on the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities; and three, mention was also made of economic compensation in the case of the assumption by the Displaced Administration of the expenses of the Administration recognizing the status of dependency. Depending on your acceptance, it will not turn our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Allow me to turn away from the subject in question and start with the opportunity given to me from this rostrum to express my strongest condemnation of the scourge of macho violence, since this sad weekend there have been three murdered women. [[Applauds]] The non-legislative proposal brought to us this afternoon by the Socialist Group has much to do with one of the main demands of citizens' policy: equality. Equality is that there must be no privileges of either persons or territories; it is nothing other than the true real and effective equality of all Spaniards in obligations and rights, and not according to the postal code or the DNI, where they come from or where they reside. For this reason, from citizens in the field of health and social services, we are committed to geographical mobility and the equity of services and services in the same way in all the autonomous communities, a subject that the PSOE has seemed to care little about in the light of the number of times that our initiative has voted in this area, such as, for example, recently in the matter of the single health card, a measure that goes in line with and in the philosophy of this proposal that brings us this afternoon, since for the social health service and coverage there are no Spanish first and second or even third, unfortunately, in some autonomous communities, according to the indicators available to us. You will have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that up to this point in my speech I have used the word equality twice. Equality is what it is here or what we aspire to be the philosophy behind this non-law proposition. It seems that your Socialist Party lordships do not understand the meaning of the word equality nor even having an alleged master's degree for it. [[Applauds]] The initiative discussed here this afternoon presents two main causes for limiting assistance to dependents, when they move to other regions that are not their own. One, the lack of legal coverage to protect their right to such care; and two, the lack of effective coordination elements. Even being in favour of what is intended in this non-legislative proposal, above all because of the recommendation already issued by the Ombudsman in this area in 2015, where he recommends its application, there is no distinction - here is the crux of the question - between autonomous virtual borders in terms of the provision of services, which is reflected in the law itself, although this concept has never been developed in a real and effective way. We have tabled amendments which we humbly hoped will be accepted and which, by the tone of Mrs Ramon's speech, I do not know whether or not it will be so, because she has not informed me if she accepts any, but I would like significantly and beyond semantics to emphasize the last two points in the text of our amendment, which say literally: to establish that the assessments of the system for autonomy and care of dependency can be made in any province or autonomous community, so that citizens can opt for other autonomous communities that have a lower waiting list for evaluation, if they so wish, and to develop a single card of the system for autonomy and care of dependence that identifies dependent persons with recognized rights, so that they can receive the corresponding services and benefits at any point in the national territory. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, now that the PSOE is the party of the government and that the President, flying high flights, is at the forefront playing that role, please land now from these first hundred days. Such initiatives do involve real concerns of people and do not dig up the past to further divide and fragment society. We hope that they will soon bring the appropriate measures to correct this regulatory gap and thus facilitate the displacement of dependents, but above all listen to seven out of ten Spaniards who want to elect a stable government, with parliamentary weight, in order to be able to make decisions backed by dialogued majorities and not through records of decrees in just three months. We were not going to support the motion of censure after these hundred days in view of the trajectory. Anyone who speaks to them today, if repeated, would vote the same, but with two hands. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Salud Areste.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u59	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From our Confederal Group we will support this initiative of the Socialist Party, which urges the Government to guarantee protection to those dependent persons who move temporarily between communities. However, we find this proposal totally inadequate given the seriousness of the situation of dependency in our country. That is why we have recorded five amendments to the text which improve considerably, and which we hope will be accepted - we will see, because they have not communicated anything - because they are very important, given that we are in the middle of discussions on the next General Budgets of the State. I shall then comment briefly on the amendments. Law 39/2006 was then a very important step forward for those in need of support in their daily lives, and it was then supported by the United Left as a fundamental pillar of our social protection system. Also in the year 2012 United Left opposed the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of the Rajoy government, then denouncing the assault on the social state and the intolerable cuts in dependence. This Member has recently asked the Sánchez Government about the reasons why €44 million has been stopped in 2017, how the long waiting list is going to be faced, and what measures the Government will take to overcome the under-financing of the care system for dependency. The answer has been disappointing: nothing. No information is provided that clarifies what happened and much less what their intentions are going to be. We hope that at least the Government will comply with this non-law proposal, because the system has many shortcomings that require urgent action by the Government, and we do not just say so. The data provided by the State Association of Directors and Managers in Social Services, trade unions such as Workers' Commissions or UGT, among other social agents, are credited with this. We are talking about cuts totalling €46 billion. Twenty-four per cent of dependents do not receive any benefits from the system, despite having recognized the degree. The General Administration of the State has reduced funding to the Autonomous Communities and now the expenditure of the Autonomous Communities is set at 80 per cent and that of the General Administration by 20 per cent, away from the target of 50 per cent by each Administration. The long waiting list of persons who have requested their assessment remains unresolved. The gender impact of feminization of family care remains unevaluated, and more so after social security contributions have been withdrawn. And in the face of all this, we tell the Socialist Party that we must be more ambitious in urging the government to act now, that dependency needs funding immediately, but probably also, although that is another debate, a change of model in the medium term. That is why our amendments are in the line of reversing the cuts in the 2012 Royal Decree-Law, which we have implemented in the following areas: an urgent plan of EUR 25 billion to meet the people who have already made the assessment, but who have not yet received the benefit; the recovery of social security contributions from the people, mostly women, who care for a family member; a timetable for action to ensure the increase of funding to the autonomous communities until reaching the 50% funding target; the implementation of the gender impact assessment involving the feminization of care, and lastly, and in coordination with the autonomous communities, increase the budgets of all administrations by another EUR 25 billion to end the waiting lists. It should not be forgotten that the benefits would be not only for dependent people, that this would already be very good in itself, but would involve a real investment in employment of between 100,000 and 200,000 jobs. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, if there is already more than EUR 4 billion for war, there will also be more than EUR 4 billion for peace and care. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Health. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. This afternoon the Socialist Group is bringing to the debate a social initiative and a positive initiative that addresses one of the most important problems of the welfare society and one of the problems that most worries the Spaniards, which is precisely dependence, and of course it will not be my People's Parliamentary Group that will vote against any measure that can benefit the dependents. [[The lady]] But what I am sorry about - and I am very afraid of it - is that the background to the initiative presented to the House this afternoon was not precisely to bet on the dependents. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, are more interested in the holder than in the holders of the right to dependence, and so has the spokesman of the Socialist Group on social services, who has spent more time criticising the management of the People's Party than of course taking measures that could benefit the dependents. Your initiative could mean major and important reforms - in your opinion, the dependency needed them not even three months ago - but it has been very short in the small sum of this initiative, and it only talks about the uninterrupted coverage of dependents who move from one to another autonomous community. And I'm going to tell the people who are at home, the people who are out there and the people who really depend on them what the People's Party cares about. Dependents moving from one community to another are like a grain of sand in the desert. Ojo, it will not be me or the People's Parliamentary Group who say that a grain of sand does not make mountains, that it certainly does, but that it does not cease to be that, a grain of sand in the desert, for two reasons, and one of them is because this problem is already solved in the regulations. The Unit Act states that coverage is universal, and not only that, but that the competence to implement it rests with the Autonomous Communities, and therefore the obligations of each Autonomous Community of origin and destination are provided for when it is transferred to one dependent from one to the other. In addition, the number of cases moving between autonomous communities is minimal. I'll give you an example. In my land, Castilla La Mancha, the number of transfers processed per year does not exceed 400 files. However, there are other figures that do worry us, because they increase zeros and are absolutely chilling. Their Lordship of Podemos also participates in them, because I remind them that CastillaLa Mancha is the only autonomous community where the Socialist Party co-rules with Podemos, and they are responsible for the following figures: 8000 dependents awaiting benefit, 6400 applications awaiting valuation and 5000 dependents who have died during GarcíaPage's term of office awaiting the benefit. Mrs Ramon, understand now that the matter you bring us here today is a grain of sand. They've put the short lights on to do politics. You know that very well, because to talk about dependence we need to talk about autonomous financing, about general state budgets, and ultimately about economic forecasting. But we already know that his Government has other priorities. They are thinking of digging up dead, moving terrorist prisoners, paying the tolls of their investiture and the many corrections - one after the other - that have already been in their 100 days of government. That is why we know that its president Sanchez of autonomous financing does not speak, the General Budgets of the State are neither in nor expected, and I am very afraid that if they come into this House they will serve to put the red carpet to that co-government that was already announced by the leader of Podemos last week. Do not play with the dependents, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and above all do not play with them. If you want us to do something good for them this afternoon, please approve the amendment that the People's Parliamentary Group is putting before you, and we create a compensation fund between the autonomous communities, which are competent to manage this matter, preventing them from regenerating broken as they have done in the past, so that then the governments of the People's Party have to come and sew those broken. In fact, I know what we are talking about, because it was a People's Party government since 2011 that ensured the sustainability of the dependency system, and we did it by paying their debts, 1034 million euros that owed from the contributions of the non-family caregivers. We corrected the shortcomings of the system from which millions of euros were fled a year because of its lack of transparency. We are betting on quality care for the dependent, professionalizing care, and we have incorporated more than 600,000 people into the social security system. We believed in economic injection to the autonomous communities for their essential services, such as dependency. That is why in the 2017 and 2018 General State Budgets we injected 5400 and 4248 million euros, and increased the finalist departure of the state by 100 and 121 million euros respectively. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, this parliamentary group is almost happy this afternoon, because with this unpretentious initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group they have undoubtedly come to congratulate us indirectly. First plenary session, beginning of the session, and the main concern of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is nothing other than the transfers of dependents. We'll have done something right when that's your main concern about dependency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Navarro Lacoba. Mrs Ramón Utrabo, for the sole purpose of saying whether or not you accept the amendments tabled, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u63	I'm going to see some transactions with the rest of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u64	Perfect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u65	We then proceeded to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the reform of the autonomous funding model. For the group responsible for the initiative and for the defence of it, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of Mr Sánchez's claim to forget about the education, health and social services of the Spaniards until the next parliamentary term, the People's Group, by this motion, urges the Government to present immediately a new model of autonomous and local funding that guarantees equal access for the Spaniards to these public services, regardless of where they live, because social justice discourses cannot be given if the best funding for education, health and social services in our autonomous communities and municipalities is postponed. Or even worse, social justice cannot be talked about if some Spaniards are benefited or forgotten in front of others only by the territory in which they live, because then the aspiration of social justice becomes immediately the perversion of Peronist justiceism. Having achieved the objective of the motion of censure, which was that Mr Sánchez was at all costs president of the government, we warned that the emergencies had disappeared, that the best financing of our schools, our health centres and our social services did not matter, because Mr Sánchez was enough to be president, and being president a new era was opened for the Spaniards, as he said, the advent of twelve years of prosperity and social justice. However, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that the prosperity of the Spaniards and their public services does not inhabit the headlines or grandiloquence. You gentlemen of the Socialist Group think that with a headline or grandiloquence we no longer need to approve the spending ceiling, we do not even need to comply with the law and present a new spending ceiling in the following month if the first one has not been approved. Why do they break the law, ladies and gentlemen? Why has a new spending ceiling not yet entered this House? Is it the fault of the Lords of Podemos, because they have not yet dictated it to them? It is not worth, ladies and gentlemen, traps or shortcuts with the aim of eliminating the territorial voice of the Senate in the debate on what the stability objectives of our territorial administrations should be. It is that one day you rise up as the champions of asymmetric federalism, the other as the adalids of the nation of nations, and the third you set up a commission to empower the autonomous state, but your true face is that of authoritarianism of the spokesman of the Socialist Group, angry because it contradicted their will and willing to carry with little knowledge the representation of sovereignty in the General Courts. What a great farce, ladies and gentlemen; what a great farce! [[Applauds]] The truth of the matter, however, is that they cannot present a ceiling of expenditure, they differ in the graceful timetables of the 2019 budget, and they cannot address the funding system because their separatist partners demand bilaterality for Mr Sánchez to remain President of the Government, because despite Mrs Montero's commitment last day 27 in this House, they have decided to subject equality between Spaniards to the fact that Mr Sánchez remains President. They have decided to differentiate between Spaniards, that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and yet we, the People's Group, are not going to consent to that, we are not going to consent to that. The reality is also that they cannot have a ceiling on expenditure, nor budgets, nor can they address the reform of the financing system, because they do not know or have yet been dictated what the amount of tax revenue is. How will you know the tax revenue for next year, and therefore the collection, which is the basis for the distribution of the financing system, if Mr Sánchez guarantees a new tax haven with the diesel tax and his Minister of Industry says that this is a probe balloon? I look at the data, the diesel tax, which is very progressive and very social justice, because only very, very rich people pay it, which, as everyone knows in this country, is only 17 million Spaniards who use the diesel. [[Applauds]] How can they formulate a financing system based on the distribution of the tax basket if one day Mrs Montero's tax haven at the IRPF affects the rich, the next day the very rich, the other the very, very rich, or if the one who is already known as vice president of uncontrolled expenditure, Mr Iglesias, one day hits a tax haven at the self-employed under the euphemism of progressiveness, but at the same time imposes on us the tax on financial transactions, which is very progressive and very much of social justice? Everyone in this country knows that only the very, very rich take money out of the cashier or pay with the debit card in the supermarket. How is it possible to determine tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Sánchez on the same day, in the morning, with a firm hand of determination, deceives the European Commission, and in the afternoon, with the other firm hand of determination that remains, he follows the dictates of Mr Iglesias and commits himself to uncontrolled and full-handed spending? How is that possible, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party - I say this with respect - do not intend to take the Spaniards away, do not intend to insult our intelligence. [[Applauds]] It is such a disgrace, ladies and gentlemen, of these first hundred days of stretching in La Moncloa, that the Spaniards are only waiting on this issue of autonomous and local financing for a new correction, which they lack in these first hundred days of rectifications. Rectify, and instead of deferring the improvement of funding to the next legislature, present in the House a model of autonomous and local funding allowing better resources to reach our schools, our health centres, benefits to our dependents and those suffering from disabilities. Correct, ladies and gentlemen, because in these hundred days of rectifications they have not yet rectified enough. Correct, and do so urgently, because improving the financing of basic public services does not allow for any delays, and it is worth more than the fact that Mr Sánchez remains President of the Government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí Bosó. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca will fix his position on this occasion. [[Pause]] Isn't Mr. Martínez Oblanca here? [[Pause]] Mr. Baldoví Roda does.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have to see how well the opposition feels, they even make motions that we are able to vote for those of Compromises. Of course the change is brutal. But, as the Valencians say, come on! What a face the People's Party dares to make a proposal for autonomous financing! They had an absolute majority and they did nothing, they had almost two years and they did nothing, and today they present us with this small role of autonomous financing. [[shows it.]] Four lines is the contribution of the People's Party to a funding system that has been expired for almost five years. A report from Fedea with figures from the Ministry of Finance has come out today. The Valencian Autonomous Community in 2016 remains below the average in per capita income, in per capita financing, 211 euros less each Valencian and every Valencian, 694 less than the best-funded community, and above all we have worsened. You, Mr. Marí, as a Valencian, would have to know this. The People's Party has done nothing at this time, has done nothing to reduce the democratic anomaly of an autonomous community 12 points poorer than the average, and remains in solidarity with the richest communities. Its contribution to the autonomous financing system is this paper that only serves to talk about other things, not autonomous financing. Just the important things of every day are health, school, social services, but you present this to talk about many other things. That is why the Valencians of Compromis have tabled our amendments, and it is equally important that they do not accept them, because we will vote in favour of their proposal, because this is a matter of justice and it should start once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví Roda. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u70	Thank you, Madam President. There are some who when they are in the opposition have a speech and when they arrive at the Government they change the speech. I am lucky to be able to be consistent and claim the same when the PP ruled that when the Socialist Party rules, because one has a deja vu, closes his eyes and hears the spokesman of the PP say what the Socialist Party said a few months ago. The issue of autonomous financing is an important one that affects the essential services of citizens: health, education and dependence - we want the matter of dependency to be included in the funding system - and of course it cannot be further delayed. There's no excuse, the technical studies are complete. The amendment tabled by the Socialist Group says:... taking into account the particular situation of each autonomous community, the negative consequences of the delay are reduced. What are you saying, that historical debt is recognized in those poorly financed communities of 2014? Are you talking about these special conditions, such as the Canary Coalition, which is demanding that the communities we have surplus can invest it in the essential services of the community? In that regard, I believe it is urgent that the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council be convened. All communities have already analyzed the technical studies. Let us make a state-sense proposal, as did the autonomous presidents of the PSOE and PP communities yesterday, urging the government; your barons and your barons. [[Pointing to the seats on the right and left]] Let's get rid of PSOE-PP guerrillas, let's focus on what's there, because that's what affects what matters most to the citizens of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, we've changed your shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. As we have repeatedly stated in recent years, we agree with the urgent need for Spain to have a new system of autonomous financing that replaces the one that has been in force since 2009 and that responds to the constitutional mandates broken then by the disguised discriminatory Rodriguez Zapatero to the extent of the requirements of the Catalan tripartite. For the Forum, in addition to the regular system of financing that ensures the same coverage and quality in essential public services - health, education, social services and dependency - in all autonomous communities, it is essential to articulate the European model of cohesion of the national territory, allocating the annual budgetary appropriations for Chapter VI, investment, in the General Budgets of the State with criteria that preserve efficiency in the selection of public expenditure and equity in its distribution, avoiding comparative aggravations between regions. That is why we have tabled an addendum amendment which also responds to the joint programme with which the People's Party and Forum appeared before the Asturian voters and which, by the way, was the most voted in the general elections. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group brings back to this House the question of autonomous financing, which is very important because it is talking about social rights, the right to health, education and social services. It is true that it does so now, when the previous funding system, which consistently denounced for injustice, expired in 2014 and in that year the People's Party had an absolute majority. This delay, to a large extent, is also attributable to the People's Party. We have reached a compromise with that party in which we hope more groups will join. With regard to this compromise, in our amendment we proposed, first of all, that this issue should be brought forward as soon as possible, and the People's Party insists that it be brought forward in accordance with the draft budgets. But, given the delay in the draft budgets, which was paralysed in anticipation of the expenditure ceiling and at the request of legislative reforms, I think that we were right and that it should be brought in as soon as possible because it is not clear at the moment and we have seen the slightest glimpse of budgets in Spain. Furthermore, in our amendment, which has been accepted by the People's Party - which we thank you for - the constitutional principles on which a reform of the autonomous financing system must be based are included, because it is not worth saying that we simply want an autonomous financing system. The first of them is that of equality, a thing that has forgotten bipartisanship; she forgot about it yesterday a minister - she should almost say ex-minister - when she said that we are not all the same. [[Applauds]] And, indeed, not all of us are equal, nor in public services at the territorial level, but we should be much more equal. There should be greater equity and there should also be greater transparency and fiscal co-responsibility. However, we have not managed to get the People's Party to accept the issue of fiscal harmonization. Why? Because for them - and also for the Socialist Party - harmonization is an euphemism to raise taxes and the People's Party when it is in the opposition says that it does not want to raise taxes, that it wants to lower them. The reality is that a tax harmonization can be done downward, the Spanish can be given the right to pay less taxes, which is what we have done, for example, in the inheritance tax, not only by getting in places like Andalusia or Aragon to pay less inheritance tax - which does not happen in some places where the People's Party governs, like Galicia - but above all by bringing in a national law to eliminate the inheritance tax, giving more rights to the Spanish in all the territories and not less. [[Applauds]] Because we want to equal down taxes. In addition, we welcome the People's Party's change of mind, but it usually brings different things, one at each site: for example, Master Moreno Bonilla voted in favour in March 2018 of this document, which is the autonomous funding opinion. [[Show a document]] Here it says, with the opposition of Citizens and the vote in favour of all others, that the system of autonomous financing needs 16 billion euros more; 16 billion euros more can, of course, only come out of a rise in taxes of 16 billion euros. This is a lot of money. Let's think that the highest state tax increase in history made it Montoro in 2012 and it was 11 billion. Therefore, what the Socialist Party and the People's Party in Andalusia voted for - we can also, but that does not surprise us - was 'a montoro and a half' rise in taxes and that is barbarity. That is why we are voting against, because we are not voting on a different thing in each place, but we want more rights for all Spaniards. Allow me, in conclusion, to move from theory to practice. Since 2014, the system of autonomous financing has not changed, but this is not absolute because the system of autonomous financing of the outlying territories has changed. I mean, of course, that the only thing the PSOE, the Basque Nationalist Party, Podemos and the Popular Party agreed on was the coupon, to give greater funding to the autonomous community with greater per capita funding, and that is not exactly equal to all Spaniards or better access to public services. [[Applauds]] By the way, it is not transparency either, because it was done by an opaque procedure. As the highest expert on autonomous financing said - I am now concluding, Madam President - Mr De la Fuente, the coupon was magic. Well, it's a magic we ended up paying all the Spaniards. We have reached a compromise and we are satisfied that, even at the level of proposals, we are making it possible to vote for more equality today, which is always voting for less nationalism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u76	Thank you, President. We have had other examples this afternoon but this is the typical motion that the People's Group can present to a contest of cynicism and makes podium. Since 2013, in which the current autonomous financing system expired, it has been four years in which all they have done has been to make excuses, look away, not face the problem and leave the hot potato for which it comes later. [[Applauds]] That is, at least, we have had four years of governments of the People's Party in which they did absolutely nothing, and now they claim that the socialist government, in a hundred days, solves overnight a problem that has great political complexity. And if not, can you tell me why in your amendment they say that in the 2019 budgets that model appears on the basis of what the experts said in 2017, when you did not present it in the 2018 budgets? Can you tell me? [[Applauds]] First they told us that we were in crisis and that, of course, nothing could be done in that situation. For I say to you that on the contrary, that precisely the impact of the crisis on the budgets of the territories should have been an aggravation, a major reason to face the reform of the model, because the autonomous communities, and also, by the way, the municipalities, faced the worst years of the crisis abandoned by this government. They had to be in debt in order to guarantee public services, they had to get out of where they did not have to sustain social policies with which to alleviate, even if in some way, the lives of millions of people, and they had to face huge interests in their debt, which increased not by waste but by guaranteeing the welfare state, while the Spanish Government not only abandoned them, but stifled them when it remained with the lion's share of the deficit authorized by the European Union. Was the Government of Spain left with that party to guarantee the welfare state? To support social policies? No, to cut them off. And yet, it turns out we've been in debt for over a hundred percent of GDP. The question is, what have you done with that money? [[Applauds]] We were then told that there was a territorial crisis in Catalonia and that neither was there a climate to deal with the debate on the model. For once again they were wrong, because it was just the opposite. I am convinced that if they had addressed the reform of autonomous financing in a timely manner, territorial tension would probably have been reduced in Catalonia as well. Later, as the situation of doing nothing was already unsustainable, Rajoy committed himself in 2017 with the autonomic presidents to present a new model and the autonomic presidents, including the socialists, reached out to him to seek a consensus, to make it possible. Yeah, but 540 days later, I'd just thrown balloons out. First he set up a committee of experts, which, with particular votes and abandonment - which demonstrate the complexity of the matter - drew up a report. Then, as with that report, he had something to do, he said: I now set up a committee of technicians to study the experts' report. That's a hell of a question! This will have to be explained to us. The question is: After this, what did they do? Nothing. In all this time, in the four years, what did the People's Party government do in this matter? Did you make any proposals? Not a single proposal from the People's Party Government is known, let alone a funding model. Nothing. Did you do political work? Because the technical work was already, had the experts done, but the search for rapprochement with the autonomous communities, the politician, to seek consensus, moved? Because the communities had done their job, they had made proposals. Did you talk to the communities, the tax advisors, to get closer to positions? Absolutely nothing. I mean, thanks to you we start from scratch in political work, and you want us to start from scratch to fix this problem overnight. But this government has not been quiet in a hundred days; in these hundred days we have presented new objectives of budgetary stability that you, who are so concerned about the financing of the communities, have rejected, but which meant flexibility in the deficit targets so that the communities could have more resources to implement budgets that would allow them to make real policies: EUR 25 billion that you have rejected. It has promoted measures to improve the liquidity and financing of the most difficult communities: €762 million. And now - and I conclude, President - what we say to you, in an amendment that seems to me to be most reasonable, is that at this time, urgently, we conclude that political committee to do the political work, which begins to work this September and all that is agreed, all those measures that reach consensus in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council will be taken to the 2019 budgets. This is logical and reasonable, and this shows the huge difference between a government and a party that does what it does in its interventions is pure cynicism and a government that puts political will to solve the problems that citizens have. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u77	Thank you very much, Mr López Álvarez. Mr Guijarro García has the floor in the position-fixing round by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I would like to begin first of all by reminding the three women killed in Asturias, Madrid and Castellón this past weekend, hoping that it will never happen again. [[Applauds]] We see ourselves here today discussing autonomous financing at the request of a People's Party that is now in a hurry to fix a problem that they themselves chronicled. In fact, the explanatory statement for this initiative is nothing more than a cluster of unsolicited excuses to justify the almost absolute inaction that took place as a government for seven long years, as has already been said here, in the face of a plan that should be reviewed every four years. You have literally left this matter hanging since December 2013. By March 2014, all the Autonomous Communities had already issued evaluation reports on the functioning of the system, but the People's Party failed to fulfil its legal obligation to set up the standing technical evaluation committee, thereby blocking the reform of the autonomous financing system. So you were leaving a hole at 20 billion euros a year. However, at the height of cynicism - and this must be said so - they come to affirm now categorically in the text submitted to the motion that they left public accounts cleared. That's what they say. Of course they left them healthy!, by unloading the adjustment on the backs of thousands of families throughout the country, who saw essential public services disappear for their well-being because you, lords of the People's Party, had to boast of unspoiled numbers before the troika. To this day, my autonomous community, the Valencia Country, is the one that pays the most disembodied price of this lack of update, since it is the only one that turns out to be a net contributor despite having a per capita income 12 points lower than the national average. Does this not flagrantly break with the principle of interterritorial solidarity? What kind of state cohesion is intended when it does not even meet the first premise of the manual? Based on freezing the autonomous process and denying the necessary funding for public services transferred to communities, the People's Party thus completed its cutting machine, its public crusher. Now, just months from the start of an electoral campaign at an autonomous level, they come here with the defachability of 'what about mine'. However, we believe that the People's Party is right about one thing: there is a hurry, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and you know it, you knew it before in the opposition, when your then spokesman, Margarita Robles, was calling on Rajoy in this very House, in January of this year, to reform the autonomous financing system. It is a matter of utmost urgency, then said the spokesman Robles. Is it not now? We are at least EUR 45 billion right now in the public accounts of the Valencian Community and the debt has multiplied by three in the last nine years. At this time, public services have not improved, rather on the contrary. The rest of the state's autonomous administrations are not much better; in fact, they are also on the verge of economic asphyxiation. Are you going to explain to the citizenry that it has not been enough to tighten your belt for a decade? We have already said that the 78 regime shows unequivocal evidence of exhaustion, also with regard to the autonomic model. Don't we have your most dramatic symptom in Catalonia? From the Confederal Group we are the first to advocate renewing the contract between the State and its citizens to open a constituent process throughout the country that legally and democratically redefines the plurinational and solidarity Spain that we already believe exists in the social sphere. But we are not naive either, we are aware that the current correlation of parliamentary forces does not invite us to think about the great pacts for the reform of the state that this country needs; perhaps it is not in this legislature. However, the question of autonomous financing for 96 per cent of the population living under this tax system is simply indefatigable and the Government cannot wait for favourable winds, because that depends on the relief of many people who need it after having spent very hard years. It is possible to undertake useful and relatively rapid reforms in the coming months; to start the tax reforms that are now on the negotiating table, they must help. But the Government can also promote other actions from greater coordination between administrations to improve tax management to facilitate greater liquidity through the Autonomic Liquidity Fund or by avoiding the so-called tax dumping between communities that has spread so much in recent months. I would like to say to the Minister, if she were here, that I think she is aware that the Spanish families have been required to make a monumental and sustained effort over time and that patience has been exhausted; they simply are not in a position to accept delays in the reform of the system. You don't have all of you, we don't have all of you, more choice than being up to those demands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Guijarro García. Mr Bosó, for the purposes of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the agreement to a different extent expressed by the various parliamentary groups, we have also tabled a compromise amendment with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and with Foro Asturias, which already has the Bureau of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí Bosó. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United Nations may, in common, be invited to attend, on the subject of geotechnical and security problems in the recreating of the printing press and the prospects for social transparency and dialogue. [[File number 173/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u82	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the geotechnical and security problems in the regrowth of the Yesa dam and the perspectives of transparency and social dialogue. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u83	Pick up where we are. Good afternoon. It is up to us today to talk about the dam of Yesa as a result of the magnificent inquiry carried out before the summer - at that time - by my colleague Pedro Arrojo before the Minister of Ecological Transition, and in which various problems arose regarding this work that mainly affects Navarre and Aragon, but which is also an exponent of a model of water culture that begins in Francoism, in the 1950s, with a dam already questionable in its day and that generated even bad dreams for its then chief engineer, René Petit. In 2000, in those times when concrete was joyfully encamped in its width and which also came to basic issues such as water, issues of primary need, it had a time of worsening when it was decided in a non-consensuous manner, in a way, let us say, rather than rather imposed and without any kind of dialogue, to do a work of regrowth to supply water on demand, instead of posing a water culture that took into account the issues that were already being discussed in Europe and which subsequently crystallized in the Water Framework Directive, and also respecting the international conventions to which Spain is a party, such as the Aarhus Convention. That dam, made without consensus, that regrowth, was seen to have a number of problems. The first problem was social cohesion. It generated a very important controversy, both in Aragon and in Navarre, with certain conflicts that crystallized, for example, in detentions - and here we have to claim the memory of those '8 of Yesa', one of whom I have the honour of sitting with me in the Chamber - and which are an exponent of a social rejection that is evident when things are done in an imposed way and without consensus. But it's not the only problem. Another set of problems was created and the budget of this work may quadruple the initial forecasts and what has just cost is still to be seen. And then there was a serious technical and environmental problem. In technical terms, because the dam is located in a geologically unstable area, as some people belonging to both the University of Navarre and Zaragoza - and here we have to mention Antonio Casas and Antonio Aretxabala - who determine that there is a security crisis. Security crisis that was initially denied by those reports of the Administration that supported the work, but that were increasingly evident at the time that the slope moved and also forced to evacuate two nearby urbanizations, which generated a crisis of confidence in the administrations of still unpredictable consequences, and a risk and alarm. To this it was added that these forecasts of regrowth also affected in a very remarkable way the Aragonese peoples of the Pyrenees, who are those affected by the dam in terms of expropriations and also deforestations that negatively affected the way of life of their inhabitants and the expectations that they might have to stay in the territory. In Navarre it is known that there is an intense social alarm and immense waters below so it can happen in that dam. It may or may not happen, but if it does, the consequences are going to be dramatic and unpredictable and we are very afraid that if there is no dialogue and consensus and we do not generate confidence, we will certainly not calm that desire of the population to know what is happening down there. For this reason, different initiatives have been generated by some administrations, and it is worth mentioning here to the current Government of Navarre that, in its security powers, it is trying to make a report right now in order to know exactly what the real risk can be in this dam and what solutions can be given. We insist that the issue is not so much to do, determine or finish the works of an almost crowned prey as to know what the consequences may be of carrying out the proposed regrowth, which would mean filling the swamp's quota up to the maximum predictions that would create a real risk, apart from being useless given the current configuration of the Barden canal. Therefore, in our motion we propose a very simple thing to try to fix all these disguised people that have been produced through a socially and politically questioned work. The first is to open an interinstitutional dialogue. It is not possible for the Government to ignore the position of Governments such as those of Navarre or Aragon, the affected municipalities of Navarre and Aragon, and the general public in terms of hearing their views. This requires environmental regulation and that is a modern management of large infrastructures. Secondly, we must promote a study team that generates confidence. It is good enough of the current obscurantism of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation; it is good enough to hide information from the affected municipalities; it is good enough that the citizens cannot trust the institutions, which are the ones that have to give them the security of the consequences they assume for the environmental risks generated by the infrastructures. Regulatory actions in transit should be urgently considered in order to prevent problems that may arise if there are further slips on the slope. There is real concern in the area, and that has to be seen and prevented. We must stop those works that are not strictly necessary for the consolidation of the work and the prevention of these problems. It is not possible that as long as we are studying in a prudent and legitimate way what the consequences of this filling may be, we continue to plunder and throw public money into works that may not be necessary. We are talking about the works of Sigüés's tail or other kind of works that, in the end, may have no impact or usefulness to the citizenry. Finally, there is one very clear thing, and it is that we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. It is up to us to urge the Government to reform existing legislation and regulations so that we are not in this insecurity, so that we have clear regulatory limits to determine which borders we should not cross in terms of risk in works such as those in Yesa. We will win all; it will win citizenship and, of course, we will advance in the management of public works that are more respectful of the rights of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos Itoiz. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, I have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, who will also fix a position at this time, Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you for a little silence. There's a pretty considerable murmur.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. From the outset, Euskal Herria Bildu has expressed concern about allegations of lack of security and has supported the need to conduct reliable independent studies in order to know in detail the situation created by the regrowth works of Yesa. Once the results of these studies are known, it is when one should decide what to do with the works, counting on the Navarra institutions and the localities of the area. For this it is necessary to stop the works while the studies are carried out, to stop spending huge amounts of public money that so far have not managed to deal with the problems found, to the extent that it is the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation itself that has recognized that without future and important additional works on the right side of Yesa, the reservoir will not be able to be filled for security reasons. Thus, we are faced with a work on which there is no certainty and which can end without utility, but after multiple environmental, social, economic and security conditions. In view of the nil willingness to address the issue with the seriousness and rigour required by the previous Spanish Government, the Navarra institutions have been acting, and we understand that if there is a willingness now to take letters on the matter must be taken into account and, therefore, not thinking that it starts from scratch. That is what our amendment responds to, which, in favour of what is proposed, highlights what has already been done, the independent study launched by the Navarro Government, and calls for the new study that can be promoted to take into account and value the conclusions that are already being drawn. We also understand that, in accordance with what was agreed by the Parliament of Navarre last June, the regrowth works should stop, except as regards the safety of the same works and the dam, as long as the security issues are not clarified, basically by the independent studies in progress or to be carried out. In our view, therefore, it is not enough to paralyse the works around Sigüés. That is why, on the basis of the amendments tabled by our group, we hope that they will be accepted. It cannot be allowed to continue the budgetary miscontrol which the Court of Auditors' own report has drawn up, which amounts to 253.5 million of the amount implemented. And if we take into account what the 2018 budgets envisaged, there would still be another 188.5 million left to invest up to 442 estimated for Yesa's regrowth works. We are talking about an overcost of 110% in a project whose social interest is more than in doubt and which presents serious uncertainties about our security. I do not know if I have missed something that Mr Santos said in his speech, but it has not been clear to me what is going to happen with the amendments. Of course, from Euskal Herria Bildu we want to make it clear that, although it remains short, we would support the proposal. Of course, not making any proposal, such as the Socialist Party, or making a proposal in which there is absolutely no talk of paralysis is not acceptable to Euskal Herria Bildu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u86	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u87	Thank you, Vice-President-second of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm going to fix the position of the Navarro People's Union. Mr Santos, we have always been in favour of public investment in infrastructure that they develop, that they vertebrate, that they make progress and, therefore, that they generate wealth in the Foral Community of Navarre. We have always been in favour of these intelligent investments; you already know in what situation you have been, always against not the past works, for example, the reservoir of Itoiz, which today supplies the Navarra Canal, but also with regard to the swamp of Yesa all these years. And the same is true of current and future infrastructure, such as the high-speed train; you want a social train. Look, you have never wanted the progress of the Foral Community of Navarre, but we agree on one thing, Mr Santos, in the security of citizenship, in the security of families, but you cannot rely on security to question the professionalism of officials and technicians both of the CHE - Ebro Hydrographic Confederation - and of the ministry and of the government itself in Navarre, who have worked all these years for the regrowth of the dam of Yesa. Finally, I would like to point out that no one in your group has contacted us to tell us whether we are going to be able to vote separately or whether we are going to reach a compromise in the end, because on some points we do agree, but we are absolutely against the paralysis of such a necessary piece of work, especially in something as relevant as the water supply for the Foral Community of Navarre and for Spain as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Alli Martínez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u89	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will express the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this motion which questions the regrowth works of the Yesa dam, and we want to express ourselves clearly. We are, ladies and gentlemen, facing an investment of general interest that has been planned and is being implemented from dialogue and transparency, and that is being carried out with the proper guarantee of security. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, while appreciating the intention of your text, we cannot share it, at least in the terms in which it has been raised. Why do we say that this investment is of general interest? Because this investment, ladies and gentlemen, provides the necessary amount of water not to make viable, but simply to make credible the development objectives of the agri-food sector and the industrial sector, which will help to curb the drama of depopulation and underdevelopment in the territory. We say it is of general interest because it will help to counter the painful periods of drought that periodically suffer regions like Aragon. We say it is of general interest because it will also help to minimize the risks of the violent attacks of the Ebro that from time to time suffer the municipalities of the banks of Navarre and Aragon. We say that we are facing an investment agreed and dialogue because it is part of the political and social consensus that represents the support of more than 80% of the Aragonese Water Commission for nothing more and nothing less than three liters and because every step that has been taken has, ladies and gentlemen, been the subject of transparency and dialogue with those who have wanted to dialogue, of course. Dialogue and the will to agree are always improveable and perfectable, but there has been a will for agreement and dialogue. And we say that we are facing a safe investment, ladies and gentlemen, because security is not a concept that can be successfully handled in political terms. The safety is certified by the technicians and the safety of these works is confirmed week by week - not year by year, semester by semester or month by month, but week by week - by those who are professionally accredited for this. Safety is also always improveable, but this is a work, ladies and gentlemen, safe. Therefore, we cannot accept this motion because it is not true, as is literally said in its explanatory statement, that the works are being executed from authoritarian autism or from a reckless opacity strategy. This, simply, is false. And because it is not true, as it is also literally said in the explanatory statement of this motion, that this public investment is endangering the lives of thousands of people; it is literally said. This is not only uncertain, but also, let me tell you, it is very little responsible. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this motion. We appreciate its intention, but in the terms in which it is proposed we cannot vote for it, we cannot support it. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will at the moment put before the plenary of this House its own text on the future of these works. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, this investment is almost complete, it is at 97%. This is not a work that can be stopped without more. This investment is going to culminate, it is going to end in the benefit of the general interest from dialogue and transparency, and with all certainty, which is how it has been done so far. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Not long ago, before the summer, my parliamentary group asked the then Minister García Tejerina about whether the Government considered that the safety of the Yesa reservoir was guaranteed with the future works announced recently and the minister's response was: Your Honor, the works of regrowth of the Yesa reservoir in the Navarra Foral Community have all the guarantees of security and are moving forward at the planned pace; we have in Spain professionals and technicians with a lot of experience in the construction of this type of infrastructure. And it stayed so wide. Obviously, there is no longer that minister and neither is the party that was ruling at that time, but the situation of Yesa we fear is still the same. [[Rumors]] The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos In Comú Podemos In Marea filed a motion resulting from an inquiry and already from the beginning we say that we agree with most of the considerations made by that group. The concern shown by the motion is also shown by us, as I have commented to you, not only by the questions, but by all the actions that we have had in the Parliament of Navarre and those that the Government of Navarre itself has had before the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. [[Rumors]] On January 26, 2018, a resolution was published in the State Official Gazette announcing the hiring of works to demolish urbanizations and condition the slope of the right stairwell of the dam in Yesa. Later, the Yesa Regrowth Works Board, which was attended by the Government of Navarre, met, and the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation reported at that meeting for the first time that, without further important work on the right-hand side, the recreated Yesa reservoir could not be filled for security reasons. It was the first time they recognized that these works were needed. Of course, security is the greatest concern of my parliamentary group and the representatives of the Government of Navarre. And in order to ensure this safety, an interdepartmental working group was set up on the safety of this reservoir. [[Rumors]] The truth is that the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation had not provided all the available data or studies that could clarify the current state of the Ebro River and, as we were concerned about that, we asked the Government why they were not transparent and why they did not provide all the information. What we were concerned about was whether there was any concealment of the insecurities that could be generated by such works. The Government of Navarre had no news until its publication in the media of the works of conditioning the slope of the right stairwell of the dam of Yesa, and that seems worrying to us. In relation to these works, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation has already been notified that it should have the prior authorization of the Government of Navarre before its execution, the environmental authorization. Therefore, these additional actions on a slope that the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation already considers stable, together with the recognition at the board meeting that the filling of the recreated reservoir cannot be carried out without the execution of new works, are sufficient for us to generate some uncertainty about the degree of safety of this slope. Having said that - and as I have no more time - we consider that one should not be playing with security. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u92	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u93	The concern expressed by the Government of Navarre and by the parliamentary groups, I believe, is sufficient reason for a little more clarity. Let us hope that, if this motion is approved, the present Government will take note - since the previous one did not - of what is requested by the authorities and a group will be set up in this regard. As the rapporteur has announced, the statements and the experts' report - I too have them here - some very well-recognized in Navarre, such as Mr Aretxabala and others, clearly state what the situation is. Therefore, let us take the bull by the horns, be serious and hope that the new Government will agree to truly clarify and ensure the safety of this very important infrastructure. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u94	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about works of great infrastructures, we have to set an example, and I am going to pay attention and I am going to copy Mr Ramos a little bit, who always sets an example when he wants to define something or wants people to understand things well. The example of large infrastructure projects is like a film where the main actors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u96	One second, Mr. Garaulet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u97	He said that in this film the main actors are the People's Party and the Socialist Party. There are also secondary players, such as the party of the new Vice-President in Parliament, who in these cases - when we talk about hydraulic infrastructure - only defends the interests of a few, not of the total, and then we have distribution actors - of 3%. [[Applauds]] These new actors from the point of view of infrastructures, which are totally insolidary with the rest of the country, are the independenceists, with primacist positions packaged in DNA or HR. Besides, we have a script or a target. What's the point? The goal is the general interest, but when it gets a little steeped in the program there are always particular interests, there is always the partisan interest, the electoral interest, the business interest; what we define as capitalism of friends. What about the scripts? The scripts have flaws: shortcomings of the project, lack of forecast, the initial date is not known and neither is the final date known, a total lack of knowledge of the project, obscurantism, absence of reports, of mandatory actions, delays, forecasts that give rise to modifications that make it multiply by two, by three, by four and up to six times the initial budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are doing with infrastructure, this is what has been done in the last 20 years. And you know what this leads to? At the end of spaghetti western, where are the good, the ugly and the bad. The bad guys are there, many have not come; the bad guys are the members of their party and their party, who, by taking advantage of their power capacity, gain and have taken advantage of their own, affixing the work of the deputies and politicians of this country; and then there are the good guys, it's not us, it's the citizens, it's the people who put us here, it's the people who put public money, because public money is citizens' money - it's nobody's money, it's said; no, public money is citizens' money - they want efficient infrastructure, they want transparency in relation to infrastructure. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] That is where we are; we are for a national infrastructure pact that sets priorities for infrastructure making, with a national assessment organisation that prioritizes what infrastructures are needed according to two criteria, the criterion of social benefit and the criterion of economic benefit; an organisation that prioritizes infrastructure and stops having empty dams, airports without planes and highways that end up on a bench. [[Applauds]] This infrastructure is of general interest, is part of the 2001 National Water Pact and was also approved by 80 per cent of the General Council of the Aragon Water Pact. Why? Because it has benefits: an increase in the supply of irrigation, redoing 80 000 hectares of Navarre and the area of Bardenas - with d, do not get nervous - of Aragon, improvement of the water supply of Zaragoza - we know that the supply of the river Gallego has had to be withdrawn because of the lindane -, improvement in the lamination of avenues - avoid the avenues that pass every year; last year there were 40 000 hectares -. There are some of Podemos' party who say that avenues are good, that floods can become good. Tell the citizens of Onion this week or tell the owners of the 40,000 hectares or the family of the man who died last year. The ecological flow must be guaranteed and these regulatory actions are the ones that guarantee it. Ladies and gentlemen, this work is behind schedule, but if it is behind schedule it is for several things: because the initial preceptive studies were not well done and they had to be reworked, because there have been changes in consolidation projects, because there have been changes in the project from an environmental point of view, the quota has fallen by 19 metres...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u99	... because the DIA - the declaration of environmental impact - was signed by the current Minister of Ecological Transition. And there has also been a delay due to judicial issues, as you have been judicializing the process. And I'm going to tell you one thing: we do believe in security; security is fundamental. Mr Agirretxea, you speak of a lack of transparency. There is no lack of transparency. There are more than a hundred reports of road engineers, geologists, who are on the website of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation for people to know, and they are also known by the Government of Navarre, they are known by the affected municipalities and they are also known by the Zaragoza City Council. This is for a social benefit, Mrs de Bildu, because with this you will be able to redo irrigation and many of the land that is in Aragon, which is being depopulated because they do not have a form of subsistence, can be irrigation land, generate wealth, jobs, avoid depopulation and be a focus of attention. That's what happens in Aragon, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u100	Mr. Garaulet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u101	I'm done, Madam President. The joint government between Podemos and the Socialist Party makes inefficient water management. I hope and wish that the Aragonese and the Navarros will realize and in the upcoming elections choose someone who cares about them, not for them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u102	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u103	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to establish the position of my parliamentary group, which is already in advance that it will be against this motion. I listened attentively to Podemos's spokesperson and I heard a lot of lyrics and music. It is the usual; those who do not want progress for their land, those who do not want watering, those who do not want Aragon to have a future continue to bring here the same arguments. Let's vote that not because we go back to the usual, to manichaeism. The left, Podemos, are always right about water and the rest of us don't know how to do things. It is a permanent possession of the truth. And today, in a twist of nut, once the Yesa reservoir is almost finished - thanks, by the way, to the People's Party, which in the worst economic legislature has made an unprecedented investment -, it turns out that we can now what it wants is that the reservoir is not used. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this motion takes a qualitative leap: what it seeks is to confront territories. Until now this had not happened; Navarra had never opposed a strategic infrastructure for Aragon, as is the reservoir of Yesa. But we are faced with a political formation that basically lives from confrontation and even in this they try to confront us. The story repeats itself. This is exactly the same strategy that a few have been developing for a long time in other reservoirs. It sounds to me like the same story as Itoiz: the work was announced and the administrative front was automatically opened, hundreds of resources that crashed like Yesa's. He then went to Europe to protest, and Europe told them that Spain is a democracy, that Spain is a regime where things are done well and that things are resolved in Spain. You opened up the criminal front, seven criminal lawsuits that have crashed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u104	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u105	Seven criminal lawsuits that have crashed. By the way, of those criminal complaints, a Beaumont - I don't know if that sounds like it - I think today he has some important office in the government of Aragon, he used to minute large amounts, ladies and gentlemen. That was no problem. They then opened the violent front, as was done in Itoiz. It is true that the restraints were not cut, ladies and gentlemen, but there were attacks on the State Security Forces and Bodies and that is why there are people condemned. [[Applauds]] And now, when all this fails, you open the front of fear and you appear - I don't know who dared say it - Mr. Casas as a great guru, a great geologist who allows himself to say that he dictates by intuition, that geotechnics don't go with him. [[Mr Arrojo Agudo speaks words that are not perceived]] Yes, Mr. Rojo, head, but it's just that four professors from Geotecnia have analyzed Yesa. Do not come here to counter the opinion of someone who in Itoiz said that there was going to be a great tsunami, that there was going to be a great crack and, ladies and gentlemen, until today we are still waiting. It is the front of fear; that is the one you handle so well. Now we are on the last two, on the international front, that the international experts come, to fill themselves as well, and yours to be possible, Your Honor! But do you know what's going on? It's going to happen the same as in Itoiz. You brought in a guru. Mr. Arrojo came to say that Navarra's economy would not withstand that reservoir, and Mrs. Gesner said that it would never fill Itoiz. For Itoiz is full, and Navarra's economy was quite well until formations, including Podemos, have acceded to the government and, logically, everything is much worse. In the end, do you know what Itoiz's result was? The current councilwoman, who was the one with the legal affairs, bought a house to spend the weekends under the dam. This is the panic that caused the prey. It turns out that they are now complaining that the reservoir is not large enough and that the problems of southern Navarre cannot be solved. That is the reality, and a government casually - not suspicious - in which Podemos is in is with the second stage. Look, gentlemen of Podemos, it has cost a lot of effort and many years to reach the quota that is reached today in Yesa. That's the future of Aragon, that's the future of the waterings of Aragon. Someone was asking what reservoirs are for. Man, 90,000 hectares are being watered right now between Aragon and Navarre. If it seems to you that this is not a source of wealth, make it look a little bit. I want to tell you something: you are going to face the People's Party on this issue and I hope that many people from Aragon will. We are not going to go back on this issue, which is the future of Aragon, no matter how much you strive, simply because you are not right. Finally, I want to make a precision and a nuance to the citizen spokesperson. I am glad that at the end of the day you have cleared up and bet on Yesa, because in this it happens a little as with the inheritance tax. Today I heard Mr De la Torre say that they were clearly betting on abolishing the inheritance tax. Well, because in Aragon they bet just the opposite, for not abolishing the inheritance tax, on the proposal of the People's Party of Aragon, with which, Your Honor, I believe you have not been very successful today. [[applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u106	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Santos Itoiz whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u107	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u108	Thank you very much. In three minutes the votes began. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Rule 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Maria Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría Antón, I ask Don Mariano Pérez-Hickman Silván if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u110	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u111	Don Mariano Pérez-Hickman Silván has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u112	We vote, ladies and gentlemen, first of all... [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. We voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands amending Law 14/2013 of 27 September 2013 on support for entrepreneurs and their internationalization. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 plus 5 telematics votes, 327; 320 plus 5 telematics votes, 325; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u113	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u114	We now proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to amend Law 24/2013, of 26 December, on the electricity sector, as regards the procedure for authorizing the closure of electricity generation facilities. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 plus 5 telematics votes, 327; in favour, 137; against, 184 plus 5 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u115	Accordingly, that proposal is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u116	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress concerning the promotion of measures against tourismphobia in Spain. We will vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 252 against, 65 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u117	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ATTENTION OF THE SYSTEM OF AUTONOMY AND ATTENTION TO DEPENDENCE TO DISPLACED PERSONS. [[File number 162/000666]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u118	We now vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the attention of the Autonomy and Care System to the Displaced Persons Unit. We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and People's Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 317 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u119	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u120	We shall continue with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. First, we are going to vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the reform of the autonomous funding model. We voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and Mixed Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 169 against, 87 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u121	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United Nations may, in common, be invited to attend, on the subject of geotechnical and security problems in the recreating of the printing press and the prospects for social transparency and dialogue. [[File number 173/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u122	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the geotechnical and security problems in the regrowth of the Yesa dam and the prospects for transparency and social dialogue. We shall vote on it by points, first of all point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 70 against, 251 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u123	It's rejected. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we vote on the rest of the motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 69 against, 252 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-11-CD180911.u124	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
