ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the appearance at the request of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the House to report on the European Council, which was held on 28 and 29 June 2018, as well as on his government programme. I give the floor to the President of the Government. And I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a week like this four decades ago, in this very place, 258 Members of Parliament adopted the opinion of the Constitutional Commission on our Magna Charter. It was a first step in a path that ended on 6 December 1978 with the adoption in referendum of what our Constitution is today. In that Spain there were still discriminations that could not be understood by current generations. It was a Spain with almost everything to do, from its own Constitution to the territorial and local decentralization of the old centralist state from the dictatorship. A Spain in which Europe remained a distant aspiration. For millions of Spaniards and Spaniards that summer precisely forty years ago in this city, while 258 deputies were plotting the Spain they were supposed to be, thousands of people went out to the streets to claim proudly and for the first time their sexual freedom. Spain in which everything was about to be done began to walk accordingly with a step of fear and hope too; the fear of losing the newly conquered democracy and the hope of progress and freedom, which opened up in pairs as a result of that conquered democracy; a Spain still threatened by those who lived trapped in the nostalgia of a time that it meant for the Spanish repression and exile; a Spain struck by the terror that sowed death for decades, and whose defeat for democracy was certified this year. The generation then, ladies and gentlemen, understood that progress had to be made, making mistakes, since no one is free to incur them. In life, ladies and gentlemen, wrong is the one who walks, the one who moves, the one who proposes, because in the stillness of those who wait immobile for problems to be fixed alone lies the germ of the frustration of a society that ends up advancing its institutions through the path of history. In the account of these four decades there is time for joys and also for disappointments, but in the general calculation there are certainly more correct than mistakes. Today Spain is a consolidated democracy, homologable to that of all European countries, with an internationalized economy, with professionals recognized within and outside our borders, with leading companies in sectors of the future. Spain finally counts, ladies and gentlemen, with a social and democratic state of law whose final quality is recognized in the most prestigious rankings in the world, and with a level of political decentralization and self-government higher than that which many countries of federal court like ours have. In historical terms, ladies and gentlemen, this whole exercise of transformation and modernization has been carried out in a breath, in forty years, with the impulse, first of all, of the citizens who gave this support to the transformative political options, and also under the shared leadership of different governments who worked as best they knew, all of them according to their convictions and always serving Spain. It is society, ladies and gentlemen, that leads the changes to which politics does not always respond with the necessary speed, and that is why the main purpose of the new government is to walk alongside society; it is to put the watch on politics at the time of Spain; it is to accompany working men and women, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs; it is to be with disabled people; it is to earn quotas of equality between men and women; it is to serve urban Spain, but also rural Spain; it is to build an alliance between all generations; it is to care for those who are outside our country; it is to care for those who come to our shores fleeing from war and horror; to think about the generations that are to come and that deserve to inherit a sustainable planet, to warn against any kind of discrimination and hate crime; to strengthen the ties that unite all the peoples of Spain, and ultimately to place politics, our democracy, their institutions at the height of a solidarity, open and deeply European society such as is Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, a country that looks to the future must be at peace with its past, and with the baggage that our forty years of constitutional democracy give, we must do so with serenity, moderation and naturality. I belong to a generation that was born and grew in democracy, that has lived and worked outside Spain, and no democracy can afford monuments that exalt a dictatorship; neither can ours. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you that the political decision of this Government is firm: we are going to exhume the remains of dictator Franco del Valle de los Cadidos. [[Applauds]] And its materialization, in the absence of giving the last touches to the instrument that will make it possible, will soon be in very short space of time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u4	The wounds have been open for many years, too many, and the time has come to close them. Our democracy will have symbols that unite citizens, not separate them. Ladies and gentlemen, on 31 May, pursuant to Article 113 of our Constitution, I received the mandate of the majority of the House to form a government; I assumed what I consider to be the greatest privilege, the greatest honour of any citizen of our country, and I did so on the premise that such a government would have a joint composition that would be decidedly European, and with the firm intention of consolidating economic growth and the creation of decent jobs. [[Rumors]] I have promoted these commitments on a particularly intense European agenda in recent weeks, with trips to Lisbon, Paris or Berlin, with the participation of the Spanish Government in the European Councils and also at the NATO summit. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand Europeanism as most of Spanish society does, such as the commitment to the values that have made our continent an area of peace and freedom, cohesion and the defence of human rights. One of the first decisions I adopted as the head of the Executive was to host the ship Aquarius. I did so, ladies and gentlemen, first out of consistency with our own history, the history of compatriots who not long ago had to be exiled and exiled during the long Francoist night, who were welcomed, to quote some countries, in France, in Mexico, in Venezuela or in Argentina. I also did so in line with the values of solidarity that define Spanish society, and that we ask them to have other societies that receive our emigrant sons and daughters as a result of the lack of opportunities in our country. I did so in the end as a wake-up call to the European Union to act in favour of dignity and human rights. At the European Council the migration issue was central. Spain defended the idea that global challenges, such as migration, need to be addressed at European level. I did so from the value of our experience as a border country and of our relationship with countries of origin and transit. The result of the Council - I have said this publicly and I would also like to share it with you ladies and gentlemen - is not what the Government would have liked, but we kept something important, we kept alive the flame of a European migration policy, solidarity with the African continent, determined to build a common European asylum system, and committed, ladies and gentlemen, to something that would be important if it were not to break in Spanish policy, committed to preserving the free movement of people, which is the main foundation of our union and which is now being called into question by the European ultra-right. Solidarity and responsibility outside, but also within our borders, and that is the idea that explains why the Government defended the agreement with Germany for the reception of asylum seekers from that country. A month and a half ago, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for your support to push for change in our country, to free the policy from the leash of corruption and the lack of exemplaryness to which it had been subjected over the past seven years. If I have one thing to say, the motion of censure has served as a time change in Spanish politics. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] A change that should continue to cultivate and consolidate on the basis of dialogue and agreement. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u6	And I still think it's worth trying, because in the end the shortest line between two positions is always the agreement. By blinding the mere possibility of the debate, as has happened over the past seven years, we have ended up blinding the possibility of any kind of agreement for too long. So it's time to open that path. Although time is obviously limited, even more limited than that of a full legislature, there is much to be done and in many areas. The new Government has assumed this mandate of action from the first moment by deploying policies, rebuilding complicity and institutional relations that have been lost over the past seven years, either with the autonomous presidents, with whom I will meet, with each and every one of them, over the coming months, with the maximum representation of the municipalities or also with the social actors with whom I have met during this month and a half of the new Government twice. All this, ladies and gentlemen, for a few weeks in which the transfer of powers and the immediate urgency have not prevented us from marking a line consistent with the principles that explained the motion of censure that brought this new government. At this point I would like to make special mention of institutional normality as good news, as magnificent news that shows the strength of our democracy and also of our institutions. I would like to acknowledge the work of the officials, of the staff of the public administrations in whom, from the independence and vocation of public service, they constitute the framework of the State, which governs this country. [[Applauds]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I announced from the outset that the new government was going to have a European agenda, a modernizing vocation, a progressive inspiration and a feminist soul. In the territory of gender equality and the political representation of women Spain now has to be the first OECD country with more women than men in the Council of Ministers. We have complied with the famous parity rule, 60-40, 60% for women and 40% for men. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to move the agenda for change that the government intends to lead, and we hope that with the majority support of this House, an agenda for change that will be underpinned by four fundamental pillars. The first, to consolidate economic growth and the creation of decent jobs; the second, to advance in equality and social cohesion; the third, to regenerate our democracy and strengthen our territorial cohesion, laying the foundations for the solution of a long larva crisis, which is Catalan, and the fourth, our active participation in the European construction and the role of Spain in the world. I turn now to the first of the objectives, which is undoubtedly the most important: to consolidate growth and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, just a decade ago the first clashes of the economic crisis struck our society with an unknown force until then. Spain has had to pay a high bill to overcome it, an invoice that has driven millions of Spaniards out of the labour market and closed thousands of companies, an invoice that has broken our social cohesion and widened as never before the limits of social and territorial inequality in our country. Unfortunately, our country leads all the ranks of inequality, the most serious inequality among young people, the most painful child poverty. Young people are the main victims of the crisis, but also of the wrong policies in crisis responses as a result of cuts and austerity in educational policies, by setting an example, or in housing policies, by quoting another, without forgetting the wheel of job insecurity to which they are condemned. Without cohesion we have frustrated the expectations of entire generations who grew up believing in merit and effort. Without cohesion, societies become insecure and selfish, lock themselves in themselves and lose the necessary confidence in their democracy and institutions. Ten years later Spain has finally recovered the level of per capita income, but it has done so with 1.6 million less occupied, with a forced emigration of many very young people out of our country, with a high youth unemployment, with less active population, particularly among women, and with a long-term unemployment, which is our country's main challenge in this area, and the wage devaluation that has given the figure of the poor worker a letter of normality. Spain therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is growing, yes, but it does not redistribute that growth. Spain grows, yes, but at a stroke of precariousness and not productivity. Spain is growing, yes, but raising its CO2 emissions outside of climate change and its impact in urban Spain and also in rural Spain, where the risks of forest fires, water shortages and depopulation are already its main challenge. Spain grows, yes, but on the basis of the fiscal effort, let us recognize it, of the middle and working class, not of the large business conglomerates that evade their fiscal responsibility, and therefore what they do is to erode the tax revenues that support the pillars of our welfare state. The most obvious proof of what I am saying is that, after years by the previous Administration of raising taxes to the middle and working class, to the self-employed, to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, after years of fiscal adjustment and cuts in the welfare state, Spain's public deficit is the highest in the European Union, 3.1% of the gross domestic product, compared to the average of 1% in Europe, and with a debt volume close to 100% of our gross domestic product in an exceptional, extraordinarily positive and favourable financial context thanks to the expansive policies of the European Central Bank. So, what can be done, ladies and gentlemen? In economic policy the agenda for change we propose has the following points, on which - I believe - the majority of this House can be recognized in its government. Firstly, budgetary stability and cohesion. Our aim is to combine the necessary consolidation of public accounts with the reconstruction of our welfare state. It is possible; other countries have done so, and we too can do so. This requires an explicit commitment to the budgetary stability that the government assumes in the first person, especially at the door of an important goal for our country - at least as we understand it - as it is to emerge in 2019 from the corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. As you know, this government has proposed the modification of the stability path for the next two years: 2.7% of the gross domestic product of public deficit in 2018 instead of the 2.2% proposed by the previous government, and 1.8% in 2019 instead of the 1.3% foreseen by the previous government. These objectives - I think this is very important for the debate that can be held in the coming weeks and months - are, first and foremost, consistent with the economic evolution of our country. They are consistent with the estimates made by the European Union, the Bank of Spain, the AIReF and the main economic study services of our country. And they are consistent - this is most important, at least for this government - with the social needs of our country. In this regard, I would like to announce the following. The additional 5 tenths of the deficit will be distributed among the different levels of public administrations, so that the autonomous communities would have an additional 2 tenths, moving from a public deficit target of 0.1 to 0.3 per cent of gross domestic product, and these 2 tenths would translate into some EUR 24 billion of additional tax margin for the whole of the autonomous administrations. The Government will convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council on Thursday, 19 July, and on 20 July it will adopt it in the Council of Ministers. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, to have the support of the majority of the Chambers. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Spain is taking a step forward in defending an open and solidarity Europe project. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u7	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u8	I defended it and announced it at the European Council. That future goes by pushing forward what is called the fiscal pillar of the euro, with a budget that serves as a tool not only for the stability and competitiveness that many of the countries of northern and eastern Europe tell us, but also for convergence, which is necessary if we are to achieve that stability and competitiveness. In this regard, the Mesenberg Agreement between France and Germany, which was signed a few weeks ago, constitutes a step forward in the construction of this fiscal pillar. We support him and strengthening that commitment will be the main message I will convey to French President Macron on his first official visit to Spain on 26 July. On a key issue, such as the banking union, the Member States have agreed that it is the European Stability Mechanism that provides fiscal backing for the Single Resolution Fund, and that further work - this is one of the main bets or commitments of the Government of Spain - to create and implement the European Deposit Guarantee Fund once and for all. Both instruments, in the opinion of the Government and the majority of the House, are fundamental to preventing future banking and financial crises, which we have also suffered in our country. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the new Government is aware that there will be no social justice if there is no fiscal justice, without contributing more to what they have, which is not what has happened so far. If the former Government did nothing but raise taxes to the middle and working classes, to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the new Government would not raise taxes to citizens on foot, but it would require a greater tax effort on large business conglomerates. [[Applauds]] Our priorities, ladies and gentlemen, will be, first of all, a taxation that takes into account the impact of technology companies, which do not pay taxes. This is an issue where there is broad consensus within the European Union. Secondly, redesign our corporate tax. We do not resign ourselves to the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises have higher effective rates than the large business conglomerates in our country. This is not fair, so what we are going to propose to the House is that the effective rate of large corporations should approach the nominal rate and in no case be less than 15%. This is called, ladies and gentlemen, fiscal justice, and that is what this government is going to approve and what it is going to be betting on. [[Applauds]] In the area of the necessary ecological transition, a package of tax figures must be designed to discourage practices that harm the environment. And in line with the resolutions of the Toledo Pact, along the same lines that other European countries are certainly doing, we will launch a finalist tax figure linked to the financial sector that complements social security contributions, and contributes to sustaining the public pension system and the dignity of our seniors' pensions. Finally, but not least, we are going to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to dwell on the debate on the tax amnesty adopted by the previous government, and the statement by the current government that it is unable to publish the list of amnestyes. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group who brought the appeal before the Constitutional Court on the grounds that this amnesty was illegal and unfair, and we reaffirm that conviction. Secondly, the previous Government, to justify the tax amnesty, planned to raise EUR 25 billion, and did not even reach half. That is to say, in addition to the fact that this fiscal amnesty was a moral failure, it is also from the collection point of view, and we also reaffirm ourselves in this conviction. Thirdly, the tax amnesty already has a very harsh ruling by the Constitutional Court on the previous administration. The Constitution declared amnesty null, but also - and this is important for the House to know - it expressly ruled on the non-retroactivity of amnesty. Therefore, unfortunately, it is not possible to review the cases which received this amnesty, and this impossibility affects, ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution, the publication of the names of the persons who received it. Therefore and unfortunately we cannot modify a past already condemned - I would like to believe it already - but we can avoid new fiscal amnesty. It is for this reason that I announce that the Government will present a preliminary draft law on preventing and combating tax fraud in order to prosecute large fraudsters, to include in the list of debtors those responsible for supporting that delay, to update the list of tax havens and to prohibit future tax amnesty laws. [[Applauds]] Let there be no tax amnesty in our country again. This is the commitment of the new Government: fiscal justice to achieve social justice, that there will be no tax amnesty again. A welfare state of first instance, ladies and gentlemen, demands a tax system of first division and not of third, such as the one we currently have. Ladies and gentlemen, fourthly, I think it is important to stress the government's commitment to creating jobs, and that this job is worthy. Spain brings with it an endemic problem of low wages, which is explained not only by the low evolution of our productivity, but also by the decline in the bargaining power of the workers, favored by the labour reform of the previous government. Segmentation and the high temporality associated with low-quality jobs and low wages constitute a reality that cannot be assumed by this Government. The Government intends to act in the following directions. Firstly, to ensure that wages regain the weight they had in the distribution of national income in the pre-crisis period. The line of wage increases agreed by the social partners within the framework of the State Collective Bargaining Agreement affects precisely that direction - we already support it from the government and also when we were in opposition to the famous and so-called income pact - the one to increase the minimum wage per agreement progressively to 14 000 euros, and annual increases of between 2 and 3% in the period of validity of the agreement. The first of the objectives therefore concerns wage increases and the equitable sharing of wealth between business profits and wage incomes. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is to approve a master plan against labour exploitation. We will do so in the Council of Ministers before the end of July and it will lead to a shift in labour policies developed in our country since the 2012 labour reform. It seeks to implement policies and instruments to eradicate deregulation of working conditions and precarious working conditions with the involvement and coordination of all administrations and social dialogue, with the participation of trade unions and employers. This same summer plans will be put in place to combat fraud in unjustified temporality and abusive partiality. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a decisive and clear bet on employment of equal quality and with rights. [[Applauds]] It seeks, inter alia, to put an end to temporaryity, abusive partiality, the use of false self-employed persons, excessive working hours, illegal overtime and discrimination on grounds of race, gender, age, etc. It seeks to enhance the prevention of labour risks and to combat labour fraud and the submerged economy. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, the design of active employment policies and training appropriate to the specific difficulties of our labour market is another axis of action for the new Government. Active employment policies must anticipate a reality that is experiencing changes in the new forms of work of Industry 4.0. We need to make progress in adapting curricula to new occupations, in anticipating major changes to tune up the supply and demand for new job skills. Ladies and gentlemen, you know better than anyone that the world is changing around us and the public authorities cannot be mere witnesses of that change; on the contrary, you have to lead it, you have to open the way, you have to chart the path in order not to leave anyone behind. Nor are we strangers, ladies and gentlemen, to the wage gap suffered by workers - especially women workers - and we therefore support the handling of the laws on the wage gap and equal work that the House is debating. And, last but not least, young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the triumphal account of the exit from the crisis almost always omits the memory of what we have lost all these years on the road. There were harmed - there are still, and many - in all age bands, but the footprint of this lost decade has left a deep scar in a generation faced with an invisible wall, which is that of frustration. That generation is marked by disenchantment. We have lost too many, we have lost hundreds of thousands who are now developing their professional careers outside our country and many others who, when they have re-entered the labour market in our country, have done so under unworthy wage conditions or in jobs that have nothing to do with the training they had received. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement I want to make to you today is that in the coming months the Government will launch a shock plan to create youth employment, which will review and promote relay contracts and practices; new instruments of active youth employment policies will be put in place; a new regulation of non-work practices and fellowship programmes will be developed; the status of the fellow will be created and extracurricular practices will be eliminated. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to finish the chapter on the labour market without mentioning the commitment of the Government of Spain to repeal article 315, paragraph 3, of the Criminal Code, concerning the aggravated criminalization of offences related to freedom of association. [[Applauds]] With the creation of the Ministry of Science and Innovation and with the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, the Government places as a priority objective in economic policy the change of productive model. Spain must expand its growth engines. Tourism and construction are important, fundamental, create jobs, create wealth and must continue to do so. Of course, the Spanish Government is going to push and support - later I will make some reference to the same - the dynamism of these two important sectors for the creation and wealth of our country, but it must also increase the number of growth engines by driving the science and reindustrialisation of our country. Spain cannot remain outside the revolution that will mark the future of our employment, of our productive sector and also of our welfare model. The years lost due to the lack of implementation of the budget in science, in R+D+i, and the decline in public investment that has represented the abandonment by the previous Administration during these years have positioned Spain in a place that does not deserve its economic characteristics. We therefore have an obligation to reconquer the lost ground, not to surrender to that false stonework that they invent, in reference to the Europe that today welcomes Spanish researchers and researchers who here did not find a place; so no, ladies and gentlemen, to invent here in Spain. This is the main commitment of our Government. This Executive is firmly committed to increasing funds for science, for R & D+i, as well as to raising the chains that prevent the effective execution of budgets allocated to renowned Spanish scientific centres and leaders in the world and in Europe. It is also essential to advance public-private collaboration in this area as a way to intertwine intensively the productive fabric with the knowledge that comes out of the university. And in this strategy of modernization of our productive system, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that vocational training must have a fundamental role, both in order to be present in the name of the new Ministry of Education. In this area, the Government proposes three priorities for action: firstly, to include in a single catalogue courses, modules and training cycles of the two vocational training subsystems under the same curriculum; secondly, to regulate dual vocational training once and for all in our country and, finally, to draw up a map on the adjustment of the supply and demand for medium and higher vocational training in the autonomous communities, as well as the emerging specialties of the new economy. The new government, on the other hand, shares the European Commission's objective that industry should account for 20% of the gross domestic product in 2020 in our country. As a result of this commitment, industrial policy must revolve around digital transformation and internationalisation. Small and medium-sized enterprises will be the cornerstone of this strategy. The search for new forms of financing, the reduction of administrative obstacles and the determined support for the entrepreneurial initiative will be an essential part of this same strategy. Our country has great strengths in specific sectors that we cannot miss, such as in renewable energy, and in that and other areas this Government assumes the firm intention to accompany the dynamic sectors that generate wealth and also opportunities, sectors that have as protagonists SMEs and also the autonomous ones and that project the external image of our country. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of talent in Spain, as much as recognition we get out, and very little means to take advantage of it. What is involved, therefore, is to accompany this talent with means, and I believe in a government that walks alongside innovators who open doors to trade and do not conform to favorable inertia. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would also like to transfer something important to you for this government. Spain, Europe and I believe that the international economy, too, after the statements and attitudes that we are seeing in recent weeks by some foreign leader, are facing a period of uncertainty in areas such as trade policy. Spain will defend, as it argued at the European Council, the need for the European Union to remain united in its response to the protectionist measures announced by the US Administration. In the field of tourism, we want to push forward the 2030 agenda in order to incorporate criteria of responsibility and sustainability, because it is ultimately nothing more than something that the tourism sector systematically tells us, and it is that we need to modernise, that we need to improve the competitiveness of the tourism sector without taking advantage only of the tailwinds, the deep political crises that affect regional competitors who, of course, see their level of tourism influx reduced. The change of productive model must be sustained in all departments of government action, also in the field of infrastructure, where our work will be based on transparency and realism based on three axes: the first, reorienting the transport system from parameters of quality of life, social and territorial cohesion and impulse of the productive economy; the second, do so with the consensus of the autonomous communities and also of the municipalities - that is the philosophy that will be present, for example, in the elaboration of the national plan of proximity to urban mobility - and the third, bet decisively on transparency, digitalization, efficiency and social evaluation of investments in infrastructure. It is time to rescue a genuine housing policy, ladies and gentlemen, at the service of the citizenry, especially in the area of rents. This question makes us propose the following. First, increase the forcible extension of leases from three to five years, limit the additional bonds that the tenant has to provide to rent the house and adjust the definition of seasonal leases to exclude tourist housing from the Urban Leases Act. [[Applauds]] We will also redirect the 2018-2021 State Housing Plan towards public housing and rental housing. We intend to promote a park of twenty thousand - twenty thousand - public housing within four years destined indefinitely to rent in those municipalities with accredited demand. When we talk about infrastructure, we also talk about vertebrating the territory and equal opportunities regardless of where it resides. This statement is particularly relevant in relation to rural Spain and one of the fundamental elements for its economic development, such as agriculture and fisheries. I had the opportunity to address relevant issues in this sector at the recent European Council. Among them, I would like to reiterate here, in the Chamber of Congress of Deputies, the commitment of the Spanish Government to defend black olive producers against the effects of protectionist policies that some countries are promoting. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in the process of negotiating the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the reform of the common agricultural policy from 2020 onwards, and for this government the common agricultural policy is a matter of state. That is why we are going to defend with the widest possible consensus a strong CAP, with a budget in line with the major challenges, such as the fight against climate change and the preservation of the environment. We already have the support of the main representatives of the sectors concerned, the autonomous communities, and we are convinced that we can continue to expand new alliances with Member States and also with the European Parliament, which has a great deal to say on this issue, in order to achieve our objective of maintaining a budget in this fundamental policy for Spain. In short, we need a powerful European policy to maintain and develop the rural environment, which offers opportunities for women and young people to live and work, avoiding depopulation, which is this silent disease that affects much of Spain's territory, and also to develop a more competitive and sustainable forest agri-food sector. This Government is aware that agriculture with a future implies rural Spain with a future. Ladies and gentlemen, the ecological transition of the economy is essential for changing the productive model and for consolidating sustainable economic growth. This Government wants to look at the economy from an ecological perspective, seeing opportunities where others see threats, so we set ourselves three major policy priorities for this mandate: first, to adopt a law on climate change and energy transition; secondly, an integrated national energy and climate plan; and thirdly, a comprehensive plan for technological innovation and economic development of the energy transition. As you know, we face obvious, real threats. We are a country exposed as few to the threats of climate change. The volume of CO2 emissions in 2017 - take this data into account, ladies and gentlemen - of 338 million tonnes, represents an increase of 4.4% compared to 2016 and is the largest, in annual terms, since 2002. This Government intends to promote this ecological transition, to do so through a fair transition in those areas affected by the change in the energy model, and also to place civil society at the centre of its work in this area, betting on measures such as energy self-consumption. We want to remove barriers, barriers to a revolution that we believe can be a citizen, that will democratize our energy system and that will turn citizens, businesses and institutions into agents of change in that energy transition. Finite resources, limited resources such as water, ladies and gentlemen, require medium- and long-term approaches. That is what we said when we were in the opposition and we want to exercise it when we are in the Government. A coherent water policy cannot be limited to the mere desire to see if it rains, as the previous Government did. There is much to be done in a field in which there is a lack of consensus and a short-term look. The Government will work on a new water culture. We are going to promote drought plans and we are going to implement investments, ladies and gentlemen, planned and financed with European funds in many cases and in which we accumulate delays involving the risk of returning those funds to a country with a drought and water problem as obvious as we have. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, the second pillar of the agenda for change is to move forward on equality and social cohesion. We are aware that we start from a good base. Despite its shortcomings, our welfare state has solid foundations, and that solidity is born of affection - especially affection - with which Spanish society looks at the services and public servants of our welfare system. They are the ones who have mobilized against the cuts and they are the ones who do not understand that a Government eliminates what cost so much to build and lift. Our welfare model has socially and territorially cohesiveed Spain over the past four decades and will continue to do so for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government is not only seeking to recover and rebuild, but to strengthen and advance the consolidation of a welfare state prepared to respond effectively and equitably to new inequalities. The main challenge we must address is the sustainability and dignity of our public pension system, which is the vault key to our welfare model. Ladies and gentlemen, the data on the public pension system you know, and therefore I do not want to go deeper into them or recreate myself either; there is the deterioration of the public balance of the social security accounts, there are the income problems, which are not going to be alleviated solely and exclusively by the necessary job creation - especially when that job is precarious - there is the requirement to replenish a pension fund, the Social Security Reserve Fund that the previous administration has eschewed, and there is the moral obligation, which reminded us many older people on the streets of Spain over the past few months, to guarantee decent pensions that do not lose purchasing power. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is aware of this challenge. Probably, together with the challenge of unemployment and the challenge of Catalonia is the most important challenge we have as a society and as institutions. We are not strangers to him and, of course, we are going to offer solutions to this House. In this regard, the Government is reaching out - I repeat, it is reaching out - to all parliamentary groups to build a new Toledo Pact. Let us together find solutions to the major challenges in an issue in which society does not understand the inability to reach agreements on the part of the various parliamentary groups and also of the Government. In our view, in the view of the Executive, the sustainability of our public pension system should be based on a long-term change in the productive model - that is undoubtedly - in which the weight of wages regains the strength of the workforce in indefinite recruitment. It is not sustainable - and we all know this - a model that penalises indefinite recruitment in the face of contracts of limited duration; this is what makes us now have the same number of social security contributors as before the crisis and, instead, we collect less, not only because such abuse, therefore, is fraudulent, but because it establishes in society a vision of immediacy, of denying us the ability to think in the medium term and in the long term, in the future of our country. One of the most dramatic effects of this decade is summed up, ladies and gentlemen, in a fact which, in our opinion, is very alarming and which was thrown by the National Institute of Statistics a few weeks ago: we are less and less, ladies and gentlemen. In ten years, 25 per cent fewer boys and girls have been born in our country. That is Spain's silence of the crisis, that of the peoples who lose population, that of the women forced to choose between maternity and professional careers, that of those who left and have made their lives outside our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government believes that combating child poverty is about strengthening social security, that advancing equality and cohesion is about strengthening social security, that reconciling work, family and personal life is about strengthening social security, that investing in education and health is about strengthening social security. That is why, in the face of an obvious risk situation inherited from the previous administration, such as that for us to manage and share responsibility, we have an obligation to act, and this government will do so on the basis of four axes that it proposes to the House: firstly, to rationalise social security spending and strengthen the financial balance of the system; secondly, to ensure the adequacy of pensions; thirdly, to promote measures that rebalance the gap in the protection of men and women in matters of conciliation, permits and surpluses and, fourthly, to improve the protective action of the system for the most vulnerable groups. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of society has clearly set us a path, and it is that of updating pensions according to the cost of living, and I trust - I trust, ladies and gentlemen - that as large a majority as possible in this House joins this proposal to accompany society in the demand that it already understands as its own, which no longer assumes as a graceful concession of power but as a right. [[applause]] So, I reiterate: the commitment of the Government of Spain is to reach out to build a new Toledo Pact among all, and I am convinced that the society represented in all its generations would support such an agreement in this House. Let's make it possible. To advance in equality and cohesion is also to appeal to the civic value of the National Health System; I will do so on the basis of a fundamental idea, ladies and gentlemen, and it is to adapt our model to the demographic, social and technological needs of our time, and to do so from the investment in technological capital and human capital present in the extraordinary professionals of the system and in investment in research. Ladies and gentlemen, equality is an essential principle of the Government in terms of health care, as is empowering the patient in decision-making. If we are talking about equality, we are talking about ensuring, for example, that a lesbian woman or a single woman has access to assisted reproduction in the public health system, which the previous Government has eliminated and this Government has recovered; if we are talking about empowering the patient and his caregivers on issues of decision-making, we are also talking about moving forward on fundamental rights such as the regulation of euthanasia. The Government supports the processing of this important law, which, if it proceeds, as we hope, will mean the conquest of new rights and freedoms for Spanish society. [[Applauds]] We understand that the right to health protection assists all people in our country. Measures already announced such as the recovery of universal care or the reformulation of health co-operatives are part of this philosophy, and in this endeavour we will have very much in mind the competent sharing of our institutional architecture. We know that health is mainly in the hands of the autonomous communities and therefore we will strengthen cohesion, the co-decision of the autonomous governments within the framework of the interterritorial council so that our National Health System is efficient, sustainable and transparent and ensures the equality of all Spaniards live where they live. There are three proposals in this respect which I would like to emphasise in relation to the national system of dependence, which has been abandoned in recent years; the cost in non-economic but mainly social terms is in the figures which you know and which I do not need to mention. The commitments, the proposals that will be put forward in the Government to the House are as follows: first, to recover funding from the minimum level set prior to Royal Decree-Law 20/2012; secondly, to move towards achieving the funding cut to the system at the level agreed with the autonomous communities and, thirdly, to recover the special agreement in the social security system for non-professional caregivers, who are mostly women family members of those dependents. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, all poverty is an infamy, but childhood, which affects 28% of our children, is simply unacceptable. We cannot accept that thousands of children in this country start a life that must be full of illusions with a burden of frustrations and deprivations that they do not deserve. Everything we invest today in this struggle has a guaranteed return in the future for society as a whole. That is the philosophy behind the creation of the High Commissioner for Combating Child Poverty, under the presidency of the Government; it is also the philosophy of the VECA Programme, adopted by the Council of Ministers and which will complement many of the actions that are already being implemented by many municipalities and many autonomous communities now that children are on vacation - schools are closed - to ensure breakfast, food, dinner and leisure for children during the summer months. The fight against child poverty is the fight against the worst of all poverty, which attacks from birth to adulthood as a brake on equal opportunities; it affects, ladies and gentlemen, 1.2 million children living in households with incomes below the poverty line. There is much to be done in this area. This is also due to the Government's commitment to reactivate the PROA programme of school reinforcement and our intention to end the disproportionate increase in the number of pupils per classroom. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to convey to you a personal reflection. We should assess whether it is appropriate to talk about school failure in the terms in which we usually do it. How can a 12-year-old fail? How can a failed child be a child who has not had stimuli at home but deprivations? Failure in childhood is not the failure of that child, it is the failure of society as a whole. [[Applauds]] Inequality starts at an intolerable age for a country that exhibits values such as those that identify ours. That is why this Government intends to eliminate the aspects contrary to the principle of equal opportunities and school segregation that drags a law born without consensus or agreement in this House or, of course, with the educational community, such as the Lomce. The new Government understands that the subject of Religion must not have academic value, just as it understands that there must be a subject of civic and ethical values of a compulsory nature. It is not a question of choosing between two alternatives, ladies and gentlemen, but of giving the values and principles that underpin coexistence in democracy, the civic and ethical values present in our Constitution the relevance they deserve in our educational system. [[Applauds]] For this Government there is no expenditure on education, there is investment in education; investing in education is investing in citizenship, in free-thinking citizens; investing in teacher training and in educational innovation is investing in citizenship. A motivated teacher in public education is the best guarantee that talent can be detected and acted before it is too late. Let us ask ourselves, in short, a question about an experience that I am sure we have shared with all those who are here: How many people have their lives changed having met with a teacher who knew how to motivate them when it was easier to surrender? For that is the key, ladies and gentlemen, that is the virtue of our education professionals, and this Government will be at your disposal and at your side. They lead the field work and, once again, the Government aspires to accompany its work and to be up to it. This executive intends to recover a path that should never have been reversed, which is to recover the levels of investment that allow us to compete with the countries of our environment, the European environment, from a sincere faith in the capacity of public education to re-run the social lift that is now broken. The policy of scholarships that we aspire to articulate is born of that principle, ladies and gentlemen, that of not allowing the surname, the postal code, to mark what a child can achieve in life. This is why it is essential to increase the amount of scholarships for students with lower income levels. [[Applauds]] In order to achieve most of these objectives, this Government wants to promote an open dialogue with the rest of the parliamentary groups and also with the educational community; we will do so. The ultimate objective is to reach agreement on an education agreement to stabilize the system in terms of regulation, budget and curriculum. In this work, the guidance of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, will be to take as a reference the United Nations objectives for 2030 and the European objectives of education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recovered the Ministry of Culture; that never again disappear, govern who rules, because we are talking about the soul of the country. [[Applauds]] Spain can boast before the world of a huge flow of power in this field, which feeds on our history of art, the spirit of free creators and our languages, which project the image of what we are, and I have said it well, our languages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u10	The promotion of all the languages and cultures of Spain deserves the maximum protection of the State, and the commitment of this Government is to recognize and disseminate all the co-official languages, as the Cervantes Institute will do when it opens its new stage, which will be in very short time. The diversity of our culture as a country is part of the best of what we are, culture is not only the essence of the country - as I said before - it is also a powerful economic resource; more than half a million people work in this sector and more than 100,000 companies have their main focus in the cultural sphere. Therefore, we are going to rescue the foreign cultural action plan abandoned to its fate since 2011, we are going to improve the financing and regulation of Spanish cinema, we are going to create a working group to advance in a new law of patronage that reaches all artistic manifestations in our country; it is also the intention of the government to promote the status of the artist, which has already been approved in the Committee of Culture of this Congress, to protect the creators. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a strong will to work on a new sport law with a strong role for women and also for inclusive sport. Spain owes much in its external projection to sport and also to the values it brings in all stages of human formation. We demand the holding of international events linked to sport, for example, the Mediterranean Olympic Games have recently been held in Tarragona and in this area as well and with the view put at the Tokyo Olympic Games - in two years - a public-private funding plan is already being worked out with a scholarship system that guarantees the athletes the support necessary for that appointment. [[applause]] As I announced at the beginning of my speech, the third pillar of the agenda for change is to regenerate our democracy and strengthen our territorial cohesion, today damaged by the crisis in Catalonia. There is no better thermometer to measure the health of a democracy than the strength of its institutions. On many occasions we get very confused when we talk about democratic regeneration thinking that a law, a simple law, can regenerate an entire institution. I believe that, of course, the laws guarantee and regenerate these institutions and democratic life in our country, but also that democratic regeneration, ladies and gentlemen, is achieved thanks to the people who lead these institutions and who within their spheres allow the transformation, modernization and adaptation to the new times of these institutions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the case with Spanish radio and television. The management of the outgoing president is the living proof of interventionism and manipulation with which the former Government understood the public body as a propaganda mechanism. [[Applauds]] I think it is important that this reflection that I want to share with all of you. However, the information manipulation that we have suffered over the past few years and which is obvious... do not laugh because even the European Parliament is precisely investigating the information manipulation of Spanish Radio and Television. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] However, information manipulation is serious, and it is even more serious that there are councillors who have not been renewed for years on behalf of political parties that no longer exist in the Spanish political system, and the power vacuum that led us to the blockade of two parliamentary groups to the renewal at the end of the council's term of office a few weeks ago is serious, ladies and gentlemen, what the Government is most concerned about is the present and future viability of Spanish Radio and Television. The viability as a public service, the financial and labour sustainability of an institution employing 6400 workers, their families, and to which the State allocates nearly EUR 1 billion per year. Allow me to reflect on the following, ladies and gentlemen. Streaming, platforms like Netflix or HBO are changing audiovisual culture in the world, also in our country, and this has a direct, transcendental impact on all mainstream televisions and if they want to survive this change of audiovisual culture model they will have to face it. This is the real challenge that we are not talking about in the public debate, but which seems to me to be the fundamental, the nuclear, the transcendental. Spanish Radio and Television during these seven years is doing nothing. They have been doing nothing for years, the only thing is the political and business blockade of the public body. [[Applauds]] Let us look back, ladies and gentlemen, because in a month like this one year ago the Socialist Parliamentary Group approved, with the support of the majority of the House, a bill to modify the method of electing members of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television. In the interest of that consensus, we managed to incorporate the idea of the public competition; we also managed to incorporate an additional provision that said that if that public competition was not achieved by 31 December 2017, the members of the board of directors would be appointed by the previous mechanism. A year later, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has been done at all. Two parliamentary groups block renewal. Moreover, they agree on a representation they do not have in this House. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Government was urgently obliged to adopt a real decree. That is the reflection I want to make on you. The Government is not going to look elsewhere, it is not going to hide behind the argument of a public contest that uses two parliamentary groups to block and sustain a status quo that neither represents the plurality of this House nor faces the transcendental challenges that ensure that this important public service is sustained. [[Applauds]] Yesterday the renewal of the council did not go ahead, and I truly regret it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u12	I would like to thank the parliamentary groups that supported the Royal Decree of the Government of Spain. We are, ladies and gentlemen, those who want to change things, those who want to regenerate the democratic life of this country, and there are those who want to keep things from the past. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the House to support the last step envisaged in the royal decree to get out of the blockade and facilitate a transition until the process of electing new advisers is completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree has forced those who never believed in the public contest to speed up the times after a year of goings and comings; ultimately, of parliamentary ruinism. Do not doubt that, if this decree comes forward, the contest will meet its deadlines, even speed up; otherwise, what will do is languish by those who only understand Spanish Radio and Television as a spokesperson for their party interests. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the ways to strengthen a democracy is by sharing power. That is decentralization, deconcentration: sharing power. That is how this Government understands a highly decentralized system like ours, which defines our country constitutionally and politically. For a decentralized political system to work, cooperation mechanisms must be operational. Failure to engage in dialogue leads to institutional atrophy, conflict and ensimism. Avoiding such inertia is one of the main objectives of this Government, fundamentally, through three principles. The first is to restore dialogue and stable and systematic cooperation among the Autonomous Communities. In this connection, I would like to mention at this point the thrust of the Canary Islands agenda, which has important milestones ahead of it and in which relevant measures are being developed, such as the 75% bonus for the transport of residents, adopted at the Council of Ministers on 13 July; a decision which also benefits the residents of Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla. [[Applauds]] The second is to carry out a rigorous and comprehensive analysis of its own legislation in order to avoid competitive conflicts, to promote instruments for guaranteeing self-government and to improve institutional coordination. This latter forecast is equally timely and valid for the local level. Local self-government must be promoted, misguided after years of unjust interventionism; unjust because there is no Administration, ladies and gentlemen, that has made more effort in containing the public deficit than local corporations, as you know. Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue is not about giving in, dialogue is about doing politics. Only from dialogue, by highlighting politics, will we be able to deal with institutional crises that are in everyone's mind and that demand a political response where confrontation has been the norm in recent years. To restore the serious institutional crisis in Catalonia is the priority objective of this Government. In this endeavour, we consider it essential to make progress in ensuring the effective implementation of the statutory and constitutional framework in Catalonia. There are political alternatives worth exploring where the confrontation has ended by dividing an extraordinarily plural society such as the Catalan one. This Government is ready to open a frank and direct dialogue. It is not the merit of this Government, ladies and gentlemen, that we can have a dialogue without hindrance, it is the merit of our Constitution, which protects our rights and our freedoms. I am aware that restoring institutional normality will not be the goal, it will be the exit of a political solution for Catalonia, a goal we will reach after having made a background race; let's face it, it will not be an easy or quick solution, it will be a background race where there will be high and low, where there will be difficult situations and less complicated situations. A career that, like any background career, ladies and gentlemen, will require determination, temperance, a sense of state and generosity on the part of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, politicians, leaders, we must not think about what we can lose personally but imagine what the citizens we represent can gain. That is why I am asking you in relation to Catalonia not to address this issue on the basis of what we are willing to give up but on the basis of what we are willing to agree on. [[Applauds]] We are clear, we want to agree on unity and coexistence and on that path we will be able to find each other again. I believe that the first step taken, the activation of bilateral commissions - which did not meet, ladies and gentlemen, since 2011 - will be fundamental to building confidence and loyalty that are broken today. Without dialogue there is only a blockade and with dialogue there will be solutions. This is the spirit with which I have also met with the Lehendakari Urkullu, whom I thank for his commitment and his institutional loyalty; we are going to promote a bilateral dialogue agenda for the benefit of Basque society and we are in fact already working on this with the Basque Government. In this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, I will see this afternoon the President of the Xunta de Galicia, Mr Núñez Feijóo; and until the last day of July the President of the Board of Andalusia, Susana Díaz; the President of the Principality of Asturias, Javier Fernández, and the President of Cantabria, Miguel Ángel Revilla. My commitment, the Government's commitment, is to meet with each and every autonomous president before the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is one of the areas where progress in democratic regeneration and institutional strengthening is most urgently needed. A justice that must be swift, independent and transparent in order to be at the service of the entire society, but especially of the victims. In this modernizing purpose I would like to express our willingness to make progress in providing the technical and human resources that are desirable, but also - and this is very important - with the necessary dialogue between the Government and the associations of judges and prosecutors, lawyers from the Administration of Justice and officials. The judicial independence and autonomy of the prosecutor's office must be ensured by ensuring appointments based on objective criteria of equality, merit and capacity, not only because it is a requirement of any mature democracy, which is so, in which the principle of separation of powers, such as ours, prevails, but in order to overcome a stage of loss of confidence in society in institutions linked to justice. In this regard, I would like to announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's intention to promote the reform of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which establishes a particularly harmful maximum period of investigation in the handling of complex corruption-related cases. The need for agile justice can never serve as an excuse for precipitating certain causes, let alone as an excuse for impunity. The adoption of the reform of the regulation of free legal aid or the impetus of mediation are also based on this same philosophy, that of strengthening justice and restoring the confidence of citizens in a nuclear public service of our rule of law. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen the institutions and the regulatory changes that make this society more viable, we also need a gender perspective that has been absent for a long time. We are going to promote that view, ladies and gentlemen, and we will do so from the specialized training of professionals in these fields, incorporating that vision into any action of the Administration of Justice. Let me be clear, ladies, if you say it's not a no and if you don't say yes, it's a no. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a feminist government and is not afraid or complex to display that label. On 8 March, society launched a message that all institutions had and have a duty to listen to, something changed that day and the whole world witnessed it. For the first time in a long time the attention of the international media was in our country and for something that we feel proud of, which was the fight for equality, the fight against the wage gap and the fight for equal work; the way in which we read legal norms that seem to contradict the spirit of our time, education in values in the educational field, early awareness of violence against women as an expression of something particularly infamous, such as domination and discrimination. No one owns anyone and no one is less than anyone. This society has to look in the mirror of decency when still today, ladies and gentlemen, a woman has to pretend to speak on the phone when she walks home alone on a street in any city in our country. Fear is the foreground of domination and there is simply no right for them to feel fear in Spain in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a fundamental and very valuable tool in this area, such as the Pact to Combat Gender Violence, and I firmly believe that we can all promote the culture of agreement even further in this area until we eradicate violence that leaves in our country as many orphans as possible, to encircle those who encircle. Spain must have herd-free streets. Much of what we are making in this case has to do with what can be done from the safety point of view. Ensuring the safety of women who are victims of gender-based violence must be and is a priority objective of this Government, as is progressing in the specialized training of personnel of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which is key in the fight against this scourge. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of these bodies represent a high percentage of the total number of officials of the General Administration of the State. Initiatives in the field of social protection, such as the cross-cutting improvement of working conditions, equal pay and the impetus for conciliation measures, are essential for this Government. In the face of new forms of crime, the impetus for international cooperation in the fight against terrorism or specific money-laundering organizations will be an essential task on the part of our Government, as will be the fight against corruption, an issue in which Spain has, unfortunately, taken too many to the eyes of the whole world, an expression of a disease that corrodes the foundations of democracy and destroys the faith and trust of citizens in their institutions. Therefore, progress in the early detection of these plots is much more than law enforcement, it is also promoting transparency, it is defending our regime of freedoms and it is working for democratic regeneration. This Government is committed to exemplaryness at its highest level and will spare no effort in the fight against the scourge that has done much damage to the image of Spain and also to the public arks. Ladies and gentlemen, someone said that when a people renounces freedom for the sake of security they end up losing both: security and freedom. This is a very timely statement when it comes to talking about the Law gag. We offer consensus and will to agree on a reform that weakened our institutions, undermined the quality of our democracy and attacked freedoms. Political dialogue within this House to strike a balance between two equally valuable values for this government. As far as defence policy is concerned, I would like to refer to five priority areas for action. The first has to do with strengthening our own defence capabilities; the second, strengthening Spain's position in the international security system; the third, the determined momentum for the defence Europe; the fourth, contributing to the fight against international terrorism; and the fifth, enhancing so-called defence diplomacy. Yesterday we had the opportunity for the Council of Ministers to participate in the meeting of the National Security Council with its majesty the king, something that had not happened since 2015, a key body in the detection of new threats and in the search for tools to combat them; threats such as cybersecurity and those of a hybrid nature that constitute sources of risk for all democracies, also our own. Spain today is a reliable partner in the world in defence matters. We participate in fifteen international missions, in which more than 2,400 men and women of the Armed Forces carry out their work with professionalism, dedication and dedication, and I would like to make explicit reference to this in this intervention. Defence policy is a State policy for this Government. That is what I understood in the opposition, and that is what I want to say from the Government. The mandate, therefore, is very clear: the search for consensus. Spain will maintain its international commitments and will honour its vocation for stability and global peace by promoting a culture of national security. We have important challenges ahead in facilitating labour integration, for example in the civil sphere - you are no stranger to this because you have also met with these groups - of those on the long-term commitment troop and navy scale who, when they reach the age of forty-five, have to leave the Armed Forces and therefore face serious difficulties in being able to continue working. In the same area, responding once again to the cross-cutting equality policy that this Government exhibits, we intend to strengthen all measures that promote effective equality between men and women, especially with regard to the Constitution. And finally, to promote measures that give effect to the guarantee of equal treatment within the Armed Forces of persons belonging to the LGTBI collective, a collective that, together with many others, expects from this House a great consensus to bring forward an important law for this Government and for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, such as the law against discrimination and hate crimes, which is in the process of parliamentary processing. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth and final pillar of the agenda for change we are proposing is the definition and participation of Spain in European construction and the role we have to play in the world. Consensus and vocation of State policy are indispensable conditions for the defence of Spain's interests abroad and for the projection of the image of our country, called to have, in our opinion, a much more active and important presence in multilateral forums. Spain can and must play an active role in the international organizations to which it belongs and will do so by giving priority to humanitarian affairs, the 2030 Agenda, the Gender Agenda, the fight against terrorism and preventive diplomacy. We are a country committed to the promotion and protection of human rights, an advanced democracy that wants to continue to bet on multilateralism and the defence of the process of European integration, which is now being called into question within and outside our continent. In this area, I would like to refer again to three principles that will be present in our external action: responsibility, solidarity and empathy. We have, ladies and gentlemen, enormous challenges ahead on this issue. Firstly, to close the negotiation of the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, clearing up uncertainties and guaranteeing the defence of Spain's interests, also with regard to Gibraltar. Secondly, to defend Spain's interests in the negotiation of the financial perspective 2021-2027 and to make progress in the construction of economic and monetary union. Thirdly, working with European and southern partners on the migration challenge, which, as I have already said, must have a European dimension and scope in approach and solution. Fourthly, strengthening and recovering development cooperation policy as a defining element of Spain's foreign policy. In this regard, I would like to make a special mention of Spain's desire at the last European Council that the priority in the process of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union, for this government, should be to defend the rights of our citizens in the United Kingdom. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special mention of the need to encourage the amendment of the legislation in order to put an end to the so-called request for a vote and to do so before the electoral processes of May next year take place. I would also like to stress the importance that the new Government is going to give to Ibero-America. Thus, at the next Ibero-American Summit, to be held in Guatemala in November, together with the rest of the countries, we will continue to build this community that we form, sharing objectives and values, in particular the exchange of our civil societies in all its fields. Finally, I would like to convey to you the firm commitment of the Government to lead in multilateral forums and global joint proposals to challenges crucial to the future of our planet, starting with the general debate of the 73rd United Nations General Assembly, in which I will actively participate. I will also attend the thirteenth summit of the G-20 in Buenos Aires with the same spirit. In the area of peace and security, I will participate, as we have done before, in all the debates being held in NATO to ensure that war, instability and human rights violations recede into the world. I would like to make special mention here, ladies and gentlemen, of the 2030 Agenda, an agenda for sustainable development, for which I have appointed a Commissioner depending directly on the Presidency of the Government, which will occupy an important part of the action of this Government and also of the Presidency. This agenda, which will guide the work of the United Nations in the coming years, puts the citizen at the centre of its action, with an approach to rights and freedoms, their universal and indivisible nature, with three interrelated facets fundamental to this Government: economic, social and environmental. It is and will be a great opportunity to reverse the direction of the planet in the right direction for its sustainability. I do not want to finish the chapter on foreign policy without mentioning our firm intention to continue to maintain bilateral contacts with all the countries of the international community, especially with our friends in Latin America and Africa, regions with which, driven by our history and geography, we have created indissoluble links. Morocco, a neighbouring country and a friend, will take a prominent place in these bilateral contacts. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout my speech there is a constant that I want to recover right now. The new government wants to accompany society, wants to stand by it, making possible an agenda of change based on four pillars, that of economic growth and job creation, that of equality and social cohesion, that of regeneration and territorial cohesion and that of returning to the heart of Europe. We have not come to govern the Spaniards, we have come to govern with the Spaniards, hence my commitment to govern with Parliament and not against Parliament, which has been the usual tonic for the past seven years. I am aware of the hopes that this Government has raised in much of society and of the need to live up to the expectations raised. We live, ladies and gentlemen, times of change in many areas - in the economic sphere, in the field of work, in the field of technological innovation - and in change there are always opportunities, but there are also threats to the most exposed and vulnerable in society. They are those who live with the uncertainty of a time when precariousness floods everything; precarious jobs, precarious wages, precarious lives. This Government calls on all sectors, all political forces and all administrations to ensure that fear of the future does not further weaken our social cohesion; it will do so knowing that it does not have all the answers, but that it has clear questions that our society is asking itself at this crucial moment in defining what our country will be like tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I began my speech by recalling what happened in this Chamber four decades ago. I told you about the 258 members of this House who voted yes to the Spanish Constitution, who opened a time that changed history for the good of our country. Of those who were part of this House at the time, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-one were women, and only one of them was able to participate in the Constitutional Commission. Today there are 146 out of 350 women in this House, so there is a lot of territory to gain in favour of gender equality. At the door of a new decade, Spain has already changed, and the change is written by the daughters, grandchildren and grandchildren of those who starred in the first great change of our country, the transition from dictatorship to democracy. This year we celebrate the 40th anniversary of our Constitution and the most important thing is to re-understand, as the previous generations understood, the need that politics cannot go behind society. The time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to put back the clock of politics at the time of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u13	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, more than a month ago my parliamentary group called for your urgent appearance, Mr Sánchez, so that you could explain both your government programme - not having done so in this House during the debate on the motion of censure - and the pacts reached with the populists, the independenceists, the ETA heirs, to whom you asked for the vote, and Mr Urkullu, of the PNV, who have taken you to the Presidency of the Government through the back door. Mr Sánchez has obtained the Presidency of the Government through a motion of censure supported by a fallacy, in the manipulation of a judicial sentence that was the alibi for bringing together an unprecedented majority, united only by the political objective of expelling the People's Party of the Government, which had won the elections in June 2016 for the second time in a row, obtaining 137 seats, 52 more than you got, Mr Sánchez. Therefore, you come here today with supports that will stigmatize you all the time in which you intend to screw that chair. Mr Sánchez, you are the first president in forty years of democracy who, defeated twice in the polls, fled this House, from which he is not even a Member today. How are you going to tell us here today that you are going to make Parliament the centre of Spanish politics, when neither you nor any of your ministers usually sit here with us? [[Applauds]] Your motion of censure was a political fraud motivated by your excessive personal ambition to get to La Moncloa at the expense of whatever it was, and the fact that you came here today, forty-five days after the motion of censure, to present a government program, is a good proof of the destructive nature of that motion. A speech, by the way, rancio, emptiness, full of common places that are only positive is to try to take ownership of the issues and measures adopted by the People's Party Government. You have come today to over act, but you have told us today about Spain not that you inherited, but about Spain that you left behind, that of 2011, ruined Spain, Spain of inequalities, Spain of cuts, because it was you who starred in the biggest cuts in Spain, even freezing the pensions of the elderly. [[Applauds]] But, being this very serious, Mr Sánchez, the worst thing is that you have hidden the price you have committed to those who gave you your trust and the mortgages you have arranged for all Spaniards so as to arrive and stay in La Moncloa. Do you want to tell me how you intend to carry out those reforms that you have announced with only 85 seats, in how long you will do so and on what basis? Based on decrees like the one on TV? Its ministers have announced during these days measures that have lasted half an hour: from the labor reform, through the lists of defrauders - those that boasted so much that it was going to publish and that it is no longer going to publish - to the measures on the diesel and others that the Minister of Health has announced and of which he has forgotten today. You have a problem, and it is that you have not presented a government programme with a parliamentary majority. You have only negotiated a subsistence system that will force you to make concessions on a continuous and permanent basis to your occasional partners, those old communists who transformed into Bolivarian populists question not only the Constitution, but even our democratic transition, of which now, as you have recalled, are fulfilled forty years... - I already know that it makes you grace this and many other things more,... [[rumors]] [[rumors]] [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u16	... but for laughs those of some, like yesterday - by the way, the brightest years of our history in terms of prosperity, democracy and freedom. The independence forces - who have come to support a coup against the unity of Spain, our Constitution and the Crown -, the former friends of the ETA terrorists - to whom you also did not deny your support - and Mr Urkullu, of the PNV - votes for prisoners - all these partners are essential, all at the same time, and you have an obligation to satisfy them permanently, because if not your Government will be continually defeated in this House. And go if he's doing it! Allow me briefly to refer to some of the facts that demonstrate the political price that we are already paying all Spaniards for having you as President of the Government without the legitimacy of the ballot box. Mr Sánchez, you are fulfilling the demands of those who want to break Spain, of which you have spoken very little today: you have lifted the financial control of the Generalitat de Catalunya and allowed the famous Diplocat and the increase in the budget of TV3 to promote Hispanicophobia; you have renounced to reach a pact on the model of autonomous financing for all the autonomous communities with the aim of having free hands to launch bilateral negotiations with the Generalitat de Catalunya on the side of the rest of Spain; you have announced that you want to recover articles from the Statute of Catalonia that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional and withdraw the resources of unconstitutionality that the previous government of Mr Rajoy presented and even come to question the Constitution itself not only for the linguistic extravaganzas of Mrs Calvo, but also to make tribulations about what is Spain as a nation. Mr Sánchez, Spain is not a nation of nations; that is a political, legal and constitutional aberration. [[Applauds]] You have met with Mr Torra, whom you referred to as the supremacist xenophobic and of being the Spanish Le Pen, with smiles and pats to offer him a free dialogue and give him freedom to talk about the referendum of self-determination, something that Mr Torra hastened to clarify that he had occupied 90% of his time. What a missed occasion, Mr Sánchez, to point out to you that there are no political prisoners in Spain, no repression or exile, and to make it clear to you that there is neither immunity nor impunity nor pardons as regards law enforcement. What a missed opportunity to defend the head of state from the aggressions that we have seen against the Crown all this time. In this respect, you show a little more courage and dignity, Mr Sánchez. He has transferred to Catalonia the imprisoned coupsmen who shamed all the Spaniards after the threats of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and the PDeCAT not to vote for the decree of the TV. This past week a German regional court has questioned the Supreme Court about the legal nature of the Euroorder itself. If the principle of mutual trust between the Member States of the European Union is violated, the basis of the Schengen area is being violated, Mr Sánchez. That is why you cannot endorse this or look elsewhere, because defending the Spanish Supreme Court is defending Spain and the Spanish, Mr Sánchez. Mr Sánchez, I ask you again today: Are you with Spain or those who want to break it? [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, your weakness is so obvious that not only do Catalan independenceists have to pay a price, but also Bildu, the old friends of the ETA terrorists, and Mr Urkullu, of the PNV. You have used prison policy as a currency of change, you have already announced it to us; in this case, in a cruel and humiliating way to the victims of terrorism and the history of our democracy. It is conducting a three-phase process: regrouping in Basque prisons, transferring prison competition to the Basque Government and a subsequent completion of all the grade benefits to put them on the street soon. Mr Sánchez, my parliamentary group is asking you to stop all this so that no one has to freeze the blood of the victims again, as the mother of Pagazaurtundúa said in her day. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, can you tell me why the ages must have more privileges than the more than 15,000 Spanish prisoners serving sentences away from their homes? Do you want to make this clear to me? It is true that ETA has dissolved, but many of its crimes remain unclarified. My group demands that terrorists ask for forgiveness, repair the damage caused and cooperate with justice. We will always look after the victims of terrorism, their memory, their dignity and their justice. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs has already announced that she is going to fail to meet the deficit path agreed by Spain in Brussels, which is going to increase the deficit by 5 billion more. The Minister of Finance intends to raise taxes more than €65 billion. Socialists go back to what they always do, what they do best, spend other people's money. More than the money of others, you end up spending the money of others, of the children of others and of the grandchildren of others, until you end up ruining the country. [[Applauds]] They go back to the policies of spending and waste, something that did so much damage to our economy, Mr Sánchez. Three and a half million Spaniards ended up paying precisely those socialist policies in the past, and I hope that you will not repeat the same thing again, that you will learn something from the past. Already began the first day with the creation of four new ministries and has continued with all kinds of public spending growth announcements. You have already appointed more ministers and senior officials than Members have sitting on those seats. [[Applauds]] And let me tell you that when you talk about it being others who are going to pay taxes, big corporations, all these things that you make up, banks and so on, do you know who finally pays the party? The usual, the Spanish workers, the Spanish pensioners, all those are going to pay the increases in those taxes that will then be passed on to the services paid by all the Spanish. By raising taxes, we know, he even wants to get his hands on the barter's tips. You're insatiable! But do you know what the problem is? [[Applauds]] The problem you have is that this month already the CPI has been shot at 2.3% and already there are many workers who are beginning to lose purchasing power by their policies and advertisements. Mr Sánchez, I have already warned you, you have begun as a Zapatero, and I hope for the good of Spain that it will not end as it ended, although for that it is necessary that you end soon. The Spaniards have not forgotten about the bankrupt country that you left us in 2011. They left a ruined country, with three and a half million people unemployed. You spoke of energy, but you also left us a small gift in energy: EUR 28 billion of deficit in the energy system. I hope you guys don't get back on your feet. We have reduced the deficit by more than 70 billion a year, reduced taxes, improved pensions and social services, guaranteed investment and legal security, and families today have more opportunities and well-being than they had when you left the government. That was thanks to the reforms made by the previous Government and the efforts of millions of Spaniards. The 2018 General Budgets are those of consolidation and those of an agreement that we made here most of the groups and that you voted against. These are the budgets that you have joyfully announced to us today that you are going to parasiticize, because, Mr Guirao, the VAT on cinema drops thanks to the budget agreed by President Rajoy, not thanks to you or Mr Sánchez. Mrs Valerio, pensions are going to rise, and especially the lowest, thanks to the agreement of this parliamentary group with the rest of the political formations, among which you were not. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, the salaries of the Civil Guard and the National Police will be matched not by you, but by the 2018 budgets. [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos and Mr Sánchez, travel to the people living outside the peninsula will be reduced, not because of you, whom you voted against, but because of the general budgets of the State approved by the previous government. [[Applauds]] And Mr Ábalos, as far as railway investments are concerned, I demand that you immediately launch the entire Mediterranean corridor and stop paralysing the AVE between Murcia and Almería. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Montero, family income is going to benefit - there is Mrs. Montero -... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u17	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u18	They will benefit precisely from the tax reduction. They will improve the incomes of self-employed people, of workers and especially of people with more modest incomes. And Mrs Batet, they are going to raise the salaries of officials thanks to the previous government, as well as thanks to the negotiations of the previous government with the social partners there is an income pact to raise the salaries of all workers. Your Honor, where we had stopped we have left jobs, where there was ruin we have left well-being, where the law was mocked the order has been restored, and so we will continue to give the battle, now from the opposition, but do not doubt that it will soon be again from the government. Mr Sánchez, in order to carry out what is proposed with the lowest possible electoral cost you need to set up the most complete machinery of occupation of the institutions at the service of propaganda. We've checked it out these days. First, the unconstitutional and unprecedented assault on Radiotelevision Española, with the collaboration of its partners on occasion, to try to make television of all Spaniards a kind of teleturkey with which to hide their mistakes, to cover up the corruption that in the last few days again hit his party and pay every day the price due to its partners. You, by your decree, have brought this Parliament before us, forcing us to hold eight plenary sessions, which yesterday, in addition, resulted in a ridiculous sound. That is why I ask you to withdraw the decree and, please, do not accuse either Citizens or the People's Party of blocking the renewal of Spanish Radio Television, because if that renewal has not been made - and you know it well and you know who is next to you, Mrs Robles - it was because you refused to renew that board of directors. You know, Mr. Sanchez, you know, don't lie anymore, please. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, you know that with your poor representation, it's going to be very difficult for you to rule. Therefore, his goal will be to impose his ideology and seek confrontation to distract the Spaniards. For the time being, it has announced measures that will destroy the educational pact, it has already attacked concerted education, it has devalued religion to impose its political ideal and it seeks to go against the freedom of parents to choose the education they want. That is why, to all of them and to those who are also suffering from indoctrination in schools in Catalonia, I want to tell you that the People's Party is not going to leave you alone. Mr Sánchez, my parliamentary group calls on you not to recover the revanchista Spain that we managed to leave behind in the spirit of the Spanish transition. We demand that you do not use the past to break the present and the future that we build among all and work for the real concerns of the Spaniards, which are unemployment, regeneration, the credibility of politics and the economy, as the CIS says. Leave the story to historians and worry about learning it and knowing it so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Mr Sánchez, you have arrived at the European Council without any credibility whatsoever. He has decided with his party and through a motion of censure to place Spain in a complex situation. You started in the European Union by breaking the pact between socialists and people to renew those institutions and the people there remember very well what their position was. That's why he's been treated with some contempt. He has used in these days the management of a dramatic matter, like that of the Aquarius, only to take pictures and to make a humanitarian gesture that obviates the work that the NGOs have been doing on the Andalusian coast, but that has served to tell them...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u19	Mr. Hernando, you've spent a lot of time. It's got to be over.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u20	Ma'am, it's been a while too, Mr. Sanchez, but I'll try to finish. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u21	Mr. Hernando, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u22	I'll keep the order, Madam President. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u23	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u24	I'm done, I'm done, Madam President. Your Honor, you live in a process of worship of your personality. [[Rumors]] I am not going to talk much about the European Council because since you have done nothing at the European Council, I am not going to talk, I just want to remind you that what you have done with your immigration gesture policies is to point out our country as a fundamental route for those who trade with people and who use their misfortune and poverty to try to get a business. That's what you've done; you should be traveling to Morocco soon to thank our southern partners for the work they do for our safety and to fight those mafias. You, as I told you before, live in a process of cult to your personality that is based on poses and photographs. We already know your dog, your helicopter, your plane, your sunglasses, your sports models, your hands... [[Rumors]] But the Spaniards do not deserve that you have decided to turn Spain into a hostage of a government in the shadow of populists, independenceists and ETA heirs who dictate the steps you must follow. That's going to be a government that doesn't deserve Spain. That is why you are not the president of the government that the Spaniards deserve, because twice you were rejected by them and you do not have their confidence. I'm done. A president who, in order to pay his political favors and his personal ambition to reach La Moncloa, questions the constitutional pact of 1978, neither Spain nor the Spanish deserve it. A president who, in order to reward those who want to break Spain, endangers the integrity of the country and the equality of all Spaniards and our prestige in Europe, does not deserve Spain or the Spaniards. [[rumors]] [[Protests]] A president who uses the public services of the state to make propaganda and to put them at his personal service... [[Strong protests.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u25	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u26	...doesn't deserve Spain and the Spanish. I see here freedom of expression, how some defend it. [[Strong protests.- Rumors.-Applause.]] A president who uses prison policy as a currency of exchange at the expense of the dignity of the victims of terrorism, neither Spain nor the Spanish deserve it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u27	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u28	A president who returns to public spending policies and tax increases, neither Spain nor the Spanish deserve it. [[Strong protests.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u29	Sir... Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards must have one thing very clear: where you are not going to defend the unity of Spain and the Constitution, there will be the PP. Where you're not going to defend the unity of all...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u31	Mr. Hernando, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u32	...there will be the PP. [[Protests and rumors]] Where you are not going to preserve the dignity of the victims of terrorism, there will be the PP. Where they are going to put the general well-being of the Spaniards at risk, there will be the PP, ensuring their rights... [[Strong protests.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u33	Your time is up, Mr. Hernando. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile continues his speech with the microphone closed]] Mr. Hernando, you've run out of time. Mr. Hernando, you have to finish. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand.-Rumores]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent and take your seats, or else leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. If you are going to speak first of all about democratic memory, Mr Sánchez, I believe that what was important first was to recognize those thousands of citizens of our country who were the ones who brought democracy to our country and who were left behind for the rights and freedoms that we have today. I also believe that it was up to them to pay attention and that justice should be done once and for all, that Francoist crimes should be judged, that all those Francoists should be judged because not one has yet been judged in our country, that all those who committed crimes against humanity, that Billy el Niño's medals should be withdrawn and that Argentina's justice should be given to Martín Villa, who is now the time and that is what must be done in democratic memory in our country. [[Applauds]] I was going to thank you, Mr Sánchez, for coming to this House to talk about the European Council, but the truth is that you have not spoken much about the European Council, it is good that the democratic control mechanisms that Mr Rajoy has squandered are restored. We do care about Europe, and I think one of the reasons why you did not talk about the European Council, despite the somewhat triumphalist statements with which you left there at five o'clock in the morning, is because those conclusions - and you know it well - show that the European project on social justice and human rights has entered an unprecedented organic crisis. This Council should have focused - you know - on a reform of the European asylum system in order to make it more effective and respectful of human rights, and yet we return home with an agreement calling for more CIEs in transit countries such as Libya, as requested by the Visegrad bloc, led by Hungary, and more CIEs in Europe, as you, Mr Macron and Mrs Merkel, wanted. But no matter what their names are and where they are, the CIEs, Mr Sánchez, are CIEs and all we have to do with them is close them. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Not a word in those conclusions about articulating legal and safe ways for people to migrate safely, because that would be the only mechanism that would really allow us to end the deaths in the Mediterranean and the mafias. I believe that the fundamental question to be asked about the European Council is whether Spain has played a key role in it, whether we have played a decisive role in turning the agenda towards social justice. And I clearly have to tell you, Mr Sánchez, that no, in this Council we have talked about what the extreme right wants to talk about, about immigration, and the problem of Europe is not immigration, the problem of Europe is austerity policies that have left thousands of penultimate people who may end up thinking that the problem is their Senegalese neighbour and not those who charge millions for closing arms sales contracts to Saudi Arabia; or their problem is those who have accounts in Switzerland and actually call themselves patriots but they are not. [[applause]] In this context, Spain has a responsibility, we have a responsibility that we have to assume together and which is enormous, we have a responsibility to promote an alternative and to demonstrate that another Europe is possible, and that is to lead if or if a democratic people from the Mediterranean has two fundamental objectives: firstly, to end social and economic inequalities and, secondly, a deep democratization of the European institutions, which it lacks. That is why, President, your Government and you, when you go to the European Council or are going to negotiate with the Commission, the spending ceiling must go to Europe to negotiate, you cannot go to Europe to settle, you have an obligation to go to Brussels to negotiate because you do not negotiate for yourselves, you are negotiating for the Spanish and the Spanish, and it is not up to Brussels to smile at Mrs Merkel, it is up to go to negotiate forcefully. The deficit target that you have agreed with Brussels hardly gives us a budgetary air, and it is becoming increasingly clear that our country does not need a ceiling on expenditure, it needs an income floor from which to take off. The last time you ruled, Mr Sánchez, you took a wrong path, a path that folded us into the troika and ended up making you reform Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution at the hands of the People's Party, so I ask you to recognize today and here, as Mr Zapatero has already acknowledged, that this path is a mistake. I say this to you, Mr Sánchez, because many of the statements you and your Government have made in recent weeks have us deeply concerned; we are very concerned about your statements about labour reform, about retirement age, about the concerted school or about the concession that you are going to make to Mr Trump to increase military spending as he has imposed on us. We are very concerned that you have said that you do not intend to publish the list of defrauders of Mr Montoro's unconstitutional tax amnesty, even though we have known that the emeritus king himself, Juan Carlos I, could be among those defrauders. [[Applauds]] We are concerned that there are more than ten videos circulating on the Internet in which you personally undertake to publish the list of defrauders when you arrive at the Government, and we will not consent to you missing your word, we will not consent you to miss your word because citizenship in our country has the right to know whether or not the emeritus king is a defrauder, has the right to know and can be done, and my parliamentary group will demonstrate this by presenting initiatives that demonstrate that you can publish that list of tax defrauders. [[applause]] Be brave because we need a president and a courageous government; we have ahead of us the most important step of the legislature, the budgets of 2019, and look, you are lucky, we are reliable partners, we always do what we said we were going to do, we are reliable, Mr Sánchez. But if these budgets take on the challenge of making a radical shift in austerity and poverty policies, and if they are up to Spain's level of change that put you in government, you have no doubt that you will count on our support. However, I warn you that if your goal is to make cosmetic touches to these policies and do not take on the challenge that Spain has ahead, they will not count on it. The 2019 budgets must reflect the mandates of millions of pensioners who have demanded on the streets that pensions must be updated to the CPI, they must collect the mandate of 8 March and of women who demand equal pay and equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity permits, they must be budgets that rescue education and public health and the dependency that the PP has dismantled. This motion of censure, Your Honor - and I finish now - has aroused the hope of many people in our country and this Government must rise to that hope. The parliamentary majorities in order to achieve the changes that our country has ahead, Mr Sánchez, must be built, it is not enough to sit on the blue seat saying that it cannot be. We've been listening for a whole year that you couldn't, that you didn't give the numbers to throw Mr. M out. Rajoy of the Government and in the end it turned out that yes, that it could and that we were right. Now we don't have that much time, so start building the majorities that face our country's emergencies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u35	I give the floor to Mrs Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u36	Thank you. As long as the income of the countries on the north shore of the Mediterranean is fourteen times higher than that of the countries on the south shore, thousands of people will seek a life for the future in Europe and, if we continue to do so, we are in danger of the Mediterranean remaining its great common pit. Unfortunately, in the last Council of Europe this does not seem to have been understood, Europe continues to be encapsulated in its strength by outsourcing its responsibilities, investing its resources in strengthening border control and surveillance systems, forcing migrants and refugees to return to the countries from which they flee and leaving Greece, Italy and Spain to manage this predatory policy because the reform of the Dublin Regulation has been postponed. It is clear that in this context gestures are necessary and mark differences. In fact, any gesture is appreciated and that's why it was important to allow the Aquarius to arrive in Valencia or the Open Arms to arrive in Barcelona, but staying alone in that would be an unforgivable irresponsibility. As we have already told you on other occasions, Mr Sánchez, if it is only a matter of gestures you will not be able to count on us. His Government should therefore diverge from the intention to set up new detention centres in Europe in the image and likeness of the CIEs. And, on the other hand, what do you intend to do now that the Supreme Court has urged your Government to cover the quota of refugees agreed in 2015 and to process the nearly 19,500 asylum applications to which Spain committed itself? Here are the cities shelter, cities without fear that without their own skills or resources have become host cities and mark the way forward. In these cities people live who demand that their Government commit itself to a policy of cooperation, hope and not a policy of fear. On the other hand - and very quickly - it is clear at this stage that if there is something that has caused a shameful image of Spain in the European Union it has been the disastrous management that the PP government has made of the conflict with Catalonia. The previous Government of the Generalitat also made terrible decisions that have failed, we are very critical of it, but without a doubt the main one responsible for the current situation, precisely for having more political maneuvering capacity and having completely abandoned it, has been the Government of the State. Here are the images of the violence that the police carried out on the people on October 1st and that turned the world around or the multiple sentences of European courts revealing the irrationality of pre-trial detention or accusations of rebellion without violence. To channel this situation and start the new stage that began with the motion of censure, we ask you to opt for an agenda of dialogue and distension that must begin with what Mr Torra has already seen as minor issues, but which for us are key issues. For example: that autonomous and also local financing be improved and that municipalities be allowed to manage their resources by prioritizing the common good, that investment in public transport and housing be recovered, that resources be withdrawn to the Constitutional Court that for example today prevent that in Catalonia but also in Andalusia, Navarre, Valencia or Euskadi there are laws that guarantee the right to housing by demanding co-responsibility of the private actors of the real estate market. Such housing policies will also be required of his Government, especially with regard to the limitation of abusive rental prices. Some of these issues have contributed to highlighting the exhaustion of our model of State. We believe that we must bet on a plurinational state, on the understanding of course that the citizens of Catalonia must have a voice and vote in the decisions that determine their political future. Therefore, from the difference in what we assume is his defence of the state of autonomy but by appealing to what we agree on, we ask him to address the management of the territorial conflict by betting on recognizing plurinationality and giving it the relevance it deserves, something that his party was, by the way, defending just a few years ago. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u37	Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you are president as a result of certain contingencies that had an underlying element, and it was the enormous pole of opposition that had been mounted with the policies of the People's Party, policies that - as the spokesman of the People's Group has reminded us with great affection today - cut public services, increased authoritarianism, reflected a reactionary vision of what Spain is that does not correspond to reality, and also because of the enormous corruption that the People's Party had and its tolerance towards it. That is why it is very noteworthy that you have not made any reference to the monarchy scandal, the corruption scandal that is being accused of the monarchy itself. You have said of this scandal that the new evidence is old tapes that don't shake you. I am very surprised that this is being said by the present Government and that it is also being said with the Socialist Party representing it, first of all, because these are the same arguments that the People's Party gave about the role of Barcenas and, secondly, because I believe that when we talk about rethinking our country we talk about rethinking everything, we absolutely rethink everything and we need to talk about a new model of country. And, of course, it is possible that by an infamous anachronism the actions committed by the members of the Spanish monarchy before 2014 have no legal consequences. And before that, what does this House have to say? Should we not worry about the possibility that the monarchy has received gifts from the Moroccan Government? Shouldn't this House be concerned that the monarchy has been involved in international transactions in which commissions could have been carried out? Shouldn't this House be concerned about the fact that the National Police and the National Intelligence Centre knew this information and decided to protect it? Shouldn't this House, ultimately, be concerned that members of the Royal House would have done activities that if we had done them any of us here would be illegal? Should we not worry about this, which affects decency, security, public finances and the image of our country? Shouldn't we be worried about that? So, Mr Sánchez, a committee of inquiry is the right thing to do, and that is why we invite the Socialist Party to join in a process which is already part of many groups as a demand and which is part of rethinking our country: talking about everything, taking the first part of that speech that you made this morning, which seems to me very appropriate. We must take advantage of this new stage that opens - because a very dark stage closes - as a space of light and opportunity to take advantage of and rethink our model. That means talking about everything, that means not shielding from impunity the dark spaces that still remain in our Constitution and that means understanding that what we want is something as simple as the truth so that in Spain, in fact, we are all the same. Mr. Sánchez, join that commission of inquiry. I'm done. Please also note that you have come here with the support of many very different groups, that we are very different from each other but that we do share a form, principles and values of democracy that I believe are part of the Republican tradition. It is a republican alliance that has made you president; do not abandon us, do not abandon this principle that only calls for truth, transparency and rethink everything. Thank you. Health and the Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u39	For the same group, Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u40	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Government, they say that we are the ones who govern in the shadow, but neither in the shadow of Podemos nor of En Marea nor of the Socialist Party; this is no time for partyism. The mandate of pensioners, of women, of precarious young people to what forces us to remain is to put politics, institutions and the State at the service of the people, of the social majority. We are a political space that governs the main cities of the State and that we have made an act of responsibility with two objectives. The first, already achieved, to expel the People's Party from government. The second, whose challenge begins in these weeks, is to legislate and govern to improve people's lives, to bring institutions up to the standards of society. We have already left behind the Government of the People's Party, but now it is time to leave behind its policies; it is time to leave behind the terrible consequences and the infamous legacy of corruption, lack of freedoms and inequality. Since In Marea we are very proud to have contributed to passing this page, but now it is up to us, Mr President, to build a work horizon with rights, decent pensions, quality employment, access to housing and equality. We are also concerned since En Marea - I tell you, Mr President - because there is not a single commitment to Galicia. It is time for territorial dialogue, of course, but Galicia, country and nation, has an unreplaceable urgency. The redistribution that touches between people also touches between the territories. It does not cost the same, anyone understands it, a public service and finance it in the Ancares or in Fisterra than in Madrid, so for En Marea it is urgent an unalterable and just reform of the autonomous financing. And the Galician agenda, Mr President, the Galician agenda that In Marea has been bringing for two years, the Galician agenda that we put on the table and that is not resolved with a meeting with President Feijóo. The Galician agenda, the AP-9, our naval sector, dependence, our productive sectors - dairy and fisheries -, the extension of Ence. It is your responsibility to meet Galicia, Mr President. Let's go with Europe, and I'll finish. We are experiencing a real change of era, a transformation of the world order: the crisis of the European Union, the triumph of Trump and the rise of the most xenophobic right puts us at a crossroads that will not be solved with more technocracy. You have to choose, Mr Sánchez: either to continue the path of subalternity in recent years or to start with others and with others a project for a new Europe. Finally, it is time for transparency and justice. No one can be above the law. His Government could not allow impunity, nor from whom it handled the sewers of the State or from a head of State who had not been voted by the citizenry. Equality before the law and the rule of law. It is not time for old recipes; it is a new time: democracy, plurinational state, welfare and social rights. That's where most of society is and that's where it's going to find us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u42	Thank you, President. After forty-five days of incomparence, we went up to this rostrum to listen to the temporary president, Mr Sánchez. You had been turning your back on the Spaniards for forty-five days, Mr. Sánchez: many photos, many meetings, but not a single proposal. Well, after forty-five days of occupation of the Moncloa - because you're occupying the Moncloa - I think it's time to talk about the future. Today we have heard little of the future, nothing; we have heard much past, much ideology and much sectarianism but few proposals for the future. But, Mr Sánchez, you are occupying the Moncloa at a very high price, you are occupying the Moncloa paying a rent that you do not pay, the future of Spain pays it and you pay it to Mr Torra, Mr Puigdemont, Mr Rufián, Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party or Mr Iglesias. [[Applauds]] You have decided to dispense with the ballot box, minute sin: why go through the ballot box to be president if you can be in the hands of Torra, whom you described as the Le Pen of Spanish politics. You're absolutely right; or you were, because you now say that you have to talk and take walks through the Moncloa as if you were a head of state. In any case, Mr Sánchez, you have shown in your appearance after these forty-five days that this is a government without a parliamentary majority, that this is a government without a parliamentary majority - we saw the horrific ridiculous yesterday with Spanish Radio-television - that this is a government without votes in the ballot box because you have not passed the ballot box, that this is a government without a country plan and that this one, rather than a government, seems like an electoral committee for an election. [[Applauds]] But with sectarianism, with occurrences, with the pacts with the separatists, there is no future for Spain, Mr Sánchez. Are you going to make any of the future reforms that this country needs? For I have already advanced him that he will not do any; he is not able to take out the fingertips of Spanish Television, as to reform education. [[Applauds]] You also, Mr Sánchez, have shown that you want to go back to the past, to sectarianism, to divide this House, to divide the Spanish. You boosted the pact for education, an initiative that had not taken place in forty years in this House, a commission for a national pact for education, a commission where for the first time the protagonist was for teachers, for students and for parents, and not for politicians. And what did Mr. Sánchez do from Ferraz and outside this House? Order your deputies to stand up from the pact because he did not tolerate the People's Party, Citizens, the Socialist Party or We can try to reach an agreement. That is your policy, Mr Sánchez, that of confrontation, that of sectarianism, that of dogma in the face of consensus. And we, Mr Sánchez, believe that reforms, as they are important to this country, must be carried out with consensus and lasting in time. You only announce events, dogmas and ideological prejudices, now trying to divide education into public and concerted, as if both were not part of our public education system and, ultimately, making citizens choose when there is a model that is free, a model in which you can go to public or concerted education. No; the first thing you do is announce attacks on a part of the teachers and the people who are educating in our schools. Mr Sánchez, I have already told you that in the face of the sectarian policy that you are pursuing, we want a policy of consensus. Education is the most important issue in Spain. You not only don't have an educational model, you want to go back to the past, you want to face the Spaniards again for education. And you know what happened? That in eight educational reforms we have failed, many of them driven by his party. You said how cruel it is to talk about school failure. I do not know whether it is cruel or not because it is true that it is quite cruel to be the country of Europe with the most premature school leaving, but, Mr Sánchez, it is the truth, that is what you and the People's Party leave behind. Bipartisanism has left Europe's highest early school drop-out rate. That's the reality! [[Applauds]] Therefore, this government is not going to draw an educational pact because it is the government that has boosted the educational pact, Mr Sánchez. But in addition, are you going to make some reform in the face of Spain's first problem, which is job insecurity and unemployment? None. It is not going to do any because Mr Zapatero and you, as a member of that parliamentary group, have come to history because you are the most unemployed party in Europe and also shared in this case with the conservative governments. We have a work model that goes to the tail of Europe, leading precariousness and leading unemployment. And what do you propose? Nothing; go back to the past. He talks about derogations and we still don't know what his work model is. Can it govern, even temporarily, a government without having a work model when it is the first problem for Spain? You do not propose anything; you voted here a few weeks ago against equalizing the wages and rights of workers so that there are no first and second workers. They voted against in this House that we do not have first and second workers! They voted against the fight against precariousness! Your model is obsolete, Mr. Sanchez. I have heard what you said in the rostrum and socialism in Europe sounds like the 20th century, but we are in the 21st century. We must make modern policies and not obsolete ones like the ones you propose. Are you going to make any reform in the public administration? None. He does not want to suppress parliaments, nor does he want to suppress duplicity, nor does he want to reform the Senate. You're not going to make any reform in the public administration! Duplicity and, yes, more spending. Let all Spaniards take the wallet because Mr Sánchez has come with the machine of taxes and expenses; a very old recipe, by the way. It's very easy to shoot spending and raise taxes to the middle class. That is very easy, the complicated thing is to make reforms in the public administration, the complicated thing is to remove duplicities, the complicated thing is to change the economic model so that there is more revenue and, therefore, not to have to do that type of expenditure and that type of tax increase. Mr. Sanchez, you've announced the eight-tax increase. You have announced an increase in taxes to self-employed people who charge more than 40 000 euros. You propose to raise inheritance tax to families. Instead of removing the inheritance tax, which is what we get in Andalusia or Murcia and what is costing us a lot of work to remove, you propose putting more taxes on inheritance, the death tax. The minister has said that she wants to harmonise from above; not from below, not from below, she has announced in the Commission that what they want is to harmonise from above, that is to say, to raise taxes to families. You want to raise taxes on drivers. You haven't talked about that, Mr. Sanchez. The diesel! You want to put those who already have a diesel car purchased a tax to collect and pay their expenses, in this case for public administrations. Do you have to pay the drivers, who will hardly arrive many at the end of the month, their diesel oil? Your ideological questions, Mr Sánchez, are going to be paid by all the Spaniards. I agree that electric cars must be encouraged, we agree that the energy model must be changed, but not based on taxes and charges, but on incentives. Let's encourage it! [[Applauds]] But we already know that socialists like to raise taxes more than to encourage change of model. Liberals like to encourage change of model so that anyone who wants to innovate, whoever wants to have a different energy model, can have it easier. The liberal therefore innovates and incentivises; the socialists impose taxes and raise expenses. That is the difference between your economic model and ours, Mr Sánchez. But who else are they taxing? The savers. Mr Sánchez says - you are a doctor in economics, you say you are a doctor in economics and that is why I am very surprised at your statement - that the taxes you put on the bank will not impact on consumers. No, what's up? Everyone knows that banking is unselfish, that it is an NGO, and that when you impose a tax you will be paid out of your pocket by the CEOs of those banks. Man, Mr Sánchez, please, we are in the 21st century and in a Parliament! You cannot claim that the taxes imposed on a sector will not impact them. Of course it's going to hit them! And he knows who? Not the rich, the rich don't pay commissions for cards in banks, the rich don't pay commissions for having an account, but the savers, the pensioners, those are going to charge commissions. [[Applauds]] In short, tax hike - no news in the face of obsolete 20th century socialism - and trigger spending. We are opposed to this policy, Mr Sánchez, so we cannot agree with what you propose. Therefore, there will be no reform in education, in the world of work, in the public administration and in justice, I suppose Mr Sánchez will want to continue to finger the judges, such as the People's Party. And you about regeneration can't talk much. The lack of credit for public television has just been loaded, with a ridiculous horror, because it is true that the People's Party had done him a great deal of damage. But in six weeks you have done him the same damage as Mr Rajoy in seven years, the same. [[Applauds]] See if your government is fragile, Mr. Sánchez, that even the finger you had agreed has not come out of you. It's just that when you count the votes, they don't come out. Get up here and you won't get the sum out, Mr. Sanchez. How are you going to make profound reforms in this country if you are not able to approve a finger and a decree? [[Applauds]] It is impossible for this government to rule. And as far as regeneration policies are concerned, I have to say in the CIS. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, CIS surveys are being conducted by the Socialist Party. A forty-seven-year-old activist is going to do the CIS surveys. They're gonna be very reliable, of course. When you get to institutions, what do you do? Cover them; equal to or worse than PP. They have done exactly the same because in this they are blood brothers. Bipartisanism does the same: when turnism comes, it stays with the institutions. [[Applauds]] The Public Prosecutor's Office appointed by finger, the president of the Socialist CIS, the public broadcaster named by finger and above the vote does not come out, and the judges appointed by finger. Is Mr. Sanchez going to change the electoral law? No, he doesn't want to change it, he doesn't care. Mr Sánchez doesn't care that the votes are worth the same. Mr Sánchez is holding back an attempt that we have tried to push between the Podemos and Citizens Group; he is blocking the reform of the Electoral Law, he does not want votes to be equal, he does not want open lists. They are the same as the People's Party, exactly the same: old politics and old forms. As for equality, it is true that this Government proclaims equality and it is good news that there are more women ministers in this Government, but equality is exercised, not only proclaimed. You are opposed to shared custody, which is equality between fathers and mothers You are opposed to surrogate gestation with your prejudices and dogmas of the old, ancient past. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you oppose equality. Equality is not proclaimed, it is exercised; rights are given to exercise it, it is not only proclaimed. So equality, Mr Sánchez, between all the Spaniards. You spoke of equality as a sacred principle. Totally. Do you know how much the Basque Country, unlike Andalusia or another autonomous community, devotes to education? Double. That's not equality. That our children have different educational models in schools in Spain and also do not have the same rights is called inequality, which is what you propose. [[Applauds]] You are charging yourself with a policy that has been of consensus and state; on the one hand, anti-terrorism policy and, on the other hand, prison policy. Prison policy, Mr Sánchez, was a state policy until you came to the government. For a handful of seats - specifically five and two of Bildu, seven -, for negotiating seats to pay the rent of La Moncloa, is able to open the door to release and that has to explain it to us in this rostrum; you have to give explanations. We ask you to attend an extraordinary plenary session and not to come; you have come to this rostrum for an hour and a half and you have not said anything about the victims of terrorism or prison policy. I ask you directly, Mr Sánchez: will you allow prison privileges for ETA prisoners? Do you have to pay any bills to the gentlemen of Bildu or the PNV for the rent of La Moncloa? Do you think it is decent that in this country, which has struggled so much - you too, as the People's Party and all the constitutionalists - to put an end to this, at the last minute, so that you are president for a few months, what has cost forty years? Mr Sánchez, I believe that there are victims and executioners; that there are winners and losers in this story. [[Applauds]] The losers must be the murderers and the winners the Democrats; therefore, Mr Sánchez, explain to us what your prison policy is and why it has broken the constitutional consensus, why it has come out of the consensus with the People's Party and with Citizens in that agreement. You did not want to receive the victims; I know - the other day I met with the victims' associations - that you did not want to receive the victims; Torra did, but the victims did not. And the victims of terrorism deserve that the president, even if it is for a few months, even if it is interim, even if it is temporary, also receives them, and if you have to explain a prison change to them, he explains it to the victims by looking them in the eyes. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, about the tax amnesty, who will be on that list of tax amnesty that you don't want to publish? Can you explain who's on that list? [[Applauds]] You committed yourself in this rostrum, opposing Mr Rajoy, that as soon as he arrived at the government, even if he were, as in this case, through the back door, he would publish that list. You've come up to this rostrum and told us you're not going to publish it. Who's on the tax amnesty list? Is there a socialist, Mr Sánchez? Is there anyone you're afraid of getting to know? Because I tell you one thing, the sentence is actually firm, but that doesn't stop you from publishing the names, and you know it, because that's why you said it. If you said so in this rostrum and you knew that they can be published, can you explain to us which socialists there are on that list or which friends of the Socialist Party there are so that you do not dare to publish it? I demand, Mr. Sánchez, that you comply with what you said and publish that list. Correct and do not be afraid of transparency. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, this is a list of tax havens: Panama, Andorra, Bahamas, Aruba, San Marino, San Martín. Do you know who took all these tax havens off the list? You guys. The Socialist Party and Zapatero removed these tax havens from the list. [[Applauds]] You guys. Recover all those countries that are tax havens. Here, in this House, we have called for the resignation of a minister for being in tax havens, in this case in Panama's papers. The Socialist Party has removed these paradises from the list and now you announce that you are going to put them. All right; welcome to do the opposite of what you have done, but you have no legitimacy; the Socialist Party made two amnesties. And don't fool the Spaniards, please. You say: I will make a law so that I cannot make an amnesty myself. First of all, Mr Sánchez, I will tell you that those who are not going to do amnesty if we govern do not need laws that prevent us from doing so; we will never do them, you do. [[Applauds]] And, secondly, Mr Sánchez, he also made a law to ban amnesty Mr Solchaga, and he has already seen success, and Mr Montoro did another, because, as you know, a law is repealed by a later law. So don't cheat on fireworks ads; you cover up people who are on that list that you don't want to publish. He makes ads cheating on the Spaniards, but we don't cheat. Tell us who's on that list, tell us why you don't publish it and don't fool the Spaniards with wet paper ads like the ones you've done in this rostrum. I'm done. Mr Sánchez, with regard to Catalonia - in the reply I will also talk about it because I do not have any more time and I do not want it to happen as with other speakers - we will speak for sure afterwards, because it is an important issue; it is not Catalonia, it is Spain, equality is at stake, union is at stake and the Constitution must be defended. Mr Sánchez, the Constitution is not proclaimed, exercised and defended, and is defended in all the territories of Spain. You have looked elsewhere at the failure of the Head of State to attend certain events in Catalonia. It's a shame the government won't say a word. It is a shame that the President of the Government will not be muted when the head of a State cannot go to any part of that State. It's a shame. [[Applauds]] It is a shame, Mr Sánchez, that your party comrades make equidistances between the coup and the Democrats, because, whether you like it or not, Citizens, the People's Party, our councillors, our deputies, our voters, yours, are Democrats; they are Democrats with different ideology, but they do not skip the law, they defend it, like judges, like prosecutors, like cops, like all those in Catalonia who are the majority. What have you done? To win the vote of Mr Torra or Mr Rufián you change politics, break the constitutionalist bloc and make equidistance between the coupsmen, between those who cut roads, between those who storm the seats of the parties, and the Democrats. That's indecent, Mr. Sanchez. Not everything's good in politics. His equidistance between coups and democrats is indecent. [[Applauds]] So, Mr Sánchez, explain to us what you intend to do in Catalonia, beyond giving in to the nationalists. The comfortable way is to give in and appease. The right way is to uphold the law and defend those who defend democracy. We will always be with those who defend democracy, also with those of the Socialist Party. I believe that the socialists in Catalonia are also my compatriots and that we fight together for freedoms. Unlike you, I do not consider the members of your coup party, I regard them as democrats, and I know that there are a lot of people in the Socialist Party and voters who do not like to see how this government is equidistant between the constitutionalists and the coup. I'll defend you too, if I'm ever president, even if you're not from my party. I would like you to do the same with the members of my party, at least the months remaining for you as president. Mr Sánchez, the best thing to end this exhausted legislature would be to go through the polls. You're afraid of the ballot boxes, you lied...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u43	Mr. Rivera, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u44	I ended up president, really; give me ten seconds. You lied to the Spaniards, you don't want to go through the ballot boxes, you've been entangled and you've occupied La Moncloa with the separatists and the populists, but we in these remaining months will make opposition, we will defend the interests of Spain and, of course, between the comfortable and the right path - even if it's more difficult - we will always choose the right path. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u45	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u46	Thank you. Mr Sánchez, yesterday afternoon a citizen of Barcelona went down the street and was approached by a person who, in the cry of Viva España! and Long live Franco!, broke his face. I repeat, this citizen, a prestigious journalist, Jordi Borràs, was broken in the face of the cry of Viva España!, Viva Franco! [[The Lord]] Whoever broke his face was a national police officer, in fact identified himself as such; I think the Mossos d'Esquadra are looking for him. I hope that in a few hours you or Minister Marlaska will come out saying that you have immediately cleared this action. [[applause.-Pronounce words in Catalan]] Mr President, once the German justice system has said that it is only possible to extradite President Puigdemont to try him for an alleged misappropriation, I believe it is up to you to claim that you, who can do so, urge the State Attorney General to withdraw the accusations against the Government of Catalonia and those Catalan leaders - political prisoners - who are in prison or exile. No more montages, no more lies; there was no violence, even though it is true that many people present here would have wished there had been violence, but there was no violence. Yes, there was on 1 October, when the National Police and the Civil Guard beat up defenceless citizens who wanted to vote. Thus, it is enough of the judicial 'A for them' led by Judge Llarena, who is inspired by cruelty, revenge, Catalanophobia, pretending to scarment the Catalans so that in twenty years we will not try again. Therefore, freedom for political prisoners, freedom for exiles, because this, Mr Sánchez, is up to you. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, makes negative gestures]] It's up to you, yes; don't say no. We say that you can do it and that, in any case, you do not want to do it. Remember that we already told him that our Republican votes served to throw out the People's Party, which did not mean having to support his political project. If you are determined to make real progress in social transformations through left-wing policies, if you are willing to make real progress in freedoms through progressive policies, of course you will find us; now, I told you the first day that without fooling us. Do you know what it means not to get caught? To agree, to give quality, to return to the scenario in which the socialist word had much value, the value of the socialist word that had existed; because you and we have papers signed by Mr Rubalcaba and myself on behalf of the Republican Left, which promised us to repeal the most regressive laws of the People's Party when possible, when the correlation of forces changed. Why now do we have to accept what I said, Diego? The papers signed by Mr Rubalcaba and by us committed us to repeal, for example, Lomce, which is why I ask you now: What is going to happen to Lomce? What's going to happen to the law of gags? What is going to happen to labour reforms? What's going to happen? Where did I say, Diego? It's not good for us. We will therefore be paying attention to all this, just as we will be paying attention to what they intend to do in these months which are the preamble to a possible agreement for possible General State Budgets next year. It would only make sense for us to work together if these budgets were to undo the path initiated by the People's Party towards the total dismantling of the welfare state; therefore, we will have to talk about pensions and how to guarantee their recovery, we will have to talk about the increase in health spending, we will have to talk about the reduction in military spending, because it is a shame that the 10 billion budgeted in defense now you announce - you have announced these days - 5 billion more. We will not meet if you do not disallow your defence minister who has already said they are committed to adding another 5 billion. Can you imagine the social policies we could carry out with these 5 billion more? We would have guaranteed the Dependency Act. Yeah, laugh, laugh. [[Applauds]] We will also have to talk about increasing investment in the Valencià Country, in the Balearic Islands and in Catalonia; we will also have to talk about how, once and for all, the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises is enhanced; we will also have to talk about how macho and heteropatriarchal society is buried. How are they going to bury a macho and heteropatriarchal society if the first thing the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence have done is to compensate two members of La Manada? How do you do this? How do they send a message that they really want to bury this society - I repeat, sexist and heteropatriarchal - if the first thing those two ministries do is to make up - yes, I say make up - for two members of La Manada? Get up here and say something. In short, if you make a left turn, we will be with you; if what you pretend is a make-up, you will not find us. I'm going to put some examples of alleged makeup buttons on it. We have always criticized you for not having the courage to annul the judgments of the Francoist courts, you have not even recognized the responsibility of the Kingdom of Spain in everything that belongs to the Catalan and Spanish Republicans who died in the Nazi extermination camps; you have never returned to us the assets of legal persons of Republican Esquerra and also of natural persons who were seized by Francoism, you have not even had the honesty to recognize the guerrilla anti-fascists, maquis, to whom Spanish legislation still considers bandits. [[Applauds]] They never wanted to recognize anything; it is more to us, that in 2007 we said no to the Memory Law because it was not homologable to the rest of the laws that were made in other democratic states that suffered fascist pasts, we have been told a thousand times socialist deputies here revanchists. And now it turns out that you want to correct it? All right, correcting is wise. Now, I tell you, they won't find us, we won't vote for them if they're trying to fool us again. If you want to make a law to truly repair the victims of Francoism, you will find us; if you want to make up, we, as in 2007, will not vote for any such initiative. [[Applauds]] Nor will they find us if they do not commit themselves to the fight against those who violate human rights, either by outsourcing a non-democratic management of the migration and refugee crisis or by profiling themselves. You are making a profile in the face of something very serious that happens in a neighbouring country. [[Show a picture]] This is the last demonstration in Rabat on Sunday. Thousands of people are going out because their democratic rights are being violated; the people of Rif suffer from real economic exploitation. You know perfectly well what the suffering of the Amazigh people means, of the Rifeño people. [[Show an image of the Amazigh flag]] We are already talking about dozens and dozens of young people in prison, of sentences of three hundred years. [[Applauds]] How can we talk about human rights and allow this to happen in Morocco, a manifest oppression, when we should be bound? Or don't we remember the pain caused by the Spanish colonial army? Even today you refuse to recognize the damage caused, the chemical war of the Spanish colonial army. Even today they are not even able to recognize it. In fact, you won't find us if you also remain installed to sell weapons to Saudi Arabia. They still have Saudi Arabia as their preferred customer in the sale of arms, a state that commits war crimes in Yemen, dirty business, dirty Spanish business that serves other Crown business in Saudi Arabia. [[Applauds]] Yeah. That is why we denounce that you, together with the People's Party, have always hidden the corruption of the Royal House. In fact, they have been trying to create a Maginot line for many years so that even Members could not do the task of monitoring us. I remind you that Esquerra Republicana even had to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights because the Spanish Government was not even able to accept the questions asked by the Members. We therefore support, together with other Republican forces, the creation of a commission of inquiry in this Congress to ensure that corruption is known once and for all. The shit's all over the place. [[Applauds]] Finally, there is something very important that I think is worth listening to. If they put as a condition to advance in dialogue the denial of the referendum of self-determination, not only will we not find ourselves, but there will be no solution to the current conflict. I'll give you an example. Five years ago you rejected, together with the People's Party, the dialogue on the basis of the failure to take into account the request of the Catalan Parliament to hold a referendum. Here's a request. Of course, if there had been acceptance of the proposal, it would have been negotiated and possibly the referendum would not have been the one we had intended. We don't know what would have happened. What we do know is that five years ago we did not know what the consequences of that refusal were. I will tell you what the consequences of that refusal have been: firstly, criminalization of the September 2015 elections, which led to the violent repression of 1 October; two, imprisonment of the leaders of the Catalan social movement; three, unconstitutional application of Article 155; four, exile and prison of the Catalan Government; five, deep abyss, unfortunately, between Catalan society and Spanish society; six, offensive of some public and private media to break Catalonia and for companies - offensive of the People's Party government - linked to the IBEX - Catalan companies - to leave Catalonia, which is an enormous stupidity, even from a historical point of view, because they have boosted the ancestry that the Catalan bourgeoisie could have in the same Catalan society; seven, contempt of the National Audience, converted into a TOP, a court of public order, contempt of the Constitutional Court and contempt of the Supreme Court, and finally an international image of the Kingdom of Spain frankly low cost democracy. Look, there have been somewhat stunned attitudes: the Ambassador of the Dominican Republic dares to coerce deputies of the Dominican Republic because they had expressed, making use of their sovereignty, solidarity with Catalan political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Mr President, I end with a question for Mr Sánchez, which is the question. Following Newton's argument that the same causes have the same effects, the million-dollar question for us is next, Mr Sánchez. What makes you think today, in 2018, that putting as a condition for the agreement the refusal to referendum, that is, to apply the solution of 2014 and reject the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia will not cause the same effects? That is, should a good part of the Catalans resort again to disobedience or, instead, will you and we be able to negotiate on the basis of the rights - attention, yours and ours - of all? Here's the question. Will we repeat the error of the year 2014? Remember, Turull, Rovira and Joan Herrera came and offered a negotiation and said no. Consequences: 1 October and 27 September. Are we going to make the mistake of 2014? Here's the question. [[Applauds]] This is the question, Mr Sánchez. If we are condemned to disobey again, tiredness for the Spaniards and tiredness for the Catalans. [[Applause of the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that when you hear the debate, there are things here that seem to be unchanged. Mr Rivera - also in the same language as Mr Hernando - said that you are supported by communists and separatists, he said literally. The red-separatist alliance returns. It's like we're reading a Civil War book. It seems that the war-civilist vocabulary does not leave the Spanish right. We must change our minds a little and open up the democratic spirit, the multiplicity and diversity of agreement. I shall begin, Mr President, with the European summit. The truth is, you haven't grown any longer, and I'm not going to do it for my short time either. The truth is that it was going to be the star theme of the summit, in fact it was, but for bad. You say that you argued that responses to a global challenge were from joint positions, but the solutions offered - if any, indeed, were offered - have been to continue with individual solutions and the unilateral decision of States. On the other hand, balls were thrown forward, balls to follow, we'll see what happens to the platforms, etc., and if you make any decisions together, by October you might be able to value something... There has been no agreement, the only agreement he has brought is with Germany, but it was not really about that either, because we bring immigrants from Germany to Spain and, in return, we receive money. Obviously, we need to talk about money and funds to meet the entire immigration challenge, but that is not the case. It is a matter of addressing a comprehensive policy and of Europe putting its own rules on the location and movement of migrants. Frankly, the agreement between two parties, nothing more, between Germany and Spain, seems to me to provide little. [[The lady]] I'm going to go to the four axes that you have manifested and that I had also selected to speak today. I truly believe that these are the pillars on which the development of your Government and of any Government must take place. The first challenge, talking about economics but social cohesion too, is the Toledo Pact. I believe it is an urgent and inexcusable duty to ensure that the pension system works and to turn the system completely where it is needed, because there have been many things that have been very afraid to touch them. I believe that thanks to our agreement, an agreement with the previous government - with Mr Urkullu too, Mr Hernando - with Mr Urkullu, because thanks to our agreement we have managed to buy some time for that, I believe that this update on the basis of the CPI is positive, also on the issue of widowhood, in the delay of the sustainability factor. But, of course, that is not enough, what is at stake is that the system is viable in the future, and I believe that we must all devote ourselves to that. On the subject of work, I believe that some reforms should be made, although it may not be possible to make a complete reform; but I am in favour - although you have not said so, some of the members of your Government have said so - of recovering the ultraactivity beyond what the 2014 Supreme judgment meant. There is talk of prioritising sectoral agreements on enterprise. It seems good to me, but I would like to remind you that we had an agreement with the Zapatero Government, which was subsequently not made effective by the dissolution of the Government, in which it was said that there would be a prevalence of the area of autonomous negotiation where there are different and more representative trade unions than those at the state level, over those in the sector at the state level. I think that should continue to be taken into account by your Government. I welcome the relaxation in the deficit path - that is what we have been telling the government over and over again - and it has not been a whim - as Mr Hernando says - because it is based on the AIReF report. Then I think it was what had to be done, we had to have done it long ago, I don't know if it wasn't possible or the will wasn't enough. But, of course, those five tenths are going to help a lot to make things more rational. Two tenths to the Autonomous Communities? Well, good. But here is one question: we must seriously consider, Mr President, making the spending rule more flexible. If it does not change, increasing expenditure is not possible even if it improves collection, unless income increases on a structural basis. If a rule of spending is necessary - if necessary -, what needs to be done is to re-evaluate and reformulate it. He has already warned of his intention to introduce changes in taxes. We think it's right that he should do it. But I want to remind you of something: you have to agree them in the case of the Basque Country. And some taxes are not innocuous in their effects, because obviously the modification of the state sphere has effects and, therefore, I think we need to talk in advance about exactly what these tax measures are going to be. But we do not refuse; we see it interesting that we can turn all this around, to societies, to new taxes. Well, let's talk about it all. There is an important challenge - and you have said so - which is the policy on the structure of the state and in Catalonia and Euskadi basically today. I think it is necessary to address it; you have also pointed that out. It is a challenge, but at the same time, Mr President, I think it can be taken as an opportunity. I believe that things are better in order to start a dialogue than they were very recently with their new Government. And I think you should think of a solution for several generations, not to settle with punctual agreements, but to be, even courageous, to be bold and to see the possibilities so that we can reach lasting agreements. You've talked about opening deals, that you're reaching out. He has obviously spoken of reaching out to all groups for support to his Government in this House. He also held his hand in a discussion in the area of Catalan self-government. I believe that it is necessary for us all to reach out, so I also ask you that in the area of Basque self-government, to which you have not referred, but which is currently under debate and discussion in the Basque Parliament, you do the same because we are prepared to agree; but if you do not offer something, if you do not say exactly what you would be willing to do... You said it, we need to talk about what we're willing to agree on. If it's just the no for the no, I don't like this, well we'll see if the Constitution changes, so it's very difficult to reach an agreement. In order to reach an agreement, it is necessary for both parties to want to do so, and that is why, Mr President, I ask you - because I believe that is what we must all do - to extend a hand and offer, to offer possible agreements. It is also possible to agree on the Basque self-government, but for that we need to know what the Socialist Party wants, what the Socialist Party would be willing to do and what it would do, not just with the no and the good, we will see what happens if the Constitution is reformed. You spoke on another occasion - and I was absolutely in agreement - that Europe is already a matter of internal policy rather than foreign policy. I am concerned and I would like to know your opinion, because if this is an internal policy issue and, of course, all the expressions with minimal roots should be present in the areas of European discussion, we are very concerned about the decision that has been taken not with regard to these forthcoming elections, but with the following ones in the European sphere to restrict by a very high percentage for important realities at regional level, at the level of autonomous communities, at the level of areas that are inferior to the state, because with these rules it will be very difficult for them to access. I think it is not good for that to happen, because of course Europe is going to lose wealth, also from voices that are fully European. I do not understand that the Spanish state still has a single constituency when France, which is a centralist country, has several constituencies for the European Parliament, and also in the United Kingdom, etc. Therefore, I would at least like to hear from your mouth that you would defend or will try to defend that those political expressions that are majority in your areas may have the opportunity to compete on equal terms with the rest of the political formations. I also encourage you, Mr President, to comply with prison legislation, to move forward in prison matters, and I am obviously talking about the rapprochement of prisoners; with all the attention to the victims and the groups who represent them, with all respect and putting them on the front line, but it is time to do things to improve Euskadi's coexistence as well. We were talking about cohesion, and I think this is also important, no one is asking for the law to be broken but the other way around, what we are asking is to be bolder because the few movements that have been and have been made regarding the last government have been made by the judges. The Nanclares route never existed, although the Government said it supported it, the only steps taken on the Nanclares route were thanks to the decisions of the judges. The Government remained impassable without wanting to take a step and without wanting to comply with the law. In addition, I will tell you something, there is no Government here that has not spoken on the subject of prisoners, and some in a manner not as public as you are doing. There is no government in the past that has not spoken about these issues. Therefore, be complex, I encourage you to take steps, and I believe that it would be an important step in improving coexistence in Euskadi and that you would not be in breach of the legislation. As for the Historical Memory Act, I have always believed that the Historical Memory Act has great potential whenever the government wants to do things. Moreover, I would say that there is no need to reform much; I would reform it in some things, but there is no need to reform it much; what is needed is an active policy, an active management of the Government by promoting specific issues, from the topic, for example, of the pits, coordinating, putting funds, etc. I also tell you that the Historical Memory Act is linked to certain legislative initiatives. The Official Secrets Act has been paralysed here, blocked between the People's Party and the Socialist Party for months and months, almost two years, and honestly the amendments that you put to the Official Secrets Act worry me and very much, Mr President, the socialist amendments to the Official Secrets Act worry me. You are in favour of not declassifying anything at all, not even the papers of the Civil War until 2030, and I do not want to tell you by now when you send other types of papers, for example those that could generically declassify the government of Zapatero in Moratinos times. In addition, I find this of classifying documents generically as secrets very unbecoming of a democratic country. I ask you that the Historical Memory Act also be demonstrated there, in that Official Secrets Act, and that we take steps already in the Commission and in the right direction. The Organic Law of the Constitutional Court was adopted here, it was taken into consideration, it is still stopped, it is still blocked, I see no will on the part of your group. And in the law, I hope we take a few steps. I also ask that there be no abusive judicial use in the area of legislation and policy. The other day we were asking the Minister of Education about the resources for the Euskadi scholarships, the only autonomous community that has that previous competence. It did not clarify whether or not they are going to follow that policy of judicializing everything, and I think it would be an important sign that they do not continue on that path. By the way, I was talking about regulating dual formation - I'm running out of time and I'm going very fast. It seems good to me, but as long as they don't ruin a dual formation that works, the only one that works in the state, that of Euskadi, that works and does it very well. Let's not get into regulation and in the end what we're doing well translates into putting Corsican. Forget about state covenants - not because we don't have the will - because here every time you talk about a state covenant, either for water, or for education, or for whatever it is, it never comes out. It never comes out. If you have anything to propose, propose it. Do you have anything to propose in education? Propose it, we will defend our competences, understanding that - as the statute says - they come from the first additional provision and that we are no longer an autonomous community, but if you have any initiative in that sense you propose it. And as for the Law of Universities - which is well developed already by the Conference of Rectors; it is a rather hard-working topic - I think it could be an initiative that could come forward. I conclude, because I have already exceeded the time - but I have been more moderate than other speakers, Madam President, as you well know - by telling you that I also want to talk about dialogue; when they accuse you of concessions - it is the same as they accused the previous government - the nationalists, the PNV, this, the other - Mr Rivera always says the same - concessions? No, they're agreements as legitimate as others. Political agreements, that is what politics is about, and I hope that in that sense we can make progress in what is left of the legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u49	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President Sánchez, yesterday Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart have been in prison for nine months. So talking about political normality with political prisoners and exiles is very difficult. In the streets of Barcelona on Saturday thousands of Catalans again showed pain and indignation at this situation. And the decision that German justice has made, which is quite a sham to the judicial strategy of Judge Llarena and the previous government, is an opportunity for the new State Attorney General to rethink her judicial strategy, an opportunity to free political prisoners. In addition, Mr President, I would advise the Government to make an in-depth reading of the Constitutional Court's ruling of 8 January 1988 on the Anti-Terrorism Act - an appeal submitted by the Catalan Parliament and the Basque Parliament at the time - where it was clearly established that the offences of rebellion by definition are carried out by a group which has the purpose of unlawful use of weapons of war or explosives, with a view to bringing about the destruction or overthrow of the constitutional order. That's not what happened in Catalonia! The crimes of rebellion are not justified, and the decision of the German courts gives us reason. There is an opportunity and I hope, Mr President, that in the interests of the general interest they will take advantage of it. Secondly, Mr President, the institutional dialogue with the Government of the Generalitat has been reopened. Step one; welcome that normality, but the distances are enormous. Without boldness, without political courage, without a historical sense of what has happened and what can happen the conflict between Catalonia and the institutions of the State will not be overcome. I invite you to have this historical meaning and to place the ground of the political conflict on the ground of democracy, which is what expresses the demand of the referendum in Catalonia, which is a majority in Catalonia, which has the courage to address the fundamental question posed to it by Catalan society. In parallel, bilateral commissions will be opened. Welcome; there are non-compliances, there are outstanding issues, there are competing conflicts. Let us be able through these bilateral joint committees to begin to resolve those outstanding issues and to comply with the legislation. But, Mr President, I must remind you that the motion of censure triumphed over the Catalan sovereignist votes, that to a large extent its political stability will depend on these Catalan sovereignist votes, that our votes were a few months ago to cast President Rajoy, but that today our votes will only be on the side of the Government to the extent that this bilateral dialogue gives concrete, effective and tangible results, and does not remain in good words. If you don't, you can hardly count on us. Mr President, you have announced the approval of the expenditure ceiling. I have to say that those 2 tenths of margins for the autonomous communities, being welcome, are clearly insufficient. If we add to this the serious breaches in the area of autonomous financing, which continue to undermine the Generalitat's ability to guarantee the essential public services it manages, they will not find us there. Therefore, before making decisions, be able to create the conditions that allow that House to approve that decision, and also incorporate in that dimension the need for the spending rule for local corporations to be made more flexible for this year, allowing municipalities to build an adequate budget for 2019. A tax policy with new taxes has been announced. Here you know that our position will be to analyse the proposals put forward by us, but whatever it is to impose on the middle classes, on the working classes, on the small and medium-sized enterprises and on the self-employed, it will not count on our support. The obligation is not for those who pay taxes to pay more taxes, but for those who do not pay them to do so. That's where he's gonna find us. I believe that the Agreement on Employment and Collective Bargaining, which the social partners reached a few weeks ago, is a great opportunity to build a shared road map on job creation and wage recovery. It's a good route; let's be able to exploit it and take advantage of it. There the challenge of Parliament and the Government - and of your Minister for Labour - is fundamental, and there, Mr Sánchez, I have noted in your speech a glaring absence of reference to self-employed workers. The Government, in its first general policy debate, has been unable to announce to us any positive measures affecting the self-government collective. I'm done, Madam President. We are in a new time that demands something more than gestures and attitudes. It demands tangible realities, political audacity and historical sense. I hope that the Government will rise to this challenge. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's been going out here, Mr. Hernando and Mr. Rivera, and we've been lost in this. Seriously, it was only for hearing them that it was worth voting for a new president. A message to Mr Hernando and candidate Casado: this week a thug has come, a fanfare to Europe; he is named Trump and has said that Europe is an enemy of the United States. That is why, because the European Council was disappointing, we need a more united, stronger and more social Europe. These calls for the abolition of the Schengen Treaty of free movement of persons therefore seem to us to be reckless. Be careful to re-establish borders, be careful to make us smaller, because thugs always mess with the smaller ones. And now, speaking of a little Valencian policy, I have to say that Mr Ábalos made some statements last Sunday in which he said that he did not intend to condone the autonomous debt, the opposite of what he said just a year ago, when he proposed a withdrawal for Catalonia and also expandable for other communities, including Valencia. We have a debt of 46 billion, the result of twenty years of the People's Party, money from others that you managed so badly. Of these millions, 20 000 are the result of under-financing, approximately 13 billion each year. You, Mr Sánchez, first told us that you were not going to solve the financing, then Mr Ábalos says that you do not intend to condone the autonomous debt caused by that under-financing, and the only thing you offer us today are 2 tenths more deficit, deficit caused by the State itself, resulting from under-financing. What message are you sending us to the Valencians? The same one that sent us the PP in the last six and a half years? Mr Sánchez, we don't need to be in debt anymore, we need fair funding to be able to pay for basic services on equal terms with the rest of our citizens. Mr Sánchez, in less than a month you have already met with the presidents of Euskadi and Catalonia, you have talked about reactivating the bilateral commission, withdrawing constitutional resources in Catalonia, and Compromís seems perfect, because we understand that problems can only be solved if there is dialogue, but the world is bigger, the world is not reduced to Euskadi and Catalonia. A socialist and progressive government would have to begin to fix the problems of those who are worse off; a question of priorities, of common sense. When do you plan to meet with the Valencian government? We've read that before the end of the year, and the truth is that we're pretty disappointed. When do you plan to withdraw resources from Valencian social laws? Because it has already done so late with the Housing Act and we would not like it to be late with the Energy Poverty Act and other agreements. I'm done. Mr Sánchez, I ask you for courage; courage to get Franco out of the Valley of the Fallen, courage to apply taxes to large companies, to publish the tax amnesty, to clarify the affairs of the Emeritus King, to repeal the labor reform and the Law gag, to apply the historical memory, to democratize energy, to shield pensions and to implement once and for all a fair financing that allows us to live with equality. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u53	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u54	Thank you very much. Egun on. After hearing you, Mr Sánchez, and your ministers these days, I have become increasingly clear that a period of permanent election campaign is opening up, in which the Government's communications consist of countless announcements that in practice come to cover up that there is nothing more than that, blows of effect, that want to simulate substantial changes to follow to a large extent where we were. Many words and few facts. One clear example: the only real decree that has been validated has been that of Spanish Broadcasting, which is not to say an example of new ways of acting. For Euskal Herria Bildu to submit to the House an endless number of plenarys so that the parties choose the board of directors is not the way to depoliticize the entity and support the workers' claims, and having not launched the public contest previously has more than one responsible. This is a clear example of what we see in the new government, something like a yes, but no; a government that talks about dialogue, but refuses to talk about the right to decide, simply saying that it does not exist, will not face the political problem that it has in Catalonia or in Euskal Herria differently from what has been done. He tells us about historical memory, while he pursues these days to those who denounce impunity for the events of the San Fermines of 78. He speaks to us of the legal truth as the only one existing to continue denying the existence, for example, of torture, although there is a civilian guard, Manuel Pastrana, who recognizes it - this is symptomatic, I do not know if they are going to act -. And we wonder what is the legal truth to which they cling, which makes the rapists of a young woman in the San Fermines enjoy a privileged situation, because the law reduces the gravity of the rape by its criminalization of sexual offences. We are also told that they will act with the law in hand, even defend themselves from the PP attacks, following the positive announcement of prison policy, arguing that the Rajoy government was also preparing for it with the reports it had requested. However, in a reply sent to this Member a few days ago, we are told that these reports are nothing exceptional, but something usual, that does not exist, that is not being prepared, and that there is no intention of drawing up any list of prisoners likely to be approached. What are we left with? Are you going to act with the law in your hand? Are they going to end the policies of exception not only from the distance, but also from the denial of progression of degrees? Yes or no? Less words and more facts. I could give many other examples. We have talked here about that promise that they intend to fail, because they are not going to make public the list of those who benefited from the tax amnesty, and we wonder if this action is only due to the fact that the Emeritus King is in the middle or is what they are going to do with many other promises. Let go of excuses, less words and more facts. And I am going to refer, in conclusion, to the European Council. You take part in the obsession with border closure, to lock migrants in centres, yes, that's what you've approved, you're walking towards a Europe of defence that we don't share. You are not more Europeanists for following Community policy in this area or in the excessive commitment to austerity together, you are only collaborating with the impetus to a model of unjust and insolidary society, and you are already progressing that this is not our model. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Executive, Members of the Central Government of Spain, Members of Parliament, very good morning. With just two minutes left, Mr Sánchez, I will tell you what the nuclear message of the Navarro People's Union is in the face of this almost nation state debate. You call for early general elections, but not because we do not question at all an instrument as democratic and constitutional as is the motion of censure, it is not for that reason, but, first of all, because in the Union of the Navarro People we do not trust the partners who accompany you, especially those political forces, Mr Sánchez, who are currently drafting in the Parliament of Vitoria a new Basque statute, and who want to include Navarra in a future and hypothetical Basque state. I would like to hear from you, as President of the Executive and representative of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, what you think about the interests of the Foral Community of Navarre. The second reason why we are asking you for early general elections, Mr Sánchez, is that the photograph of this House is far from what has happened in civil society in our country after two years. So what we are also going to demand from you, and I say this with all due respect, is that you comply with up to the last cent of the state's general budgets, which is the most relevant law that has democratically been passed this year in this House. It also encourages all the members of its Executive to respond to the letter it has received from the Navarro People's Union to meet with them in those ministries that have to do with public investments committed by law in the State General Budgets for the Foral Community of Navarra. Mr Sánchez, if you call elections and win them, I can anticipate that from the programme you have presented here today you will have the support of the Navarro People's Union on those issues that have to do with the universalisation of health. You will have our support on those three axes of improvement and to reverse the situation of dependency in our country. And we will also support you in improving the purchasing power of pensioners. I would like to recall in this House that the first political party that demanded from the previous government an improvement in the remuneration of pensioners was Union del Pueblo Navarro, on 21 February. Now, in what we will not find, Mr Sánchez, it will be in what has to do with euthanasia, as well as in the breakdown of the unity and coexistence of our country. And what we will never find, Mr Sánchez, will be in the rapprochement of the prisoners in those cases where they have not repudiated their past in the terrorist band ETA or asked for forgiveness from the victims. One more thing and I'm done, Madam President. I'm holding your hand, too, Mr. Sanchez. I hold my hand so that, after the autonomous elections of the Foral Community of Navarre, we re-edit the twenty-five years practically uninterrupted of agreements, with their improvements and with the points that have not worked as we would have liked. Let us repeat those agreements for the sake of the good and progress of the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, this is the first time that we have met in Parliament with a President invested without the mandatory political programme provided for in Article 99.2 of the Spanish Constitution, who is now bringing us a programme to which this House cannot give or withdraw confidence, and with which it intends to cover the whole of the legislature. Hence the importance of its commitment to comply with the Law on General Budgets of the State for 2018, recently approved by the Courts, for which execution is less than half a year. Its renunciation of the reform of the autonomous financing system, giving continuity to what was adopted in 2009, as measured by the Catalan tripartite, is an example of the inequality and discrimination that is looming for the autonomous communities that have been fulfilling their obligations of budgetary stability. Meanwhile, an à la carte funding is announced for the Generalitat de Catalunya, which will only serve to give wings and new brions to those who despise legality and intend to attack the unity of Spain. Its unthinkable and hasty call to the European Council to communicate a Copernican turn of the national energy policy has sparked all the alarms, because it involves the beginning of a phase of heating of electricity, as well as desertification and impoverishment in a very concrete way for the mining basins, for the Spanish industry and especially for the electro-intensive, on which tens of thousands of jobs, stable and qualified, depend. And all this without knowing how the electricity demand that today meets the thousands of megawatts that coal brings will be met. Perhaps you are hiding from us that your Government intends to increase the percentage of nuclear electricity? Mr Sánchez, Asturias needs to guarantee today that it will implement, in the remainder of the year, as promised a month ago in this very forum, the investments envisaged in the budgets to connect us with the Spanish high-speed network without discrimination, to vertebrate its interior geography with the pending motorways, to reactivate the motorway of the sea, and to undertake policies that correct youth unemployment and the serious demographic crisis, exacerbated by the ageing of the population, to which you have certainly made hardly any reference this morning. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u59	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas-Gonzalez Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u60	Thank you, Madam President. It is difficult in two minutes to talk about a European summit and the state of the nation, but I will try, Mr Sánchez. Firstly, with regard to European policy, there are three key issues for the Canary Islands. We support the agreements it has concluded on immigration, because that is what Spain called for in 2006 and 2007 and Europe looked elsewhere. Secondly, we support the immediacy of Minister Marlaska and Minister Borrel in moving to Morocco and Algeria. We believe that it is an opportunity for the Minister of Health to be in Tenerife this week with the Ministers of Health of Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania to regain that policy of cooperation which the Socialist Government did at the time, and which is fundamental for the times ahead. With regard to the Brexit, I would like to say that we hope that the Committee on Coordination with the Autonomous Communities will recover - it was chaired by the Vice-President of the previous Government, and perhaps it would be more logical if it were now chaired by the Minister of Economic Affairs - because 80% of Canarian agricultural exports go to the United Kingdom, and also because more than 80% of Tenerife's tourism is from the United Kingdom - if we were a country, we would be the third destination for the United Kingdom in tourism - and it is very important to recover that follow-up committee with the Autonomous Communities. I cannot fail to mention the fisheries agreement with Morocco - there is the Minister of Agriculture - because we have stopped the fleet. It is essential to continue to deepen this. I'm done with the Canary Islands thing. You have spoken about the Canary Islands agenda, and we cannot wait for the meeting with the President of the Canary Islands to activate the agreements of the Canary Islands Employment Plan, which corresponds to Work; the Educational Infrastructure Plan, which relates to the Minister of Education; the Roads Agreement, to Mr Ábalos; the Agreement of hydraulic and coastal works, which corresponds to the Minister of Ecological Transition; and the Minister of Industry and Tourism the Agreement of tourist infrastructures. These are the main ones. The problem that we have had - Mr Ábalos suffered, but it was not his intention or mine, but it was misinformed - is that the new ministers do not know that there is a REF, that there are budget headings and defined agreements, but that there are officials who arrive and say they will already see if they sign for four years. No, in the case of the Canary Islands, they must be multiannual agreements with the autonomous communities. There are the budget items. It is fundamental, because right now in the Canary Islands there are still two hundred thousand unemployed, 5 points more than in the rest of Spain. Although there are 5 points less since in Extremadura and Andalusia, we have had twenty thousand people in the last year to work in the Canary Islands. These employment plans and investments will enable the Canary Islands to be able to emerge from the crisis in a powerful way and with state policies. As long as you implement the state policies that we agreed two years ago for the Canary Islands, when we support you in the investiture, the Canary Coalition will be loyal to the government, loyal to this country, and we will reach out to you in all that this country needs. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u61	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u62	Good morning - almost late - to all and everyone, ladies and gentlemen. For almost an hour and a half the President of the Government has broken his government programme and what the Council of Europe has been, and what we find ourselves taking the floor at the right of the House is that it turns this into a sort of tavern, which begins to speak with a war-civilist language, almost patibulary, about things to which, if I may say so and with the respect I have, Mr Hernando, I would like to reply. First, why so much grudge, Mr. Hernando, why so much anger, so much frustration, why so much aggression? Does it hurt so much to leave power? Do you not realize that it is good for you even to renew yourself, to regenerate yourself; that it is good for you to pass on to the opposition yourself? [[Applauds]] If we have done them a favor the rest of the House. He spoke of the weakness of the Government. No, weakness that of the opposition, weakness that of you, who are in the opposition frustrated and also divided. Do not tell us about the weakness of the Government or the group that supports the Government. [[Applauds]] Half of his speech has dealt with prisoners. By the way, they look more and more like the blue right and the orange right of the House, because they have made an almost mimetic speech. I understand that you are concerned about the prisoners, about their prisons, about their situation. Believe me, I understand, because you have a few in Spanish prisons, Mr. Hernando. [[Applauds]] The concern they have is normal, but I am going to ask you to address this parliamentary group and this party with respect, which has lost many comrades in the streets of Euskadi and all of Spain, exactly as the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Address us with respect, because, as I said, we have lost many comrades for defending freedom and democracy. Have respect for us as a party and keep it to yourself, because it seemed rather that the one I was talking to was Mr Aznar, who approached ETA prisoners when the band was still killing in the streets of Spain, when Ortega Lara was kidnapped and when, by the way, he was talking about the Basque liberation movement. [[shows a press article]] [[applause]] It seems that you speak for him rather than for the President of the present Government. Mr. Rivera, what would be yours without Puigdemont? What would be yours without the territorial crisis in this country? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] What would be yours without the social fracture in Catalonia? What will become of you when we can solve this? Your party will disappear with complete certainty. [[Applauds]] He makes a speech full of symbolism and ideology and, however, says he does not like to talk about ideology and accuses our government president of making ideology. Do you know why you don't like to talk about ideology? Because unlike the People's Party, which doesn't hide that it's the right, you do, and that's what makes the worst right, hide what they are: the biggest neoliberals this country has. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, when we talk about education, health, the public pension system, the unemployed, the prices of rent, we are talking about ideology. Is that why you don't want to talk about this either? By the way, it must be very rare for a socialist government to put socialists at the head of ministries. I thought we were going to call you; Garicano, maybe. [[Applauds]] Yes, of course, the President of the Government has put socialists at the head of his Government, because this is a leftist, socialist government. Just over a month ago, this country lived in despair because of the disastrous consequences of seven years of People's Party governments and because Spanish society was suffering every day from the political current of social cuts - which, by the way, you supported day by day, Mr Rivera - and trampled on in terms of their rights; yes, yes, like cuts in health, in education, the Law bites, etc. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Zapatero]] I always respect you when you intervene and I never interrupt you, Mr Rivera; please do the same. A little respect in this House at least. [[Applauds]] The motion of censure was based on the recovery of institutional normality and the regeneration of democratic life, strongly damaged - and believe me I am sorry, gentlemen of the People's Party - for the episodes of corruption of your party, for a ruling that we had a president of the government whom the judges did not believe when he went to a court to testify as a witness and a People's Party, which supported the government, corrupt to the core. They're going to sell up to Genoa, Mr. Hernando, please! [[Applauds]] There is no back door in the Constitution. I know that more and more you and Rivera mimetize - they talk about back door, rent, debts, etc. - but in the motion of censure there was no back door because in the Constitution there is neither back door nor there is any fraud. The motion went forward and forth and got the absolute majority of this House, hardly weighing it on them. What should the government do? Above all, to address the problems of social urgency that have left the economic crisis and the ideological cuts of the People's Party Government, reversing the policies that have caused the most inequality and have left the most vulnerable people in the worst situation, and to do so we need to talk about economic consolidation, as the President of the Government did in his speech. New general economic policies must be tools to transform the productive model. Spain cannot continue to grow in precariousness, which was its political model, its growth model, Mr Hernando. Notice, they increased productivity by adjusting the workforce, precariousing employment and lowering wages, so that in these six and a half years a new category of workers appeared in this country: poor workers; 15% of poor workers who do not arrive at the end of the month, who do not even have to fill the shopping basket. That's his economic policy. [[Applauds]] In 2013, the People's Party fulminated the Urban Leases Act; it amended and completed all this reform in a crazy increase in rents, as we are seeing, in a new bubble, this time of rent, in many cities and municipalities in this country. Do you still wonder why our young people do not become independent? Why do only three out of ten children under the age of 30 become independent? Precisely because of this, because of precarious jobs, because there is no way to be independent from that bubble of rent that generated the right, and to all that is what the president of the government and the socialist government has to answer mainly. That is why today the president presented, for example, the new reform of the Leasing Act; that is why he was talking about building 20 000 public housing units for rent in areas where prices have risen more. We applaud all these initiatives, also the announcement that single or lesbian women are once again entitled to assisted reproduction, which the People's Party has denied them in the public health system, because we know that the right, the blue and the orange, is fundamentally macho and homophobic, something that we are seeing perfectly and in all its splendour in recent weeks. [[applause]] Emily Dickinson said that we women ignore our own height until we stand up. For the women of this country we decided on March 8 to stand and we will not sit again. [[Applauds]] So, gentlemen of the right, we women are not a social group that the right has to fight. Feminism has three hundred years of victories won step by step, of firm successes; we are the most transformative and influential social movement, and you say you have to fight us. We wait for you; here we wait for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] During these days of July - tomorrow - the eighty-two years of the start of the Civil War, of the coup d'état, and forty-three years will be celebrated at the end of this year of the dictator's death; too long remembering his memory and his monuments. Memory and memory must be for those who defended and paid with their lives for freedom, democracy and republican legality, ladies and gentlemen, because this party knows a lot about republican legality, republican memory and above all about death and exile. [[applause]] This is the constitutional principle of legality, which indicates that all public authorities are subject to the law, ladies and gentlemen. On this matter the right has done nothing but paralyze the Historical Memory Law these years. They did not seem to understand that it was not a question of opening wounds, but of closing them with democratic dignity. Mr President of the Government, you commented that without dialogue there is only a blockage and that the solutions come from the hand of dialogue. That's right. The relationship of the State with Catalonia and the Government with the Generalitat is one of the fundamental problems facing not this Government but Spain. That is also part of the inheritance received - of the inheritance we received from the People's Party, by the way - and some should, before affirming certain things in this rostrum, look at themselves in the mirror of the opposition made by the Socialist Party. Any public representative of the Government or the opposition, in order to be satisfied with their behaviour in the face of a problem of this gravity, should be asked whether they are part of the problem or part of the solution, whether they are part of the solution or whether they are in any way facilitating the fracture. How can we say that the policy of appeasement is a policy condemned to failure and that we must combat it? So what is the policy that we need to develop? The confrontation, gentlemen of Citizens? Is that the policy that the government of the nation has to develop? Today we have heard the Spanish right, the blue and the orange spread the suspicion once again about the institutional loyalty of the Socialist Party. I'm just going to recite to you something that was said in this rostrum two months ago. I open quotes: 'I'll tell you one thing. I think we have a shared goal and I think that staging an alleged disagreement really has no interest. And I don't think it's good to devote your energies to criticizing the government on state affairs, Mr Rivera. I think this doesn't give you a vote, this can make you lose votes and make a lot of people not take it seriously because you see that you're from 'take advantage of' on such an important topic. I ask you to behave with the same loyalty with which the Socialist Party is acting, and I do not know if I harm you with this statement.' This was said to us by the then President of the Government, Mr Rajoy. And he went on to say, 'Just behave yourself as the Socialist Party is doing on the subject of Catalonia and, frankly, we would do much better to all'. I close quotes. [[Applauds]] This is as good for Mr Rivera, again, who continues to play with the issues of state, as it is now and unfortunately for the People's Party. If we take into account, moreover, the latest demonstrations that are taking place recently on issues such as European integration, Schengen, immigration or historical memory, we will realise that it is also a sign of something much more dangerous and that I ask you to reconsider, because for a long time this country has had the misfortune of not having a right that is homologable with European democratic rights. Do not back down on this in two months what has progressed over the past forty years, gentlemen of the People's Party. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by thanking the President of the Government for his presentation of the programme he has presented today, and also for his commitment to work side by side with this Parliament and not in front of it, as we have been used to in recent years, and above all for the many measures he has taken: the fight against labour exploitation, the rise in wages, the recovery of lost rights, stolen by the right, such as universal health; the repeal of the Law on Mordality, the elimination of tax fraud and tax amnesties, the fight against inequality, the change of the productive model, active employment policies for young people, the twenty thousand rental houses to be built, the sustainability of the public pension system, the regeneration of Europe, the return to Europe and compliance with Agenda 2030, the repealing the most harmful aspects of labour reform, the continuing to believe and build a Spain full of equal opportunities and equality between men and women as a cross-cutting axis of the Government. It is normal, Mr President of the Government, that the right wing of the House does not support this government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u63	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u64	Thank you, President. It is my turn to reply in the order of speeches. I shall therefore start with Mr Hernando and the reply to the People's Parliamentary Group. First of all, I would like to reflect both on the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group and on the spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, who have more or less come to cast the same criticisms and to use the same tone, the same parliamentary style towards my intervention, towards the nature of my Government and also towards the action of my Government. I think it is very important, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about democratic regeneration, to respect the forms. It's very important in dialectics to express yourself as you want. In parliamentary dialectics one can be more abrupt, softer, more refined or less refined, but the important thing is not to lack personal respect, not to be unfair with the historical legacy of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, even with the action that I and many of those present here have deployed very recently at very critical moments in the political and democratic history of our country. Little less than saying that this government is an accomplice to terrorists seems to me to be an injustice, Mr Hernando and Mr Rivera. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile makes negative gestures]] Yeah. First for the history of the Socialist Party. We make ours the victims of the terrorism of the People's Party, all the victims that there were in Spain during the more than forty years of murders of the terrorist band ETA. What I am asking, Mr Hernando, Mr Rivera, is that you also be fair in that the political defence of your positions - which are legitimate, just like ours - is not tarnished by a victory that has taken place and been certified this year, which has been the dissolution of ETA, and that this does not divide precisely the democratic forces that we are present here. [[Applauds]] Because this party, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party - which is the main sustenance of this government -, in its political history, has not only suffered loss of human lives, of comrades who simply thought of a society in the Basque Country and in the whole of Spain other than that of others and were killed for it or had to flee the Basque Country for it, but, when it was in opposition, it has been deeply loyal to all the governments, whether they were Mariano Rajoy or José María Aznar, at very hard times in the fight against terrorism in which the Socialist Party supported the rapprochement of ETA prisoners precisely in order to defuse the situation in the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, if I may say so, yours has a greater crime, because Mr Rivera has just arrived and does not seem to have read much about the political history of Spain, about the political commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the fight against terrorism and about how it has led the state pacts against terrorism. [[applause]] Mr Hernando, you represent the People's Party, a party that, when it has ruled, has brought prisoners to the Basque Country and counted on the silence - in this case supporting them - and on the institutional loyalty that every State and Government Party, such as the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, owes to them without any reproach. Of course you can criticize and cast all your reproaches against the current government and its action, but in order to regenerate democratic life, in order to have a debate as serene and exemplary as possible for the citizens who are watching us on social networks or on television, it is best to put aside reproaches that you know - and you know, Mr Hernando - that are unfair. Precisely, the great reflection that we would have to make in this country, after the dissolution of ETA announced a few months ago - and that basically is the certificate of a failure that they already assumed in 2011, with another government other than theirs - is that they cannot see that the Democrats we share right now that democracy has defeated ETA. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I am not going to enter here - because, honestly, Mr Rivera and Mr Hernando, it seems to me that there is no greater contempt than not appreciating those words - to remember that José María Aznar approached prisoners, I am not going to remember here the use that, unfortunately, has been made by previous administrations of anti-terrorist policy. What I am going to reaffirm, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Government of Spain is going to comply with the Prison Law and that the Government of Spain considers that, once ETA has been defeated and ETA has been dissolved, those prison policies that were used at the time to think about how to defeat ETA must be reconsidered. That is what the Spanish Government is going to do. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Rivera, you're going to do it publicly, like I'm doing here, from the atrium. [[Applauds]] Here's the thing. You were talking about the bills of the new government, but the only bill this government is paying is the one you left, Mr Hernando. [[Rumors]] You tell us about public deficit and public spending. I have already said this in my first intervention, ladies and gentlemen, 3.1% of the gross public deficit is the highest in the European Union, with an average of 1% of the public deficit in relation to gross domestic product. Mr Hernando, the Government of Spain is going to approve, after a report and a meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, a new path of stability that recognizes what you know. It is recognised that the budgets that you and Mr Rivera designed are not credible, they are not going to meet the public deficit targets set by Brussels. What's the matter? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u66	You come here and say that Spain when it went to Brussels arrived without credibility. Anyway, that's all relative, Mr. Hernando. It may be in your eyes, but I can assure you that the experience I had in Brussels was not that. I will tell you one thing, Mr Hernando, what is clear is that it does not contribute to the credibility and prestige of a country to systematically breach the public deficit, as you did during the seven years that you were ruling this country. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] So let us not lie; do not lie, Mr Rivera, and do not lie, Mr Hernando. We are saying that a path of stability can be perfectly posed where not only the social and economic reality of our country can be recognized, but also the consensus of the study services and also, as the spokesman of the Basque Parliamentary Group mentioned earlier, the AIReF report itself. And of course, we are going to have a public deficit of 2.7%. So, what do we do? Are we kidding each other? Do we say that we are going to meet the public deficit of 2.3%? Or is it that you want us to meet the 2.3% deficit and therefore continue to cut the welfare state, which is what you have done when you were ruling? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We're not going to allow it. We won't allow it, ladies and gentlemen. We say: 2.7%, five tenths more; 1.9%, five tenths more, or 1.8%, five tenths more than the following year, to 2019. And with that, what we will be doing are two important things: one, to guarantee the budgetary stability of this country, the consolidation of public accounts, that Spain comes out of the corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact and that, therefore, we begin to breathe after many years under that corrective arm, and two, to guarantee social cohesion. This is the actual debate, the substantive debate. And it would be wise, Mr Hernando, that when you think, when your parliamentary group thinks - also the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, because it is so much riding - you say what your position in this House will be on the path of stability - above all you, who govern, because Citizens do not govern - and explain to your autonomous presidents that you are going to reject an injection of resources of EUR 2400 million to the autonomous communities. Because when we talk about that, we're talking about health, we're talking about education, we're talking about dependence, we're talking about all those policies that socially and territorially cohesive our country. It is paradoxical that you come here and tell us that there are investments that are not going to be fulfilled, but tell us that we will see what happens to the path of stability by the position maintained by the People's Parliamentary Group. One thing and the other is incompatible, Mr Hernando: either you bet that the autonomous communities have more economic resources - and that comes within the reasonableness of this path of growth and stability that the present government has proposed - or, logically, you are saying that the Spanish government has to do more cuts and, consequently, a further deterioration of the welfare state. And that, Mr Hernando, from an ideological and economic policy point of view is not what we want. Bills, of course. Social Security Bill, Mr Hernando What is the Social Security deficit? What is the ill-being of the Social Security Reserve Fund right now? What is the situation for retirees? And no longer that of today's retirees, because when one speaks to the retirees many times what concerns them is not so much their retirement as the retirement of tomorrow, their children, their daughters, their grandchildren and their grandchildren. What you have done has been simply to live off the credit, to ask the Treasury for credit to continue paying the country's retirees' overtime, and what we want, ladies and gentlemen, is to offer a great deal of agreement to the House so that we can reach a new Toledo Pact. [[Applauds]] That's what we want. You don't want to? Well, they'll have to explain. You will have to explain that you do not want a new agreement or a new Toledo Pact, because it is also you who have squandered the Social Security Reserve Fund, those who have questioned not only the sustainability, but the dignity of pensions with a reform, that of 2012, that what you did was break the Toledo Pact because it did not count on the agreement of the social partners. Invoice, of course, that of precarious employment. In this respect, of course we are going to put forward legislative amendments to the labour framework in this House and in this House. Our intention and interest would be to repeal all labour reform, but we must also be realistic and know that there is no parliamentary majority in this House to do so, but to retouch many of the elements that are most damaging to the labour market as a result of its reform. Here they have been raised by various parliamentary groups: Article 42, which is currently under parliamentary procedure, ultraactivity, etc. These are issues on which I believe we can find ourselves and we can begin to dismantle the most damaging effects, in the form of precariousness and wage devaluation, which has provoked precisely the labor reform that you imposed with your absolute majority in 2012. You talk about public revenue and then you come back with the argument that the socialists are very bad, that we only raise taxes and that we squander and that you are the ones who really lower taxes and help the middle and working class; in short, all the retaliatory arguments that is old politics, Mr Hernando. And Mr Rivera, you came here to say that you were going to change the policy and what you do is precisely mimic and copy the oldest speech, the most carca of the Spanish right. [[Applauds]] And then I am forced to remember obvious things; Mr Hernando and Mr Rivera compel me to do so. Let's see, Mr Hernando, the People's Group supported a government that went up the IRPF, that went up VAT, that went up taxes to the middle class and working class. And what's the result? You have raised taxes to the middle and working class, you have cut public spending on education, on dependence, on health, breaking the principle of universality of public health, deteriorating to levels, in my opinion, absolutely entrepreneurship the rate of unemployment coverage. In short, what they have done has been to raise taxes to the middle class and cut the welfare state. And what is the result of all this, ladies and gentlemen? That we have a public deficit of 3.1 per cent of gross domestic product and a public debt of 100 per cent. And you come here and you tell me that we want grandchildren and grandchildren to pay for today's public spending. But if it is you who have placed this country's public debt at 100%! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's and Citizens' Group, I would like to have a much more constructive debate, which seems to me to be much smarter, much more appropriate to what the citizens of this House expect. I would be interested to know what your opinion is on whether or not it is really worth it that this country, that this Parliament is modernising our tax system. I would like to know, Mr Rivera, Mr Hernando, whether you are prepared to have a tax on the digital services of the large corporations that do not pay taxes in this country and that, precisely because they do not pay taxes, what you do is to devalue and to a large extent damage the working conditions of many companies and of many workers, and in addition to that, what you do is not allow a collection of public revenue to support the welfare state. Ergo, what's the conclusion? If we do not do this kind of reform, if we do not modernise our welfare state and our tax system, what is going to happen, Mr Hernando, Mr Rivera, is that it will finally be again the middle working classes who have to pay for the welfare state's support. We say social justice, yes, and that means fiscal justice. [[Applauds]] That is why we are opening the debate, we are opening the debate on whether companies that exploit their workers and which today, by the way, are the subject of information in the media have to pay taxes or not in Spain. By the way, do not go too far, because you are so interested in Europe, because there is precisely a great consensus in Europe about the need to incorporate taxation on digital companies. That is therefore the debate that we want to open. You don't want to open this debate? Well, that will be your problem, but they will be outside this time and outside the European Union. By the way, Mr Hernando, to you, who has criticized this so much, I only say one thing. We have begun to read the reports and papers that the Ministry of Finance had, for example, and ask Mr Montoro what the previous Government's position was on these issues. As for the corporation tax, both Mr Hernando and Mr Rivera, both the People's Party and the citizens, who are defenders of small and medium-sized enterprises, of self-employed workers, shout in the sky and say that the socialists are already here. We are not going to touch taxes on the middle class and the working class, whether they are self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, that is true, for large conglomerates with effective rates of less than 10%, we will force them to pay at least 15%, because we do not resign ourselves to the fact that the effective rate of corporation tax is below 10% and is therefore lower than that of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] Is this, Mr. Rivera, ideology, effectiveness? I think it's both, it's ideology and it's effectiveness. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] It is effective, Mr Rivera, of course, that business conglomerates start paying the taxes they owe, and it is even ideology, Mr Rivera. The difference between you and me is that I do defend small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers, among other issues because we open up channels for greater public revenue from business conglomerates. You, Mr Rivera, I do not know what interests you defend, what people and interests you have behind your party, but I can assure you one thing, Mr Rivera, this government is going to do fiscal justice. [[Applauds]] That simple. They're telling me about Social Security. We already know what the recipe is for the Right, for Citizens and for the People's Party. Do we agree, Mr Rivera, Mr Hernando, that there is a problem with social security? Do we agree, Mr. Hernando, Mr. Rivera? Do we agree that there is a social security deficit problem? Do we agree that there is a problem of underfunding of social security? Do we agree that right now, with the characteristics of the job that is created, the number of contributors that we have does not come to cover and resolve in the medium term social security, not today's retirements but tomorrow's, the last morning's, those of you, those of whom you speak or those of our children and our daughters? Do we agree that the baby boom generation in a few years' time is going to retire and is going to pose a clear risk of social security insustainability? Do we have a problem financing our Social Security yes or no? I believe that everyone here and in the Committee on the Toledo Pact can say that yes, there is a country problem, a state problem, which we have to resolve. What's the red line? It is clear that the red line is that pensions have to be dignified, they have to be pensions that do not lose purchasing power, not 0.25% to which you chained the pensions of this country with your 2012 reform. If we have that agreement, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will have to do things, which will not only be worth creating jobs, but we will also have to be aware that if we want to raise social security contributions, as some parliamentary groups can put it, not the government, because it is precisely what we want to do that does not cost labour, we will have to start looking for different formulas. Rationalising spending is one of the measures that we are going to put in place and of course open the debate on a finalist taxation of social security. In that sense, Mr Hernando, Mr Rivera, you will say no, but we are going to create that finalist tax and we are going to link it to a sector that has been rescued with the Spanish effort of EUR 40 billion. The rescue philosophy is a philosophy that this House has to apply and that will apply this Government. [[Applauds]] I will also say one thing to Mr Rivera in particular, if you are so concerned about the impact of this type of tax linked to the support of Social Security on the customer, I simply ask you, as you are trying to look so much at Mr Macron, that you ask him how it is done in France. Ask him and you'll see that none of that has happened to what you threaten us with, tells us it's going to happen in Spain. Mr. Hernando, I'll give you two thoughts, which I could also give to Mr. Rivera. Mr. Rivera is threatening me that he's going to talk about Catalonia during the replica shift. But if you speak only of Catalonia, Mr. Rivera! Anyway, he always talks about Catalonia and always does it for bad. The question is: What alternative is there to dialogue? The confrontation? Are we still in confrontation, Mr. Hernando? Mr. Rivera, are we still in the confrontation? I believe that the reactions to the beginning of the dialogue if anything has left clear is who lives in the conflict and who we want to deconstruct that conflict. There are probably parliamentary groups who consider that the relations between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia have to be sustained in a boxing ring. That is not the case with this Government, Mr Hernando, Mr Rivera; it is not the case with this Government. Mr Hernando, you have made a reference to historical memory, and implicitly you have come to say something like that this Government is committed to looking to the past with bitterness, to opening wounds when they are already closed. Mr. Hernando, I think it's quite the opposite, what we want is to close wounds. In addition, generations that can represent yours or mine, we should look forward and peacefully towards our past. There are many people in this country, Mr Hernando - it must be acknowledged - who have open wounds. Spain, unfortunately, in global terms, is a country with many missing persons still to be found in the corners of our roads, and I believe, Mr Hernando, that it is historic justice to do everything possible to close those wounds, and the Government of Spain will help to do so. [[Applauds]] I will also tell you, Mr Hernando, that years ago the People's Party - I danced the dates, I don't know if it was in 2008 - condemned the Franco dictatorship. The other day, in a control session, I told him that I wish you would find the compass soon. Find it, Mr Hernando, and above all, orientate it towards parameters of a modern right, clean, Europeanist, cosmopolitan, open, and not towards the far right that some governments of sister parties of theirs have, such as Hungary, Austria and other countries. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví's reference has been made, and I also mentioned it in my first speech because I found it rather worrying that, no longer in the referendum on primary education - which is something else and, of course, I respect it, because there are things that one sometimes even regrets - his spokesman in the European Parliament said that Schengen should be suspended. Mr Hernando, Schengen is the vector principle, it is the nuclear principle of the European Union. Do you know what you're saying? That millions of young people in this country will not be able to move freely across the European continent? Is that the proposal that the People's Party brings to this House? [[Applauds]] I think there are much smarter ways to address issues such as those that you have raised, so we wait for you and reach out to you. It is going to be very difficult, Mr Hernando - I am very aware of this - but I hope we can understand ourselves in matters that have to do with the state. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea will allow me to respond globally to Mrs Belarra, Mrs Martín, Mr Garzón and Mr Gómez-Reino, first of all, to make a clarification, and it is that the purpose of this appearance is to explain the resolutions and conclusions of the European Council, but also to explain the government programme for me. The ministers and ministers have done so in the various committees and my intention was, in this intense month that we have had to hand over, at an unprecedented moment in Spanish democracy, to make this appearance as soon as possible. I have not focused so much on the European Council, among other things, because many of the reflections that I would have to make after the Council remain alive because they have not actually been resolved. I said publicly that we are not satisfied with the conclusions of immigration and I will tell you why. The draft conclusions that the government found nothing more to enter was a draft that you do not need to know about your development or the work of it, but I agree with you that it was very oriented and focused on a reality, which was that of German politics and that of Italian politics. It was an approach to immigration that we do not share either, where there was more talk about the reaction to that migration flow, beyond integration or, for example, about the necessary cooperation with countries of origin and transit. In that regard, I share with you that, indeed, the measures that were most highlighted in those conclusions have to do with border control, with the creation of the euphemistically called regional platforms for the management of such migratory flows in the countries of origin, in the countries of transit. Finally, all the issues you have mentioned and I do not want to go any further. If I tell you that the Government of Spain, from that point of view, was very clear - because it was not so obvious within the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that arose - that our main purpose was to maintain and preserve a Community approach to a challenge that is global and that necessarily needs a European response and not therefore unilateral, nationalist, and that we had to incorporate two important issues for our country; first, the need to recognize the importance of cooperation with African countries, which is incorporated in the Council resolution, in the conclusions; and secondly, to recognize by the European Council, the Community institutions, that pressure is now on the Western Mediterranean route and that, as a result, Spain needs solidarity resources, in addition to demanding responsibility, in order to cope with the migration challenge. These were the main objectives of the Government of Spain, to claim and strengthen the cooperative bond with the countries of origin and the transit countries, to show this solidarity, to show further the integration and development policies that are necessary on the African continent, but, logically, to recognize that Spain is suffering a pressure that has been growing for a long time and that, consequently, we needed the solidarity of all European countries. You tell me that they don't like regional platforms, and I said it in my speech before the Council that we have a lot of doubts about those regional platforms. We said that if these regional platforms are put in place, first, it will have to be with the cooperation and opinion of the countries of origin or transit where they are to be located; and second, that the rules to be managed by these regional centres or platforms must be those provided by Acnur and the International Organization for Migration. That was the approach that the Spanish Government advocated in the debate. With regard to the reception centres in Spain or on the European continent that you mentioned earlier, the Minister of the Interior believes that he has said so at parliamentary level; it is clear that we also need to create port centres where many of those pateras that are now arriving directly at the coasts of Tarifa, Almeria or the uprising and the southern Spanish. I think that is exactly the opposite of what you are trying to infer in your intervention; we want you to have the best of the attention of the Red Cross and the various NGOs when they arrive, to have effective and rapid management of those people who are fleeing horror and war and can therefore be considered as potential asylum seekers. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment and the intentionality of the position of the Government of Spain on this matter. It has been said by Mrs Martín that the IECs should be closed. I believe that the government - I said this before the European Council - wants to make its own - and it does its own - the resolution of the Congress of Deputies; we want to review the CIEs, but we need centres where we can meet, welcome and have irregular migrants arriving at our shores. I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to keep it. That we need to improve their management and ensure respect for human rights in the CIEs? Of course, there we are going to find ourselves and we make our own the position of this Parliament, but I think it is important not to deceive citizens either, it is important to be aware that we need spaces where we can locate irregular migrants, those who are not asylum-seekers. That is the position of the Government of Spain. We are empathetic, we are sensitive to these issues that have brought many NGOs to us, but we also believe that we need these centres in order to be able to manage migratory flows as smoothly and intelligently as possible. You may not be aware of it, but just a few days ago the Italian Government did what it did again was to reject irregular migrants who were on a boat and who did not allow them to dock in Italy. When it is said that the Government of Spain is not sensitive to the harsh, harsh reality that many migrants have in the Mediterranean... I believe that we can be very critical of this Government, but this is not because, among other things, two days ago we reached an agreement between the French Government, the Portuguese Government and the Government of Spain to take care of various migrants who are now on the sidelines in the Mediterranean as a result of the closure of the Italian Government's borders, provided that they also take care of a part of those migrants who are on the ship. I believe that this is a matter of justice; firstly, because we are addressing, from a European point of view, a problem such as migration; and secondly, what the Spanish Government is demonstrating is that it is solidarity not only with the migrants who come to us to the coast of the south and the rising, but it is also solidarity with those migratory realities which are leaving Libya and which unfortunately are finding rejection of the closure of this case by the Italian Government. I believe that we can be criticized for many things, I am also prepared to learn from the mistakes, to recognize those mistakes, but on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government cannot be criticized for that. All we have to do is listen to Mr Rivera and Mr Hernando about the immigration policy of this country, which is completely different from what you blame us for. You talk about the stability path. You are a conglomerate of parties that rule in different cities and you have also made reference to some of those cities and described them as host cities. There are many cities and autonomous host communities. By the way, if I may return for a moment to migration, the Spanish Government has taken two decisions which I believe are very important. Firstly, in everything that concerns the Minas, the migration policy and the need to coordinate and cooperate, to which I referred earlier, we have re-established the Delegated Committee on Migration, which was closed and has not met for many years in this country. Secondly, we will convene the Sectoral Conference on Migration so that it is precisely the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities that we have an all-encompassing approach to a reality that affects all territories and all municipalities. I turn to the question of budgetary stability and return to the question of the path of stability that I announced in my speech. You say it's insufficient and it's not what you expected. I am not going to look at Tsipras - by the way, you have to see what has changed Tsipras, I just encourage you to talk to him -, an absolutely social-democratic approach to what the European Union is and what the proper management of public resources has to be, but you go to Madrid City Hall. In the City of Madrid, the mayor has done what she has done is to assume a stability programme necessary to square some accounts that, by the way, she was not responsible for that mismatch, for that indebtedness and for that public deficit and instead set up a stability programme, budgets based on that stability programme which, look where, who has supported it has been the socialist municipal group. Therefore, the debate and probably the challenge that we have of the left is to be aware and transfer to the Spanish citizen what has been transferred to Madrid and is that we are able to combine perfectly, unlike what the right, budgetary stability and sanitation of public accounts with the consolidation of the welfare state. That we would like that reality to be much faster and that we could do many more things in less time? Of course I do. That's where we can meet. But the intermediate point, ladies and gentlemen, is what I ask you to take into account because we are going to need the support of your group in order to be able to carry out important measures that will require budgetary support and I hope to be able to count on your help. We reach out to them. The gesture we're making is important. Please note that of the five tenths of the government deficit that has been earned, 1 per cent will be for the General Government of the State, 2 per cent for the Autonomous Communities and another 2 per cent for Social Security. We are therefore clearly focusing on the objectives, needs and resignations of this Government. It is the autonomous communities, it is the territorial and local administrations and it is also the Social Security, and that is where we are going to focus at least the proposal for a path of stability. Mrs Martín asked me about the refugees and the failure to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling. What we want is to meet the breaches of the previous Administration. We have encountered huge amounts of asylum applications and, logically, we want to deal with many of them, as it cannot be otherwise. There was another debate - I could not talk about it at the press conference after the summit - on the defence budget. I do not find anything if I say that at the last NATO Summit the proposal brought by the US President was not to reach the agreement reached in 2014 at a summit in Wales to place us close to 2% of the gross domestic product in defence. The U.S. Administration initially proposed to reach 4% by the year 2024. The debate - I have said it publicly and I repeat it in this House -, being empathetic and understanding with a country that is primarily contributing to NATO's support, on how budgetary contributions to the joint defence of all the allies are measured is, in my view, unfair to put it only in financial terms. It is true that we have a budget of less than 1% of the gross domestic product in defence, of 0.93%, but it is also, ladies and gentlemen, on two other issues that have to do with the capabilities and contributions, that is, the external presence in international missions of Spain in the Baltic countries, in Latvia, to guarantee and assure populations that are feeling right now, believe me - I witnessed it when they explained it - the very important and worrying presence of Russian troops on their borders; the presence of the Spanish Army in Turkey, defending populations that are on the border with Syria, which are right now around two million people insured by that Spanish military presence there; the commitment that Spain has to lead the anti-terrorist formation in a country whose images we all remember, terrible, of brutal attacks by jihadists in Tunisia. Our commitment to be there as part of the fight against terrorism and to deal with hybrid wars and destabilisations that are being made by certain groups through social networks, fake news, all the issues that have to do with new technologies, ladies and gentlemen, demands that we rethink our contribution, not that of Spain, but that of the whole of the European Union, of the European countries within the Atlantic Alliance. What did the Government of Spain defend? That we have to move towards a progressive increase in the defence budget because what we want is to ensure security and peace and not on another issue. We want to ensure peace and security, and peace and security are guaranteed not only at our borders, but also in the Baltic, Latvia, Turkey, Libya, Tunisia, or other allies in other parts of the Alliance. What do I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen? That we're going to have to think about it. The United States wants to step back in investment in contributing to NATO, so what the allies, especially the European Union, will have to do will be to rethink what our contributions are and how we measure them. I, who am a deeply leftist, progressive person, like you, can assure you that it is also leftist to guarantee security and to ensure peace in the world, and that requires an Atlantic Alliance that we hope will be preserved in time - that is what we want - and a common foreign and security policy, which is what I at least defended at that NATO Summit. With this, if we leave the great headline that the socialists who want to raise the budget in defense because they bend to Trump's interests, and we really go to the substance of the matter, being aware that there are threats that have to do with international terrorism, mainly jihadist, with cybersecurity, with countries close to the European Union that are right now questioning even the territorial sovereignty of some countries such as Ukraine or Georgia, we will have to be aware that we have to make a higher contribution. Does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to place ourselves in the parameters that the Trump Administration was telling us? No, no, That means, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to make a reasonable approach to what economic contributions we have to make, what our capabilities are, what our contributions to those international missions are. We may not understand ourselves here, that we cannot share a path with some left-wing parliamentary groups, but I hope that other parliamentary forces that have been at the forefront of these responsibilities will be empathetic with this issue. With regard to the points made by Mr Garzón and other Members of the Group of the European United Left, I would like to tell you that Parliament has set up its committees, such as the Committee on Reserved Costs and the Committee on Official Secrets. What we have said is that we will see what are the information, the clarifications, that the Director General of the National Center of Intelligence, the CNI, is going to do, and from there, we will act. Let us hold the debate - the House itself is acknowledging that this kind of debate has to be conducted. - and then let us see exactly what the procedure is. This is the approach taken by the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no idea who amnesties are. I give you my word; no idea. You, Mr. Rivera, seem to have data on who has been amnestyed. Get out here and say it, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Say it. I can assure you I have no idea. What I'm not going to do is prevaricate. [[Rumors]] I will not prevail, ladies and gentlemen. You, Mr Hernando, supported a government that passed a tax amnesty law in which one of your articles said that the confidentiality of those who take up that tax amnesty will be guaranteed, so, lessons from you, Mr Hernando, the just. [[Applauds]] I insist that what we are proposing is an amendment to the law, a new law that prohibits new tax amnesties. We cannot act on a past already condemned, ladies and gentlemen, but we can act on the present and the future, which is what this government is going to do. That is the Government's approach to the debate to be held in the former Committee on Official Secrets, and from there we will see what action is being taken. Mr Gómez-Reino says that we have to build and get started to guarantee decent pensions, equality, and also talks about precarious work. The rest of Unidos-Podemos spoke of the path of stability, of taxation, of taxation, of housing, of rents. The important thing will be to know what the position of United-We can when we bring those laws and budgets. We have said that we are going to amend the Urban Rentals Act, that we are going to put a stop to the real estate bubble regarding the rent as a result, precisely, of the tourist apartments. We have said that we are going to push in four years an indefinite park of public housing for rent, and the important thing will be to know what is the position of each and every group that makes up Unidos-Podemos. Of course, we're holding hands. Mr Rivera, I give you the reflection I have previously given Mr Hernando on the respect we owe ourselves. I am sure you have more dialectic facilities; even as a young man, as I recalled in some video, you won some debate competition without having to insult, without having to disqualify the Presidency of the Government or the Council of Ministers. In short, I'm sure you're smart and you'll find much more sophisticated elements of criticism than saying that the Socialist Party is ugly, bad, collaborators and terrorists. I am convinced, Mr Rivera, that you can give much more of yourself in the parliamentary debate. His Lordship has made an affirmation with a profound ideological substance, he has said that modern politics must be made. I agree that modern politics must be made. When you speak, for example, of the ballot box or of the lack of legitimacy of this Government, which has been constituted from article 113 of the Spanish Constitution, all I ask you, Mr Rivera, is that you read the Constitution before you speak. This Government is perfectly legitimate, among other things, because it had the majority support of this House. [[Applauds]] And, Mr. Rivera, when we talk about ballot boxes, what do you do with the results of the ballot boxes? What do you do, for example, in Catalonia? You are the first parliamentary force in Catalonia, and, what you have done, what you do. Nothing, nothing, simply blame the majority independenceist bloc in the Catalonian Parliament and come here here too to reproach, in this case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That's all you know how to do: reproach, reproach and reproach. You live well from the conflict, but, Mr. Rivera, that story is over. In this House there is a government that does not live on territorial aggravation, as you do. [[Applauds]] You bet on the division and we, Mr Rivera, on the sum; that is the difference between you and us. We talk about modernization and transformation and then Mr Rivera comes and tells us again about the issue of diesel. Mr Rivera tells us that he agrees that the ecological transition must be made, that he agrees that we must fight climate change, but that we must not impose taxes that discourage the use, for example, of deep-polluting fuels, which are doing, for example, all the countries of Europe, Mr Rivera: those of the Socialist Party and some of the liberal parties and also of the brotherly party of the People's Party. With this, what we are doing are deeply European tax proposals in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and many different-coloured governments in the European Union. On the education agreement, I have proposed here an education agreement. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: He's been broken]] Mr Rivera, he says nothing beyond the agreement on education and that we bipartisanism are very bad. Well, here we are all, Mr. Rivera. What do you do for building that educational pact? Absolutely nothing, Mr. Rivera. What you have done has been to approve budgets that you were doing is to cut investment in public education and walk backwards like crabs. [[Applauds]] He talks about vocational training. What's your proposal? Nor do you agree with the subject of civic and constitutional values? Well, we're starting to agree, Mr. Rivera. Let us all agree and do something, among other things, to end up repealing the Lomce, which was unilaterally approved by the previous Government with an absolute majority in the 2011-2015 Legislature. He says that Mr Sánchez has made a speech of the past, not of the future, and that a speech of the future is to speak of job insecurity. I understand that mine has been a long speech, but I also think you have attended to it, because I have spoken of job insecurity. I said that we are going to present a master plan to combat labour exploitation and precariousness. I would like to know your position on the temporary contract, on ultraactivity, on article 42 of the labour framework approved by the previous Government. In short, I would like to know what your position is and not that it stays only on the surface. Get down to earth and tell us what approaches you have at each and every one of these points. On taxation, I told you in a control session, Mr Rivera, that there are many differences between you and me, and look, we started by agreeing a long time ago, almost already in prehistory. You have missed an extraordinary opportunity to be at the centre of truth. You are becoming more and more like the far right of Europe, not the centre that proclaims necessary in our country. Then he tells us that we have to move from the reds and the blues and situate ourselves, perhaps, in the orange that you defend and that, therefore, we have to talk about taxes. You say that you do not have to pass taxes on large digital corporations, that you do not have to pass taxes on banks so that they can finance or sustain Social Security, that you do not have to set up a corporate tax so that business conglomerates have an effective rate more or less similar to that of small and medium-sized enterprises; neither does that apply to them, nor does it apply to environmental taxation. Now, yes, what is Mr Rivera's and Citizens' proposal on taxation? I say this to you: super-reduced VAT for essential products; it must be raised as the general VAT drops, for example, from luxury goods. Of course, as far as corporation tax is concerned, Mr Rivera and Citizens are proposing a 20% rate for small and medium-sized enterprises and also for large corporations. That's what you say you want. Mr Rivera, we are more modest: we propose 15%. If you are proposing 20% and we are proposing 15%, I ask you to approve and support that 15%. [[Applauds]] They support 15%, Mr Rivera, but do not stop supporting me because they consider that I raise taxes very little on large companies in relation to your initial proposal. What you can't tell me is that you're defending to raise the type of companies to 20% and that I'm the one who's raising taxes to big corporations and businesses. Mr Rivera, perhaps you should read your electoral programme more carefully because you will not make these mistakes, which you have been accustomed to for a long time. With regard to the Electoral Law, I have never said that we do not want to reform it. The agreement I had with you was to reform the Electoral Law, but it is clear that we will have to reform it among all, because what is not of a democratic regime is that it is going to put a minimum of 3%. That is not democratic, that is improper of democratic regimes, Mr Rivera, because what cannot be done is to silence the voice and vote of many citizens in our country, especially in our country. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, it seems to me more clearly to be Mr Casado's proposal. Since you are, at least propose the illegalization of all that party that does not think like you and so you remain alone in this democracy, but that is not what the Government or the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants, and I do not think that the majority of the citizens want either. Where can we meet? We can find ourselves in the amendment that I proposed at the beginning of my speech, which is that of the requested vote; there is a large majority in the House as a whole to amend that legislation. I am grateful not for everything, but for many of the issues raised by Mr Tardà in relation to the need to articulate left-wing policies, to turn the Government's action to the left and, in this regard, it has my commitment; indeed, the agenda which they have put forward, which each and every one of the ministers and ministers in the committees and which I have also done today in this House, has much to do with a progressive social-democratic conception of society, of reconstruction, of protection and of the recovery of many of the rights and freedoms lost in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of dependence, in the field of vocational training, in the field of the recovery of labour rights and, of course, also in the field of freedoms with the repeal of the law on the jaws, as well as in labour reforms, Mr Tardà. It is clear that right now, today, there is no majority in this House to be able to completely repeal the labour reform proposed by the previous Government, but there is a parliamentary majority to start dismantling much of those articles that have introduced precariousness, inequality and wage devaluation. I am thinking, for example, of everything that has to do with collective bargaining, to which the spokesman for the Basque Group has referred. Let's walk around. Even the social partners themselves are telling us to walk around, on the question of Article 42, precisely for subcontracts; to walk in ultra-activity, also in everything that has to do with the prevalence of sectoral agreements on company agreements; to walk towards that income pact that the unions and employers have obviously signed and that we applaud. That is where, Mr Tardà, I think we will be able to meet, because they are left-wing policies; in short, in all that you have commented on earlier in connection with pensions, with their revaluation, with health expenditure and, of course, with all the policies to which you referred in your speech. I hope that there will be different lefts that share the same vision of social justice and the cohesion of our societies. You've made reference to historical memory. This Government has created a specific general direction on historical memory. That is not for makeup, that is for articulating and to materialize to a large extent many of the policies to which you have referred in your intervention. We submitted when we were in the opposition an amendment to the Historical Memory Act that was vetoed by the previous government along with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. We've lifted that veto. I think it's a good touchstone for us to start modifying some of the issues of the Historical Memory Act. We are also going to deal with the application and materialization of many of the things referred to earlier by Mr Esteban of the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party. We intend to push it to a great extent during this time as we are at the head of the Government. He speaks logically of the question, tells us that we have to be bold, that we have to have a long vision of how to solve the political crisis in Catalonia. We are prepared to do so, Mr Tardà. We are ready to explore with you, together with the other parliamentary groups in the Catalan Parliament, a solution to this crisis. We are very aware right now, Mr Tardà - in this I think we are not wrong and we are not fooling anyone - that there are huge differences, that there is a huge gap between your group, the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group in terms of resolving the crisis in Catalonia. But what I can say to you, Mr Tardà, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is that the important thing is not to see what we give up, but to see how we are prepared to reach agreements for the good of Catalan citizens and of Spanish society as a whole. You shall put the matter to the vote. I also said this in the motion of censure, I am convinced that Catalonia, after the ruling of the Constitutional Court, has a status of autonomy that it did not vote. Consequently, the crisis in Catalonia will only be able to be resolved by voting, but, Mr Tardà, the fundamental discrepancy we have is that what we want to vote on is an agreement and you, in our opinion - that has been heard on many occasions - what you intend to vote on is a break. In this regard, the reflection I would make to you is that if you make any proposals, also take into account that in the Catalan Parliament, for things such as the amendment of the Statute of Autonomy in Catalonia or the adoption of an electoral law in Catalonia, you need, I think, three fifths of that Parliament. That today you do not have to exercise that right to self-determination. Beyond the constitutional issues, beyond issues of a political nature, which of course we have also underlined in our discussions with you and with President Torra, to whom I have told you, it is clear that Catalan society is deeply divided in relation to this matter. I therefore believe that it is also fair to say that we are prepared to explore political solutions for Catalonia, that we are going to be brave, that we are going to be bold, but that we are of course going to do so within the framework of the Constitution, which is the great consensus that unites us all, the whole of Catalan society and the whole of Spanish society. We are very aware that this is going to take time, that this is a long-term race and that there are many disagreements. Therefore, what we have to do is start building meetings. That is why the activation of the bilateral commissions, the hand you have raised on social cohesion issues, on progressive policies, I think it is a good starting point and I thank you for that. Mr Esteban - it is true that I have practically answered many of your questions - has worried us that there is an ultra-right which is currently governing many of the Eastern European countries that are questioning Schengen. It is clear that we will probably have to go to a Schengen reform because of the migration issue that we have within us through secondary displacements, but it is also clear that we need the other reform, which is that of the common European asylum system. I already had the opportunity to talk to the lehendakari about the migration issue. We are very conscious, and we have also dealt with it in the interministerial commission of the MENA, which has pressure within the Basque Country. In that regard, I believe that we could walk together and find solutions that are appropriate to their interests. I am very grateful to you for the reminder you made to the AIReF's pronouncement on the path of stability and also for the extended hand it offers us in relation to the specific changes we can make to the work regulation on the path marked by the social agents. With regard to the rapprochement of prisoners, I think I have been quite clear. I deserve the criticism of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, but, of course, with the utmost respect for the victims and the memory of the victims, the Government of Spain is determined to contribute to normalising it in the sense you mentioned earlier. With regard to the dialogue and renewal of the Statute of Gernika, the approach being taken by the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the vision that the Government of Euskadi has taken, I am not going to say that it reassures me but that I am comfortable with it. That is to say, the approach that they are transversal agreements that require the renewal of the Statute of Gernika, the approach that it is not the agreement of one party forgetting the other, but that it is transcendent and that it overcomes this dynamic of blocs, is the best contribution that the various parties present in the Parliament of Euskadi can make to the renewal of the Statute of Gernika, which must be remembered that it is the only statute that has not been renewed in these decades in our country. Therefore, we must learn from the lessons of the past. When this plurality has been built and recognized in the Basque Country between nationalists and socialists, it has gone frankly well to the Basque Country and, consequently, also to the whole country. Mr Campuzano, more or less I have already answered many of the questions you have commented on in replying to Mr Tardà. Indeed, I believe that boldness and courage are needed, but all of them, not just the Spanish Government and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It is important that we all speak clearly to our citizens and know exactly what we can and cannot do. We can talk about everything, but everything is not possible. In that sense, when we dialogue and when we listen, we can find many points in common. Of course, I am grateful and very much grateful for your appreciation of the activation of these bilateral commissions. There is a tremendous field to explore there, there are resources of unconstitutionality that is already being reviewed by the Spanish Government, the Minister of Territorial Policy; there are issues that have to do with economy and finance, which were already the subject of the meeting that the Vice President held with the Vice President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and there are issues that have to do with the Mediterranean Corridor, which are fundamental to the Generalitat de Catalunya. From there, I think we can start building something that we still lack, you and us - and when I say that I am talking not only about the Spanish Government, but about the whole of a large part of the political forces at the national level - and it is trust and loyalty. In this context, I believe that we can do so within the framework of Parliament and within those bilateral committees; committees which, by the way, are contained in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which we recognise and of course we are going to activate. He has talked about fiscal policy, we agree; about the necessary fiscal justice, we agree, and that we have to update the tax system to the 21st century, we agree. There is a broad field here that I have expressed in my first speech and also in the reply to other parliamentary groups. Of course, we are left with the request that you and other parliamentary groups have made to the expenditure rule of the municipalities. In relation to self-employed workers you are right, it is important to reflect on them. The Minister of Labour has already made some contributions to the debate and, above all, announcements for this important collective. I'll just tell you two that I think are fundamental. Firstly, one in which I had the honour to participate when I was a standing Member in this House and which is the termination benefit for self-employed workers. The conditions for self-employed workers to receive this unemployment benefit are very high, so I think we need to review it. Secondly, together with the main self-employed associations, we have set up a working group precisely to ensure that social security contributions are in line once and for all with the real incomes of self-employed workers. That is the commitment, attitude and spirit with which we are going to address the issues of self-employed workers; and also, of course, with the Master Plan to combat labour exploitation, to put an end to false self-employment. Mr Baldoví did not have to know, but I am meeting this Friday in Castellón, informally, with the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puig. The point is that we are holding meetings with the autonomous presidents in order of the age of approval of the statutes of autonomy, we are following that order so that there are no sensibilities; I would of course like to be able to meet earlier with the president of the Generalitat, but in any case I will do so informally this Friday in Castellón. I share with you the criticism you have made of the Schengen People's Party's questioning. I believe that that is indeed going against the meaning of history and against the interests of our country, but in the end, we are in this. In relation to the courage you have said, I tax the big corporations, I subscribe to it; historical memory and Franco, I subscribe to it; gag, I subscribe to it; pensions, I subscribe to it. In short, I believe that there are a lot of issues that we can agree on. You have commented on the question of autonomous financing. It seemed to him insufficient - at least that is what I understand - the horizon of the path of stability that we have set for the autonomous communities. Finally, I think it is quite generous two tenths in the context in which we are, and above all with the need to clean up our public accounts and reduce the public deficit. In any case, I will tell you that you know that the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs has already authorised the procedure for the autonomous communities to start to enter the financial markets progressively, and in the case of those whose volume or structure of indebtedness does not at this time advise such a exit to the markets, as is the case with the Valencian Community, what we are going to do is to start a restructuring process that allows us to accommodate the maturity of the debt profile of the autonomous communities. This is an issue that will be addressed by the Minister of Finance at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council next Thursday. Therefore, the commitment we have with Valencia is firm, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví, without any doubt. But of course, as you said at a monitoring session in which you reproached me that we were not going to seriously update and renew the autonomous financing system, I will tell you that this work is going to continue, that we do not reject the possibility of renewing that autonomous financing system in the medium term but that, in the meantime, what we have to do is to address the financial emergencies of the autonomous communities, very different depending on which region we are talking about, and that in the case of the Valencian Community it is clear that it has a lot to do with indebtedness. Bildu's spokesperson has referred to self-determination, to issues that are the hallmark of the house; I say this in colloquial terms and without any kind of reproach or pejorative sense. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u67	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u68	I'll tell you two things. With regard to Spanish Radio and Television, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, approved, at the request of the leadership of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with the parliamentary support of the majority of this House, a proposal for a law which was precisely what it was doing to change the form of renewal of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television. For the sake of that consensus, we not only made a distribution that, let's say, reflected the plural representation of this House on the board of directors, but we also said that we recognized the need to incorporate the public competition to renew the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television. We put a small safeguard clause in the interests of that consensus which said that if we didn't get to that renewal by public tender - because it was the first time in the history of our democracy that it was going to come into operation - obviously before 31 December 2017 what we had to do was to renew it by the old mechanism. We then arrived on 31 December 2017 and for the sake of consensus the Socialist Parliamentary Group extended the election of those members of the board of directors on the basis of the competition. What's happened since then? What has happened, ladies and gentlemen, is very evident that there has been a parliamentary obstructionism uniquely of the People's Parliamentary Group with the acquiescence of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group precisely in order not to renew and perpetuate the status quo. The dilemma that had to arise and that the Government had on the table when the mandate of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television expired was very simple: did we allow the political blockade and the business blockade to be installed in the public corporation or did we put in place a real decree that precisely what it did was to respond to that risk of political and business vacuum in the direction of this public corporation and to urge this House by a means of a decree to speed up the procedures for the renewal of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television? In other words, did we leave the renewal of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television with a political blockade but with a corporate blockade that was affecting the sustainability of the public body, or did we take letters on the matter and assume our responsibility? But, ladies and gentlemen, this responsibility is shared, it is the responsibility of the Government to propose solutions, but it is also the responsibility of Parliament to channel these solutions. The royal decree is provisional, the royal decree is simply to cover a void that unfortunately was willing to perpetuate sine die the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe - and this is the approach I am making to the House - that with the royal decree we have speeded up the procedures for the renewal of the Spanish Radio and Television Board by means of competition, and in the meantime the only thing I ask of this House is to support the last step in this royal decree as long as the governing board is not renewed by this House. As I said at the beginning of my speech, of course we, ladies and gentlemen, are grateful - I say this publicly - to all those parliamentary groups that have supported this royal decree, which I believe is important for the workers and, above all, to ensure an essential public service such as information. [[Applauds]] Mr. Alli, you tell me that I have to express publicly whether I recognize the Fueros of Navarre. Anyway, doubt offends. Of course, if I enter the game it is little less than recognizing that precisely what I have done has been not recognizing them; therefore, I will not enter that game, Mr Alli. I certainly believe that the doubt offends and that the position of the Socialist Party of Navarre is quite clear, as is the position of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. In this sense, they know in a meridian and perimeter way what is logically the conception we have of Navarra; here are the public statements of the secretary general of Navarra, of the Socialist Party and my own. But look at the perverseness of your argument - if I may say so - you say that you would be willing to support the reconstruction of the National Unit System, the health system, the repeal of some of the articles that are now the most damaging to the precarious work of our workers if I win an election and, therefore, what I have to do is call an election. Finally, I believe that there is no time to lose, that this constitutional mechanism which is provided for and recognized in the Constitution in its article 113, the motion of censure, which has to be constructive and gives rise to a government, is perfectly legitimate, Mr Alli. The Government will call elections, as it cannot be otherwise, when it considers it appropriate and in the interest of the general interest, but of course the important thing, Mr Alli, is in the meantime to respond to the urgent needs of the whole citizenry. The representative of Forum Asturias gives me two reflections on infrastructure and coal. I want to convey a message of confidence, calmness to the mining basins, to the Asturian society and, of course, a certain commitment that the energy transition that has to take place in our country clearly also needs that social justice look. In this regard, as I said in my first speech, the Climate Change Act is going to give an integral and integrated response to all these difficult, very complex realities and, of course, we are going to guarantee that just transition. Mrs Oramas, representative of the Canary Coalition, I draw attention to my duties in relation to Brexit. I am grateful for the recognition he has given of the Government's action on issues related to the transport bonus for 75% of the citizens of the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and Ceuta and Melilla. There are a lot of sectoral issues that have to do with the road agreement, the employment plan and so on, and I am convinced that ministers and ministers will be able to answer it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I began my first speech by saying that the purpose of this government is essentially to set the clock of politics at the time of Spain, and I believe that this is the main task before us: to accompany Spanish society in a process of democratic regeneration which was opened up from the motion of censure and which must be cultivated and consolidated by the parliamentary groups. These are the agreements, agreements on four fundamental axes: economic and employment; equality and social cohesion; democratic regeneration; and territorial cohesion and, of course, European integration. This Government will be in that endeavour. I thank everyone for the tone of this debate. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u69	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. I remind your ladies and gentlemen that at five minutes they will no longer have a microphone. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u70	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u72	Mr Sánchez, in relation to ETA I would ask you more caution and above all not to lie. I have not accused you of complicity with terrorists, what I have asked you is whether you are going to transfer to Basque prisons those terrorists who have not asked for forgiveness, who do not cooperate with justice and who have not repented. That's what I asked you. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: No, he didn't ask me that.]] What I asked you is whether you are going to transfer, as requested by the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, the prison powers to the Basque Government. And, thirdly, what I have asked you is whether you are going to allow this policy to improve the degree treatments of those terrorists who serve their sentences. This is what you have to answer to, this is what you did not want to answer after an hour and a half going round and round about this matter. Mr Sánchez, you cannot give any lessons in the fight against tax fraud. It is not that Mr Borrell when he was minister already applied two amnesties, no, it is that with you in 2011 you raised 8 billion euros in the fight against tax fraud. Do you know how many are raised now? Well, 15,000 last year, 15,000. Do you know how much the big Spanish companies paid with you in the government until 2011? 3%. Do you know how much they pay now? Ten percent. [[Applauds]] And now what we are telling you is simply that when you want to transfer or when you talk about raising taxes to certain companies, what you need to have clear - in the face of Mrs Valerio's goodness - is that if you raise taxes to banks, banks will transfer taxes through commissions to users. And those are the SMEs, the self-employed and the pensioners, Mr. Sánchez! This is what I am telling you, that with more taxes, with more deficits, no jobs are generated. It's been proven in the last seven years. It was precisely the opposite policy, the policy of reducing public spending and not increasing the deficit that created 2,700,000 jobs. This is what I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] You have created 3,800,000 unemployed and that is what has put the accounts in deficit, and that is what has put pensions at risk, and that is what has brought about the ruin of Spain. The key is employment! Don't you find out? You've made us come here eight times to talk about Spanish Television but you've come here to talk about employment. Today nothing has been said about the employment of the Spaniards and this is the main problem of the Spaniards! [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yeah, I know you guys don't like being told the truth. I know. I have been kicked twice before, a show of improper respect by this House but proper to its parliamentary group. I am not going to insult you; I am not going to say homophone, nor sexist, nor corrupt, nor these things that you say every time you come out to the rostrum. What I'm going to ask you, Your Honor, is whether you have any responsibility for the corruption cases of your party that we are experiencing these last few days, about the financing in Valencia, about the fact that a deputy president of your party in Valencia has to resign, about the fact that in Andalusia the money of the unemployed is spent on puticlubs. Does that seem to you right or does it not deserve any answer or responsibility? [[Applauds]] This is what I ask you; I ask you not to apply two measuring rods and that the same thing that seeks the responsibilities of others, that you have sought here on matters that happened in 2003, give explanations of what is happening now; by the way, also in Asturias with the defendants of the Musel, Mrs Lastra. Mr. Sánchez, you're the one who said, "There are no two legalities here, there's only one, and it's the one emanating from the Constitution and the Statute. Mr Torra is the Spanish Le Pen, the embodiment in Spain of the ultra-right and xenophobic policies that have rooted in the countries of our environment in recent years. Mr Torra's tweets, statements and reflections scandal European public opinion; he is convulsing after knowing that xenophobia has taken over and taken over the reins of the Generalitat in Catalonia. I'm closing the date. It's your date. And you, when you went to Europe, how could you explain to all those to whom you warned of this, to all your colleagues at the European Council, that you are now sitting on that blue chair precisely with the votes of all these to whom you have called xenophobes, homophobes and everything? [[Applauds]] This is what I ask you to explain, because you said nothing today. I will not remember the words of Mr.Abalos when he said: With these we are not going anywhere, with these nor a motion of censure. You lied, you cheated, and the problem your party has and the problem your group has is that you have had to be carried away by the ambition of your power, Mr Sánchez, who is a person is willing to anything by sitting there today, that is the problem that you, your parliamentary group and your party have. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u73	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u74	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Sánchez, I think there are few things I regret more than your refusal to accept Pablo Iglesias' invitation to come together by surprise to a foreign internment centre in our country. And why? Because I don't know what the confusion is about, but you are systematically confusing reception centres with detention centres for foreigners. The detention centres for foreigners are centres where people are locked up for migrating, where people are deprived of their liberty to expel them, and that is not the welcome that a democratic and human rights-abiding country wants to give to people who are fleeing horror and war. So I invite you to accept that invitation and go with Pablo Iglesias to visit a CIE. [[Applauds]] Moreover, I ask you not to buy the speech to the extreme right - I have already told you before - and not to talk about migratory pressure in our country, because you know as well as I do that only 3% of people who come to our country do it across the southern border. And don't tell me that Libya is a transit country with which to collaborate because Libya is a failed State and what is there are slave markets, tortures and murders of migrants. I was talking to you about the deficit target and you were answering me out of the tangent. On the objective of the deficit, what I was basically telling you is that you have to go to Europe to negotiate, not to settle. And I say that you have come to Europe to settle precisely because the deficit target that you have agreed with Europe leaves us with a much lower budget oxygen than we could have negotiated. It leaves 45 billion budget oxygen that we could have devoted to such important things as updating pensions to the CPI because it's more than twice as much as it costs. We are no longer, Mr Sánchez, in the Europe of 2012; we are in the Europe of Brexit and in the Europe of Salvini, and I believe that the European Commission is much more interested than a Social Democratic Government like this is in good shape than the fact that Mr Salvini is doing well. You have made a mini-debate of the State of the Nation and it would be very difficult to answer all the issues in the few minutes that I have left, but there is a fundamental question that you have to answer and this House has to answer: how can we trust that you will comply with everything you have promised here today, how to know that after a few months you will not tell us that you could not do what you promised you were going to do. And the best way to prove that you are going to keep your word is to keep your word from yesterday, and your word from yesterday is your word from 2015. I will read it literally: There will only be political regeneration in this country when we know the names and surnames of all the people who have hosted the tax amnesty. April 2015. You called him the list of shame and said to Mr. Rajoy: If you don't, we'll do it when we get to the government. They're all literal dates. So I'm asking you to keep your word from yesterday so we can trust you to keep your word from today. I ask you to rectify and publish the list of defrauders of the unconstitutional fiscal amnesty of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I also ask you to support the commission of inquiry into the apparently irregular activities of King Emeritus Juan Carlos I, because we want to know if he actually collected black money, if he evaded taxes and if he shared with you the Gürtel plot. Why? Not that we want to know it ourselves in a Committee of Official Secrets here in Congress, we want the Spanish to know it, who are the ones who have to know it; we are their representatives and we have an obligation to know it. I do not think that there can be any institution in democracy that is not subject to the control of citizenship and the control of justice. That cannot be allowed by a democratic country, Mr Sánchez. We don't want to hear more 'I'm sorry, it won't happen again' and we don't want the condemned people in this country to be the one who says that the Bourbons are thieves and not the real thieves. [[Applauds]] I told him that the majority must be built and I believe that no one like us has worked to carry out the motion of censure and no one like Pablo Iglesias has been able to carry out that motion and to collaborate in the construction of those majorities, but there are majorities, Mr Sánchez, that are already built. I remember Mr Simancas in 2016 defending very strongly in this rostrum the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, so I don't know why they won't repeal it from now on because that motion was passed and that majority to repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party already exists. So I encourage you to build majorities, not sit there waiting and saying you can't. In the end, you have to choose, Mr Sánchez: you can choose a government of gestures and cosmetic measures that does not change anything or you can choose to make a government that is up to Spain's level of the motion of censure, which is up to Spain's level of 15-M, of 8 March, of the tides of pensioners. In that Government, in those majorities that have to be built, there is no doubt that it will count not only on our support but also on our active cooperation, as we have already done with the Aquarius or Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, you've made me two replicas, you have free time, but I have five minutes to answer your two replicas to Citizens. [[Rumors]] I'll try to do it briefly, and if they leave me, better. Mr Sánchez, I am going to read you a few words from a ruling of the National Court which refer precisely to how it is a power of the Government, it is the discretion of the Government and not an obligation to be able to transfer prisoners from ETA to the Basque Country. This ruling of the 2015 National Court refers to the defence argument and at a certain point, when it refers to the contrary argument, it says: But this general rule - that is, that of trying to bring prisoners closer to their area or domicile - is often limited by various circumstances, including - listen - respect due to the dignity of the victims, which would be broken if their victims resided in nearby institutions. I agree with this sentence, but you don't anymore. Do you know whose sentence this is? Mr Marlaska, Minister of the Interior. [[Applauds]] As Mr Marlaska rightly argues, there is no obligation, it is the power of the Government. Now, if you have decided to change the constitutionalist approach of the parties that have ruled to date, if you have decided, by paying the five seats of the PNV or the two seats of Bildu, to change this policy and to make a policy of privileges for the prisoners of ETA, you as political leader can do it, you are right, but you must explain it and do not think that we will commulgate with your mill wheels. I tell you, we are where we were: not a privilege for ETA prisoners, justice and dignity. [[Applauds]] So don't sell us that your mortgage or rent payments in the Moncloa have to do with dignity. Dignity is what Mr Marlaska's sentence said, with which I agree, it is a pity that it was when he was a judge in 2015 and that you now do the opposite. And why does he do the opposite of the Minister of the Interior, who rightly argued? It is clear, because it needs its original sin, it needs the seats of the PNV and Bildu to take everything forward in this House. And Spain doesn't have to be waiting for a handful of seats that you need to be president, there are other formulas, Mr Sánchez. Socialists, liberals, conservatives, we can come to agreements, but you know how? Passing through the ballot boxes, creating a strong constitutionalist majority and regardless of the blackmails of the lords of Bildu or the lords of the PNV. But you, because you don't trust the Spaniards or the polls, by the back door, prefer to grant these mortgages that others would never do, as Mr Marlaska said in that sentence. Secondly, the electoral system. Mr Sánchez, you are the one who has blown up the Commission, together with the People's Party. We can and Citizens, closer or further away in some positions, agree to amend this obsolete Electoral Law. And you, because you don't care that the votes are worth the same because you don't trust the election victory, Mr. Sánchez, that's your problem, you want the votes to be worth different. And you want to choose, you don't want open lists. And he says about the plea vote, I'd miss more! But do you know who imposed the implored vote, which is an absolute disaster? You, Mr. Zapatero in 2011. [[Applauds]] So I'm glad that you've rectified the chapuza you've made in connection with the requested vote. As for the tax amnesty, Mr Sánchez, I ask you again here, and you have the opportunity to reply as long as you want, who is on the list of the tax amnesty. You committed yourself in this rostrum by asking Mr Rajoy and saying barbarities that as soon as he arrived at the government he would do so. And why don't you do it, Mr. Sanchez? What changes you when you are in the opposition or in the government? That there are people on that Socialist Party list? Are there people you don't want to reveal? Because you committed, you remembered the previous group, and I ask you, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] So don't hide. There is no legal report, nor has you claimed it here because there is no legal report, to prevent it. The sentence is compatible with publishing the names. Another thing is that you don't want to publish names because you have something to hide. By the way, speaking of hiding, I don't know what interests you will have, but you owe 50 million euros to the banks; we don't even owe a cent. But 50 million euros owes the Socialist Party to the Spanish bank! [[Applauds]] Yes, 50 million euros, plus the pardons of millions they received before it was banned by the current law. So, I don't know whether you should interest or not, I don't know if there's anyone on that list who doesn't want to publish, but those who owe 50 million euros to the bank are you, not us. Third point, Catalonia, Mr Sánchez. Here I have to stop these seconds that I have left. I find it unworthy of a president of my nation who can say that it is comfortable to live in the circumstances that some of us live in Catalonia. I find that outrageous, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] I find it outrageous to say that you live very well with escort, that you live very well when they point to your relatives. It seems to me very bad that when you point out to councillors, also from your party, you come here to say: How well you live in confrontation. In the confrontation, Mr Sánchez, perhaps it is you who live well, by agreeing and being president with those who generate the confrontation. What a shame for a president of this nation to make a balance between democrats and coupsmen, between those pointed out and those who point out, between those who generate violence and those who defend democracy! It does not deserve Spain, Mr Sánchez, to apologize to all Catalans who are watching us defend democracy. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, I have noted the following. You said: The crisis in Catalonia is only going to be resolved by voting. We've been saying this for months, years, and you've been denying it. It's obvious. In fact, we so agree that it is the same thing that a conservative like Cameron, a progressive like Salmond, the Catalan Republicans and many other Catalan Democrats said. Even the PSC said so; three members of the PSC here endorsed the proposal that the Spanish Government, the Courts first, take up a negotiation to make a referendum feasible. We fully agree, of course; we will have to vote and Catalan citizens will have to decide. Moreover, I believe that the dialogue between you and us is so useful that, even if we do not realize it, we are already decriminalising the debate. We've made a lot more progress than we think, and some of them are going to be more hysterical. Obviously, they'll be more hysterical. We're moving forward a lot, a lot, and history usually has a movement that's not even. Sometimes it looks like it gets a little bit of speed and sometimes it takes off like a horse, so we're good, we're good. If you have a legitimate proposal, such as a constitutional reform, you have the right and obligation to address Catalan citizens directly. Make a proposal and let Catalan citizens decide. I know they have a little bit of difficulty because they will have to agree with intolerance, but they have to make an offer to Catalan citizens. They have the right and the obligation to do so because they defend a legitimate democratic project, and we too have the right to address Catalan citizens directly. Of course I do. Catalan citizenship will have to decide if it wants A, B or C. Remember that the Scottish proposal, that of the Scottish National Party, was not the holding of a referendum with a binary question, the Scottish independenceists posed a referendum with three answers: the maintenance of the status quo, the return-max or independence. And it was Cameron who said, No; black or white. In short, the people of Catalonia have the right to decide all those proposals that come from the parties, because their right is as legitimate as mine, so I am very happy, but go carefully because the siege of the right will grow. But I welcome this phrase: The crisis in Catalonia is only going to be resolved by voting. We have already entered the phase of dialogue, a dialogue that does not presuppose that the negotiation is near and I do not say the agreement anymore, but the mere fact that we are able to put things within the scope of what modernity is, understood as the democratic resolution of conflicts, as it deserves an advanced society like ours, is a great step forward. Yeah, yeah, we're not bad. Not bad, but remember that you have the same right, that all my Catalan compatriots who are not independenceists have the same right to decide that 50% of Catalans who consider the solution to be another, and whatever you and I - sorry, you and we - will have to assume it. This is the solution and I know it's far away, but if there's no traps, we'll move on. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u79	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u80	Madam, Madam President, I shall speak from the seat and briefly. Mr President, I would like to bring up a matter which I do not know if it has become very clear about the Basque self-government. I absolutely agree with your words, of course I do: the agreement is necessary, and a cross-cutting agreement is the ideal, because that would ensure more future. We are on that, I really am telling you, but it is necessary that all the parties be proactive, that they are willing to change in some of their positions, that we can find a room for meeting. The problem is that when no specific proposal is made and everything is referred to a future change in the Constitution, it is self-excluding itself from the debate, and I fear that is what happens. That is why I ask you to pay attention to the debate that is being followed in the Basque Parliament. I know that this is not the focus of primary attention at the moment for the Government of the State and that Catalonia occupies a great deal of time, I understand that, but that is why I stress this in this second intervention. It's important that there are movements everywhere. We are ready for the agreement, I think it is not too late, I think it is possible, but immobilism, contempt for each proposal, the lack of concrete proposals for not wanting to get wet or for sending it out ad graicas can lead us to do nothing and that would not be good. I do not ask you to answer me now, I just wanted to give you this reflection and ask you to pay a little attention, from the distance, from Madrid, to this whole process. You'll have us at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, you have accused the President of the Government of having a programme full of ideology and without support in this House. I will tell you what is the ideology and support of your last three proposals in this House. The first is to legalize the rental belly, denigrating the women of this country. Let's see if they know once that women's wombs are not commercialized, that motherhood is not subrogated and that women's rights are not played. [[Applauds]] The second is the single contract, which means easy and cheap dismissal. And the third is to raise the electoral threshold to 3% to get those who don't think like you out of Parliament. There are three profoundly ideological proposals, one of right-wing ideology, one of right-wing ideology, and three proposals on which they have been left alone, and they have not even been supported by the other right-wing of the House. Completely alone; alone and right. That's Citizens: alone and right-wing. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, spokesman for the People's Party, is a little reckless that you use in the same intervention 'prisoners' and 'public money'. It seems you still do not know why there has been a motion of censure in this country. You still don't know why the majority of this House had to drive you out of the government? Because his party, his imprisoned treasurers, and his corrupts dedicated themselves to sharpening public money in this country. Looks like they haven't learned anything as a party. How dare you talk, for example, about pensions and lies if you were fooling pensioners for years by telling them that you could not charge more than a 0.25 rise while the richest in this country became richer, while Spain grew to 3%? And they were year after year impoverishing the pensioners. [[Applauds]] I am going to talk to you, although the President of the Government has done so briefly, about the inheritance we received, which we received as a party of the Government. The richest 20% earns in Spain seven times more than the poorest 20%. 28% of the Spanish population is at risk of poverty and between 20% and 30% of the children in this country - in this case, depending on who does the study - are at risk of poverty. That is the inheritance received and the greatest territorial crisis that this country has experienced in its forty years of democracy. That is the legacy we have received from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Whatever happens at the congress that you are celebrating this weekend, Mr Hernando, I wish you personally the best of futures. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile makes a gesture with his hand closing his fist with his thumb up.- Rumors]] I think Mr. Hernando and I understand each other. [[It's up to Mr. Hernando Fraile to do the same thing.]] Mr President of the Government, in order to return to Europe, to reverse inequality, to recover lost rights, to modernise our productive system, to carry out this whole progressive, ideologically socialist programme - which is most strange, ideologically socialist, coming from a socialist government - for all this it has the support of its 84 Members of this parliamentary group, but I am convinced that it also has the support of the absolute majority of this Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to show the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group my respect, my personal appreciation and the desire - not politically correct words, but I say this with total conviction - for the Congress of the People's Party to come out as best as possible. I think it is a good thing that there is a strong People's Party, which defends the interests of the citizens who represent their values, and despite the political discrepancies that we have had dialectically, Mr Hernando - we have had the opportunity to meet in other lives, in other circumstances - I would like to thank you for my person and my Government, despite their hardness, for their understanding during these weeks. As the spokesman for the Socialist Group has rightly said, I wish you personally and politically the best of the future. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Thank you]] Again, I cannot agree with your approach to bringing prisoners closer together. I have said this as active and passive, as peripheral, but I repeat to you and to Mr Rivera - who are a couple of people who have worked quite fat during the debates we have had - that this issue is going to be done in accordance with the law, so simple, and with all the empathy for the victims, for their memory, and of course for the relatives and people who have seen their lives cut down and dried up as a result of terrorism. Mr. Rivera was referring to what he said was a sentence. All I'm asking Mr. Rivera before he comes here and tells you things is that he's informed, that he's reading. It's not a sentence, it's a car, Mr. Rivera; there's a difference. [[Rumors]] I say it, more than anything, because, since you come here and pontificate, I want you to know that in formal terms it is not a sentence but a car, and you cannot read a sentence and omit the rest of the reasoning. Moreover, it forgets something very important, Mr Rivera, and is that this car is from the year 2015, that is, ETA was not dissolved, because an isolated phrase is interested and contradicts the whole of the rationale, as not to say the time in which it is located, which is also important when we are talking about such an important issue, as transcendental, as sensitive, as it is the approach of ETA prisoners to Basque prisons. With regard to fiscal policy, Mr Hernando goes back to the argument that the Socialist Party has done what it has done is to raise taxes, increase public spending, but fortunately for Spain the popular arrived, lowered taxes, decreased public spending, squared public accounts. I am sorry, Mr Hernando, that the reality is not according to your statement. Taxes were raised with the People's Party Government. You may not have felt them so much, but you did: the IRPF, VAT and a lot of taxes went up - I don't want to forget the fees - and public spending was cut a lot when you were in the government and you didn't square the bills, Mr Hernando. The public debt is 100 per cent of gross domestic product, the public deficit is 3.1 per cent of gross domestic product, we are under the corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact and the approach being taken by the Spanish Government is simply to recognise in that path of stability the deviations that all, including the AIReF, have recognised that they will have this budget and that of next year. Therefore, if we want to gain the credibility and confidence of the Community institutions, what we have to do is comply with our commitments. To say that we are going to fulfil commitments that we know beforehand that they are impossible to fulfil precisely what it does is to undermine our credibility. That's the exercise we've done. We have not claudicated for this; on the contrary, we have gained oxygen, which I believe is very consistent not only with our economic reality, but also with our social reality. That is a reflection that I would also like to make to the spokesman of Podemos because on many occasions on the left - I have to tell him that I too have made that mistake - we think we need to increase public spending. We would like to increase public spending much more, but let us not forget one thing, Your Honor: the economy is growing, at 2.8% it is the forecast; inflation is above 2% and, therefore, we have to be very aware of what self-limitations we too set ourselves to no longer increase inflation. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because macro-economics is not technical, in the end it is also the lentils that we have and with them we have to count. In any case, I believe that the path of growth of public expenditure that we are proposing or, rather, of containment of public expenditure, in a less intense way that was initially proposed by the previous Government, is also positive for rebuilding the welfare state, which I believe is what we agree with. It is true that the CIEs are not part of the reception system, that is obvious. They are centres to stay for up to 60 days, and most of them are used precisely for migrants who have to return to their countries; therefore, we believe that they are necessary. We do agree that we obviously need to improve them, and here too a resolution has emerged from most of the parliamentary groups on the attention to these CIEs, and we are prepared to do so, as both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of the Interior have said. So let's work on that line. Is it true that Libya is a failed state? Yeah. Do you have more than one government? Also. But it is obvious that it is a focus of migratory pressure right now. You speak of migratory pressure as if it did not exist in Spain. I agree with you in part: the reality of migration. Migration flows are a consequence of this demographic reality, but also, on the other hand, Your Honor, it is clear that right now we have a number of arrivals on the Spanish coasts in 2018 that already surpasses Italian: 18 000 compared to 17 000. Therefore, we have pressure, and that, if you talk to the mayors of your party or of your parties, you will be able to tell them, because I have spoken to them and they tell me: their limitations, their capacities are already to the maximum and therefore they need the support of the Government. I also believe that there have been women mayors of their parties who have publicly acknowledged the efforts being made by the Spanish Government in the field of immigration, and that is where I leave it. They are very aware of the reality that we are facing, of how we have to manage it and of the enormous efforts that this Government is making. I insist, they can criticize us many things, I am prepared to be criticized many things, but in the area of migration, ladies and gentlemen, they will be able to criticize us rather little in relation to the challenge before us and what is the response that other countries of the European Union are giving, which is very different, radically different from what we are proposing. With regard to the repeal of labour reform, I will tell you two things. One, the master plan that we are going to present to combat labour exploitation will incorporate many elements of explicit repeal of labour reform into all that has to do with precariousness and wage devaluation. Yes, you will see it when we present it to the Council of Ministers. And two - I have said this and I have spoken with the social partners - there are many issues that are already in parliamentary procedure on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and on the initiative of the United Parliamentary Group. We are willing to explore them and reach agreements, and that is all that has to do with subcontracting. I think we can find ourselves there, but we have to be very aware that we do not have a parliamentary majority to repeal from A to Z all the labour reform proposed by the previous government, there is no such reform. Talk to the parliamentary groups. We've done it and there isn't. But for specific modifications but which are very sensitive I am convinced that there is. Therefore, let us not enter into the easy reproach. You can reproach us that we do not want to completely repeal labour reform. I understand that this is part of the political game, but it is clear that this government is going to change substantive aspects of labour reform and I think that is going to be positive, because the social partners have also asked us to do so. Mr. Rivera is still with his raca-raca. All I ask of Mr Rivera is that he respect the victims of ETA and not use them to confront this government in its desperate search for votes. [[Applauds]] I appreciate Mr. Tardà's tone and words. By the way, Mr. Rivera was telling me about the tax amnesty. I tell you again, I don't know the names and surnames of the amnesties. Maybe you don't believe my word. I understand that you do not believe in my word, but I tell you that I have no idea who amnesties are. I'll tell you what. What this government is not going to do, and I am going to do in the first person, is to prevail. [[Rumors]] No, I'm not, Mr. Rivera. You passed the Tax Amnesty Act, it's something else quite different. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] For your peace of mind, Mr Rivera - don't see ghosts where there are no ghosts - there is a legal report from the State Attorney's Office of 13 July last that says in text that it is not in accordance with the constitutional order to allow the publication of this data. I close quotes. [[A Member: Now]] You, who are an advocate of the Spanish Constitution, who acts as a constitutionalist party, respect the Constitution, create the President of the Government, even on this issue alone, Mr Rivera. Believe me, if you consider, like this very Government and this parliamentary group, that it precisely promoted the use of unconstitutionality to the amnesty law, that there must be no new fiscal amnesty, when we bring that preliminary draft law I ask you to support it and to defend it. [[Applauds]] With regard to Mr Tardà, I believe that we both agree that this crisis must be resolved by voting. It is clear that the people of Catalonia have to speak because we are starting from a premise, which is the one we criticise in their day to the People's Parliamentary Group, and it is that right now Catalans and Catalans have a status that they did not vote for. In that regard, I believe that it must be resolved by a vote. Obviously, the terms of that vote for you and for me, for your group and for ours are different. In any case, welcome is at least that intersection with regard to the democratic solution. A reflection that I believe must also be made, Mr Tardà, is how many elections there have been in Catalonia over the past ten years. There have been a few elections, the legislatures have been greatly shortened and I believe that among Catalans repeatedly, systematically - you yourself recognized it before the elections on 21 December, there are two blocs. As you yourself said when you came up to the rostrum - at least if you allow me to interpret your words - around 50% of Catalan society supports pro-independence movements and around 50% of Catalan society does not support these pro-independence movements, but another kind of formulation to solve the crisis that exists right now in Catalonia. What am I getting at, Mr. Tardà? I honestly believe that what we have to do is transcend that block dynamics. Before - Mr Esteban will allow me to simply use that argument that I raised in his speech in the turn of reply - I told him that the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, one of the essential principles, of the premises, would have to be a cross-cutting agreement between different sensibilities and ways of understanding Euskadi, nationalists and non-nationalists. I believe that this path should begin to be articulated within Catalan society and its political representatives. I will tell you one thing, Mr Tardà, I have seen with good eyes the cross-cutting dialogue tables that have been set up in the Catalonian Parliament. That is a good touchstone, a good basis for starting to recompose also affinities, complicitys, trust and loyalty within the parliamentary groups that are in the Parliament of Catalonia. Of course, we have fundamental discrepancies, but we are well aware that this issue has to be resolved by voting. I thank the Basque Nationalist Party for its vision and its call to attention, and all its lordships too. They will allow me to thank, in particular, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group for all the support they are giving this Government. We are very aware of the enormous task they have in each and every one of the committees and that on many occasions they have to fit in bubbles to carry out many initiatives that the government brings - and that it will bring - to Congress, but we count, Mrs Lastra - Adriana - with the best team, which is the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much and thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-17-CD180717.u85	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned. It was two and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
