ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the debate on the whole of the non-law proposal against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, sexual characteristics and social equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersexual. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. There are no photographs taken in the Chamber, I remind you. [[Pause]] An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u2	Good morning, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin this intervention with a respectful memory for Ekai, the adolescent of Ondarroa who took his life last week waiting for hormonal treatment. [[Applauds]] This sad episode warns us of the need to treat with great care and care minors who are in such a delicate situation that medical, social, educational and of course family support is needed. Rest in peace. Spanish society, ladies and gentlemen, in the twenty-first century is an open, tolerant and respectful society but, despite this, we can still find discriminatory attitudes that violate one of the basic principles of our Constitution and our coexistence: the principle of equality and non-discrimination for any citizen, regardless of his personal or social circumstances. The persistence of inequality therefore forces us to continue to work from the legislative point of view to try to tackle any form of discrimination. A few months ago we discussed the consideration of a proposal for a law drawn up by the State Federation of Lesbians, Gais, Transexuals and Bixesuales, to whom I greet, as they are in the rostrum. The People's Parliamentary Group expressed in that debate its position in favour of the adoption of a legislative text that would lead to progress in the elimination of existing discrimination. However, we have already made clear in that debate our deep disagreement with the text presented, plagued by errors, some well-intentioned measures, no doubt, but wrong, others not so innocent, but above all imbued with an absolute disproportionateness in the response to this observed inequality. To respond to the existence of inequality, ladies and gentlemen, new forms of discrimination cannot be resorted to even more intensely, deepening the problem which is intended in theory to tackle and accumulating a series of unbridled proposals which also violate the rights of others, proposals which do not respect the principle of proportionality which the Constitutional Court establishes for initiatives in favour of equality. We can, for example, that administrative documentation in all areas of the proposed law is appropriate to sexual and gender diversity, urging the mandatory manifestation of information relating to something as personal and intimate as sexual orientation, pathologicalizing the human condition itself; the priority in access to certain rights and aids for LGBTI people, should be determined by other factors such as the status of victim of violence, but never by sexual orientation, as this cannot lead to the creation of an extraordinary protection status, which is where this proposed law is based; the promotion of the diversity of sexual orientation and gender identity in education, culture, sport, leisure or leisure time. Ladies and gentlemen, respect for diversity and rejection of all forms of discrimination and inequality do not lead to the need for intervention and promotion in all kinds of areas. There is the creation of a State agency against discrimination to punish known offences by complaints by individuals against public administrations, companies, the media, organizations, political parties or individuals with fines of up to €45,000. The same agency would be responsible for the elimination of texts, images, actions or attitudes considered discriminatory through their destruction, confiscation or deletion of documents, books or articles with expressions considered vehement or offensive. I believe that at this point they have realized the controversy and concern that has unleashed the possibility of the existence of this agency among those who regard freedom of expression as a great achievement of our democracy and see it very complicated to combine it with the censoring activity of this body. To that extent they have realized that they have been allowed to hear voices in the proposing group that speak of their inclusion as a serious mistake. I want to dwell on something else on this point because of its importance. They are serious violations of the proposal of law to recidivize the utterance of offensive or vicarious expressions, images or graphic contents, to recidivize the publication of such contents on the Internet, not to remove expressions or images. It is mild not to facilitate the work or lack of collaboration with the investigative action of this agency of the violations and serious obstruct its action, to defuse movable property due to sexual orientation, identity or gender expression and serious recidivism in it. Let us compare them, ladies and gentlemen, with those included in the Organic Law 4/2015 on the Protection of Citizens' Security. It does not contain any infringement relating to the publication or dissemination of expressions, ideas or contents, but it is, for example, a serious infringement of the unauthorized use of images or personal or professional data of members of the State Security Forces and Bodies that may endanger their personal security. This infringement has been brought before the Constitutional Court by deputies from various groups led by the Socialist Group on the grounds that it establishes a prior and disproportionate restriction on the right to freedom of information. Everything that was said about the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security if fundamental rights such as freedom of expression were violated and disproportionate sanctions were used, do you not bring it up now in relation to that text? Why? Do they like the same sanctions better in some cases than in others? It is as legitimate to punish violent demonstrations against the LGTBI collective as to punish them for other causes if it mediates the same violence. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do you consider that seizing images of the security forces spread in order to endanger their lives or their integrity is unconstitutional and, on the other hand, if it is offensive images for the LGBTBI collective it is envisaged not only confiscation, but destruction by the administration? Or do you more defend the freedom of a few against others? [[Applauds]] They may defend freedom in even days, but not in odd days, they defend it according to concepts such as opportunity or dogmatism. These are questions whose answer seems simple in the light of their erratic and advantageous position. To conclude this compendium of disturbing provisions of the bill, I will mention three issues of the utmost relevance to my parliamentary group. One is the possibility of receiving non-reversible treatment by minors without regard to their irreversibility or the legal status of a minority or the opinion of those who can and should make decisions about it, their parents or those who have parental authority. Two, the prohibition of medical treatment without taking into account Law 41/2002, Basic Regulation of Patient Autonomy, and medical and scientific opinions in this regard. And three, the significance of the disappearance of the legal category sex for the very ambiguous sense of sex. The implications that this amendment would bring with it are of such magnitude that we do not have time to stop at its consequences, but it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the legal transposition of this concept would require a much more careful and precise treatment than the hasty and penetrating of this text. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group, which is the majority in this House, is presenting today this text, drawn up sensibly and from the knowledge of the reality addressed, since there is abundant autonomous legislation adopted and in force that has been driven by autonomous communities in which the People's Party, such as Galicia, Madrid, Extremadura or Murcia, ruled or ruled. We have taken these texts into account in presenting a proposal that seeks to improve the living conditions of a broad and extremely heterogeneous group, united by the persistence of preconceived ideas, stereotypes and clichés about it, which affect the maintenance of that inequality that is intended to be corrected, but - this is the difference with the text presented by the United Group We Can - from respect for equality and without violating constitutional principles such as freedom of expression, ideological freedom or religious freedom. [[Applauds]] The text we are defending today is a text of guarantees, containing rights with a cross-cutting intention, developing the application of the principle of non-discrimination in public policies, with measures in the social, police, judicial, labour, family, health, educational, sports, youth, in the field of asylum, international cooperation, the Armed Forces and public administrations. It tries to respond to situations of inequality and discrimination that occur daily - some more subtle, others more evident - in order to move towards a more egalitarian society, where no one feels excluded. It fosters collaboration between civil society and public administrations. It establishes a State Council for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination for the implementation of the most appropriate policies in the development of the principles of this proposed law. Establishes, among other measures, support for all persons in vulnerable situations, specific care for victims in victim care offices in courts; special monitoring of equal treatment in employment through the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate; training of teachers to ensure the awareness needed to develop plans based on respect for diversity; development of protocols for action in schools to eliminate school harassment for sexual orientation and gender identity, with special consideration for harassment carried out through information and communication technologies; promotion and monitoring of real and effective equality in the Armed Forces, with awareness-raising measures on sexual and gender diversity and absolute confidentiality in public administrations in relation to personal data linked to gender identity of persons; encouragement of the inclusion of contractual clauses and public grant bases that ensure equal opportunities for persons LGTBI, in the health field; ensuring that transgender, transgender and intersexual persons are treated in accordance with their sensed identity; training of health personnel; and health-related information campaigns that can find more specific risk prevention. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a comprehensive text with which Spanish legislation, one of the most advanced in terms of equality and also in terms of sexual orientation, can continue to make progress on the basis of a stable general framework for ensuring equal treatment and combating discrimination without resorting to absolute intervention in all spheres of life, without creating categories that violate the privacy of people, without violating rights such as the freedom of expression that has been so hard to achieve, and which instead we must continue to consolidate, a stronger trunk on which to build among all parliamentary groups a more just and effective law, without creating, in the words of Chandran Kukathas, islands of tyranny in a sea of indifference, but rather an archipelago of different communities within an ocean of mutual tolerance. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u3	He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u4	Very good morning to all of you. It is impossible not to start my speech today without reminding Ekai. Ekai was a Basque boy whose sensed gender identity did not coincide with the one he was given at birth. Ekai committed suicide a week ago and I'd like to read the words with which a partner, Aitzole Araneta, trans activist, regretted her death. Ekai has committed suicide because of the institutional and social violence that left him no room to be who he was. It is our duty, from the institutions, to put all the means in place so that being the same is not for many people today a daily battle and that this battle will never take anyone's life again. The spokesman for the People's Group has had a memory for Ekai, a memory that we all appreciate, but we want you to remember also what I have just said: that it is this institutional violence, which you yourself promote, which has taken Ekai's life. [[Applauds]] Today I have put on a plate, which I do not know if you can see from here, which is the flag of the LGTBI pride, and which has the colors of the rainbow; it is a flag that I think represents us all and is the celebration of diversity, the celebration of respect. I have special affection for this sheet, on the one hand, because it was given to me by the director of Feminisms and LGTBI of Barcelona City Council, Laura Pérez, who does an tireless and invaluable job for justice and gender diversity, but above all I have affection for it because it represents the activist struggle of so many LGBTBI people in the streets. I don't know if you can appreciate it but, behind the LGTBI flag, there is a printed drawing of the flower pant, which is the typical drawing of the tiles of my city, Barcelona, and which has a flower shape. For me it represents all those people who have kicked the streets in defense of the rights of LGBTI people, rights that defend the law that we presented in September and that intend to annul this amendment to the totality that the People's Party presents today. These people accompany us today in the rostrum - they have returned after getting up not to listen to the spokesman of the People's Group - and I thank them very much for the patience and confidence that they continue to have in the institutions despite everything. [[Applauds]] Today I want to claim these activists and also denounce the betrayal of the People's Party of their cause. Last LGTBI Pride Day, in June, Madrid was the capital of international pride and two million people protested for LGBTBI rights. The Federation of Lesbians, Gays, Transsexuals and Bisexuals, organizer of the march and promoter of the state law, which its members of the People's Group are amending today, sent us a letter to all parliamentary groups in which they told us that we were invited to participate in the head of the demonstration, provided that we supported their struggle and their law on the rights of LGBTI collectives. The People's Party signed this letter that I have now here, whose first point says that the LGTBI law of the collectives will be supported, a law that today is being amended in its entirety. [[Showing a writing]] Here you can see Mr. Maroto's signature, which I don't see today in his seat. Mr Maroto is here in Congress, first vice-president of the Equality Commission and national vice-secretary of social and sectoral policy of the People's Party. Here we see Mr. Maroto next to Mrs. Levy paraded Gay Pride Day at the head, that is, committing to the law that the collectives presented. [[Showing a photograph]] Mrs Levy is Deputy Secretary of Studies and Programmes of the People's Party and a Member of Parliament in Catalonia. Despite this commitment, the People's Parliamentary Group did not support the adoption of this law in September, and today it brings us an amendment to the whole that has not been worked with any LGBTI collectives. It is a totally empty amendment, which does not contain any of its demands and which is a sart of empty articles with hollow formulas such as 'will be pushed' or 'will be encouraged'. It's a real caricature of a law, a shameful mockery of the LGBTI cause, a stabbing of social justice. [[Applauds]] To you, who are so many flags, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, does it not embarrass you to stand behind a flag and then betray your cause in this way? [[Applauds]] As much as they try to hide their shame behind the rainbow flag, today they take off their mask and show that they are the same as usual, the same ones who opposed equal marriage, the same ones who claim that lesbian and bisexual women cannot have a family, the same ones who denied boys like Ekai or Alan the right to be who they were. [[Applauds]] That's got a name, it's got a name, and it's called LGTBiphobia. What a terrible burden they must bear on their backs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party!: The unhappiness of so many people, so many truncated lives, a wounded community! I'm upset today. [[Laughter]] It seems to me that it has become clear that I am very angry, but it would not matter if it were an individual matter. It wouldn't matter. The problem is that it is an entire society that is angry today. It is a whole society that calls for justice. We saw it with the bus of HazteOir, the hate bus against which the whole society manifested itself, by the way, HazteOir is an association to which you do not want to remove the declaration of public utility. [[Applauds]] In the face of hatred, hatred of diversity, this society is united and unanimous. We are united in the defense of LGTBI rights. It is a whole society that is angry today and sees its betrayal. We are going to demonstrate this in today's votes, in which they are going to be left alone and completely isolated with their shameful amendment. And it will be demonstrated by Spanish society, which is far from its prejudices, intolerance and hatred. This law will move forward, your betrayal of the LGTBI collective will be for history and will not come free. Thank you. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u5	I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the amendment as a whole. They have brought us here an amendment written in 'Rajoyés', which is the language of not saying anything, of its political benefit, unconcrete generalities, abstract futureables, 'will be promoted', 'will be ensured by'... You have brought us a 'promoter'. Under this guise, however, they hide a gender ideology - yes, its - which, unlike what the Vatican says, is the very same of those who do not respect and hate precisely because they do not accept the diversity and complex reality of our bodies, identities and desires. So let's go in parts. Its amendment does not say anything about autonomy, its powers. Nothing you propose against our law is equivalent in scope and understanding of the reality of the Administration in Spain and the needs of the LGTBI collective. This amendment does not oblige the autonomous communities, it is not coordinated between ministries, it does not establish independent bodies that make up the collectives and ensure that their content is kept to a minimum. His amendment says more for what it is silent than for what it says and feminists, experts in the use of inclusive language, know that what is not named does not exist. [[Rumors.-Several Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We Can-In Common Can-In Sea: Shhh, shhh]] Among the much, much, that has ceased to exist in your amendment to our law, I point out two things that say more about you and your gender ideology than any electoral program. There are no definitions, there are no concepts, you do not stop to explain what sexual orientation is, what gender identity is, what gender expression is, and what regulation is imposed. The pedagogical and necessary explanation in the law of issues affecting a large part of Spanish society comes out of the text. There is ideology that wants to omit the diversity of people in Spain and its ideology. [[Rumors.-Several Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We Can-In Common Can-In Sea: Shhh, shhh]] There is ideology because, in addition, the specific measures necessary, dramatically urgent, for trans people have disappeared. There are no rights; there is no gender self-determination; there is no depathology; there is no health guarantee of access to fundamental treatments for survival. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u8	Let us review what else is not in this amendment. The reality of LGBTI people disappears from the realm of justice: detention centres, detention centres, situations of special vulnerability due to asylum or refuge; discrimination in the field of employment, paid work is not monitored; there is no impact on the level needed in education - that is, let us stop talking about how important education is, because it turns out that in its amendment it is not - so important for these young people, so that they grow up with the understanding of diversity and not with the hatred that so many lives destroy. The PP, in its amendment, erases the LGTBI families, erases them, as if it wanted to erase what does not respond to the mantra of 'one and free, and great', because it does not understand that if the family, as an institution, remains alive it is because people fashion it to our love, to our diversity, to our plurality and wealth. In their amendment they help the daughters and children of the LGTBI families, and they also make lesbians who want to be mothers nonexistent. Look, more absences that respond to your gender ideology: neither culture nor the media are in your amendment. There is nothing about leisure, leisure or sports. I'm finishing up. They bring an amendment that says nothing to prevent us from speaking freely of LGBTI people, of each and every one of their letters; it is an ideological amendment, since those who did not want to educate in citizenship or in equal marriage between people of the same sex do not recognize that the same people suffer patriarchal public violence, which also suffer LGBTI people and who are not normal from their ideology. [[Makes signs of air quotes with your hands]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, withdraw this amendment; read, think, accept the country that governs and stop stealing and plundering it. Do your job. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u9	In turn, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs García Puig, Mrs Castañón, it is amazing that you are using your turn to disqualify the proposing group from accusing it of treason and all the possible insults that we have just heard, when what we have done has been to resort to the mechanisms that democracy establishes to amend what we do not think is appropriate, and with what we do not agree at all. That which the Rules of Procedure of the House prescribes and stipulates without resorting to insults or demeanors. You will not have heard from my mouth any insults concerning the text or any of you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen who have spoken, Mrs García Puig and Mrs Castañón, you and I, like the rest of the Members of this House, speak on behalf of our parliamentary groups, which in turn represent the entire Spanish people as depositaries of their sovereignty. You should not insult those who voted for us, who are really the insults when you make those comments, which, by the way - I have to remind you - are many more than you and your group of organizations have voted for. [[Applauds]] I therefore ask you for the respect that this House deserves, that all the people we are here deserve and that you forget too often, possibly because it is not the use of respect that you use most. I would like to send a final message, speakers from the rest of the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, stop criticising the text presented by the United States We can privately and praise it in public for lack of courage. [[Applauds]] Dare to start work again with reasonable and reasoned proposals that could very well be derived from the presentation of its amendments, which would enrich the sensible text proposed right now through the amendment to the whole by the People's Parliamentary Group. We have that chance right now, let's not waste it. It is very difficult for us to achieve a sensible and effective law, an effective law, based on the text that entered the House a few months ago, so we have tabled this amendment to the whole - simply for that reason - from respect and from the will to work for the disappearance of discrimination once again. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u12	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u13	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u14	Let's start, if you think so, by not changing reality. No one here has insulted anyone. [[Several Members: No!-Mr Floriano Corrales makes negative gestures.-Applause]] Here it has been described how you have betrayed your word, betrayed your signature in writing; not us. [[Mrs. Belarra Urteaga: That's it!]] It's not about the Confederal Group, it's about the collectives, it's about the society, it's about the activists and the LGBTI activists. [[Applauds]] We are happy and happy that they are talking about freedom of expression, because it is indeed a subject that we have to talk about a lot, especially this week in which rappers are sentenced to jail, books are kidnapped or works of art are taken away from an international fair in Madrid like Arco. [[Applauds]] The law of the collectives that we present is a law of 99 articles where it is deepened on essential issues, on social, educational and cultural issues that concern the media. Indeed, you, as any other group - including ours - may have certain doubts about certain articles, but for that there are partial amendments, which serve not to nullify a text or the spirit of a text, as you do, but to amend concrete errors that may include a law. What you do with this amendment to the whole is simply change the spirit of the law. You have turned a law that defends rights, that defends respect, that defends the right to diversity of our society, into a law that says absolutely nothing. It's that simple. [[Applauds]] I will give you just one example that I believe does justice to what has happened this past week, Ekai's suicide and the suffering of so many other trans boys and girls. The law that we present reflects the total depathology of transsexuality, with measures in the family, health, justice, education, work, cultural and a wide range of things. The law proposed by the People's Group sends its proposals in a sad article. The situation of trans people in this country deserves you this, two lines, which is underlined. [[Shows a document with two underlined lines.-Applause]] Two lines that also do not include the depathologization of transsexuality, a unanimous demand not only of trans people but of the whole society. For you, for the People's Group, for the People's Party, trans people are still sick today. [[Applauds]] This is what his law proposes to us. Not only does it not give any more rights, but it confirms all the discrimination and lack of rights of LGBTI people. By the memory of the LGBTI people who have left, by the memory of all the LGBTI people who have fought, have the decency to withdraw their amendment to the whole. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u15	Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u16	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u18	I also want to join the memory for Ekai's life. Ladies and gentlemen, the PP proposes an alternative text to the proposal for a law of Podemos which corrects some of the excesses that we have already denounced in the September debate and which we believe is much more respectful of constitutional rights and principles, whose respect we demanded in that debate. We then said that this proposal did not respond to the general interest, which paradoxically enshrined privileges seeking to eliminate discrimination, which regulated matters affecting rights that should be regulated by organic law, which established obligations for the autonomous communities in matters of their own competence, which eliminated the ideological neutrality of the Administration and which did not respect either the freedom of expression or the right to the presumption of innocence or the best interests of the child. Those contrary reasons disappear in a text which, in our view, is eminently more neutral and more reasonable. I insist, in any case, on an idea to finish. We are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that partial view of freedom and tolerance that some have for which, for example, Catholics must tolerate all kinds of insults, offenses, insults, mockery... Take it with sport, smile; instead, other privileged groups must have a special protection status... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u19	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u20	...different to the same offenses. I don't like a Puemite mayor to call the Virgin of Pilar a whore and I don't like a head of state calling a journalist a faggot or a faggot; I don't like it, I reject both of them, they don't look like manners to me, but if the offense, ladies and gentlemen, it's the same justice must be the same. [[Applauds]] Creating privileged justice in the face of the same offenses for a few is not only unfair, it is also a frontal attack on equality, because basically it understands that there are or must be first and second Spaniards. And since we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, to help and contribute to this unequal society, we will vote in favour of the alternative text and reserve the right to amend those things that we think can improve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u21	I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u22	Egun on. Thank you very much. I want to begin my intervention by bringing all our affection to the people close to Ekai Lersundi, a young transsexual from Ondarroa who has taken his life at 16 years waiting for hormonal treatment. Unfortunately, it's not the first case. But if we want it to be the last and that the memory that we are doing here today serves something, it is necessary and also our obligation to prevent such situations so that people like Ekai can develop and self-determine in freedom in relation to their sexual and gender identity, guaranteeing them the necessary means in the social, health and educational fields. This will be far from being achieved if the text proposed by the PP is adopted. The Parliament of Navarre passed a pioneering law a few months ago, which is beginning to develop and is a major step forward. This Congress also took a first step in this direction, which now the PP wants to empty content with the amendment to the whole it has tabled. The text proposed by the PP represents a retrogression in terminology; it nullifies the much-needed action in the judicial, educational, labour and even cultural fields that the project under way rightly proposes. Not only that: it empties principles and content, nullifying the much-needed depathology and humanization of the reassignment process and denying people's free self-determination. It is a regressive proposal, contrary to human rights and lacking measures to act against discrimination. I understand the honors of the PP, it is politically incorrect to stand against this law, but that is what the proposed text comes to do. In a word, his proposal is an insult to the intelligence of his lordships, coated with empty words of real and offensive content for the entire citizenry that we bet to be part of a society of free people who can live their lives as they please, without this implying that they have less rights than other people. That is why we will vote against the PP amendment, which we hope will not come out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u23	Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this amendment is a shame, and starting with the memory of Ekai by presenting this text means that they are not ashamed and that they are very cowardly. [[Applauds]] This text is a declaration of total intentions; a lack of respect, a lack of sensitivity and an absolute lack of commitment to the rights of the LGBTI collective. In short, you do not dare to come here and tell the LGTBI collective that you do not share your struggle, that your rights are secondary to you. But to take the picture they are, and that's very cowardly. But luckily, the years of darkness are running out. We are in the 21st century, we are in the years of light, we are in the years of purple and rainbow, we are in the years of freedom and smiles, and they come here to talk to us about proportionality. Three years in prison for rapping will seem proportional to you. Or it seems proportional to them that the first trans councillor arrives in 2018, which, by the way, is of Commitment, because we do believe in human rights and that is why we make laws like this in our parliaments. They can't stop this anymore. Whether you like it or not will not stop your cowardice Yes, your cowardice. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: Insult]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have two options: to accept human rights or to return to the darkest basement they find to wrap themselves with flags and sing hymns until the next Day of Pride. [[Applauds]] You decide. Meanwhile, we will come here to be brave and raise the flag of equality here and where we rule [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u25	I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. They will recall that a few months ago a bill was accepted by all the groups of the House, except the People's Group, which was also endorsed by the work carried out by the associations of the LGTBI collective. It was accepted with the House's consensus and today you come to us to bring here an amendment to the whole with alternative text... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u28	...and, therefore, of course, showing that consensus is not his thing. Instead of taking advantage of partial amendments, they have preferred to bring their text here. Therefore, without any consensus, they want us to support them. No wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You are the ones who intend to govern Catalonia with four deputies, those who intend to illegalise referendums that have the support of 80% of the population or those who do not respect the election results by pretending to impose who will be the president of the Generalitat. No wonder they are not qualified for consensus, nor in such a sensitive matter. We are not going to give them our support, and I want to read a few words from Marga and Ana, two girls from Sabadell, my people, who say: It was five o'clock in the morning, it was our favorite song, we danced, laughed and enjoyed it until we kissed; a security officer approached us, threw water, told us that that was not a prostitute's club, insulted us, humiliated us and kicked us out of the club in front of everyone for kissing us. This did not happen ten or twenty years ago; it happened barely three months ago. Do something - we've been told -, we don't want to go out on the street knowing when and when we can't kiss. This law aims to eliminate all these discriminations and as a sign of their sensitivity in the matter I suggest that, for example, in the certificates of the marriage certificate issued today by the Madrid Civil Registry they have the sensitivity to change where they put 'husband' and 'woman' put 'husband' and 'husband' or 'woman' and 'woman' when they are of the same sex. Today Mr. Richard and Mr. Kevin Patrick appear as husband and wife in their Civil Registry certificate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u29	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u30	If you have such sensitivity, please change it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u31	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Since it could not be otherwise, I also want to start my intervention with the memory of Ekai, a 16-year-old, who was also from my village, from Ondarroa; a young transsexual who fought for him and who left us last Friday with a tragic end. The difficulties faced by young people like Ekai are circumstances that we must not forget so that freedom and social understanding in the search for and expression of the gender identity of all people is full. Our solidarity with your family. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] When the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United We can present the proposed law against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, sexual characteristics and social equality of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, transgender and intersexuals, which was taken into consideration by this House, I said in my intervention that from a claim and defence of dignity that is peculiar to every human being from birth to death, and even if it is perhaps utopian and overly generalistic, it would suffice to point out that no human being can be discriminated against and point, understanding discrimination as a negative act, act of rejection and that precisely goes against that dignity which I mentioned before, without adding any extra or complementary reason, is derived from his sex, gender, belief, etc., and all the characteristics with which people give our identity. That is why we are voting in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law brought to us by the Confederal Group of the United Podemos. Likewise, as other groups did, we showed our discrepancies; important discrepancies because, among other things, although we did not question what, i.e. the object being pursued, we did not fully agree on many issues in how, and reiterated to the proponent and to the LGTBI collective that how is very important; how is the environment, how is it how we want to achieve in the best way what we want to pursue, without interfering where it does not belong to us, removing what does not concern him, etc. That is why we said that this proposal was a basis, a legal ground from which to build a powerful law, putting what was missing and removing what was left. There were a number of issues that, we said and continued to say, we did not like: the part of infringements, the part of invasion of competences, etc. Mrs González, defend yourself without resorting to others. What I publicly criticize I do in private and vice versa. What I do not like about this proposal for a law I say, and at the stage of amendments we will try to remove or put what is missing, but do not use me to say to others: look at those of the PNV what they do. Defend yourself. Do I have anything against the text that the People's Group brings us here today? I have nothing against it. It does not question anything important, it does not commit itself to anything and more than a legal text looks like the Lord's Beatitudes. The question, therefore, is: why does the People's Party present this text that does not commit itself to anything or bring anything new that does not already exist? For precisely because of something that other colleagues have also said, because it cannot be added to acceptance at a given moment and, instead of seeking a consensus with a text that already exists saying with what they do not agree with and what they want to add, which is what we are going to do without any problem or pruritus in any way, you are doing what you are saying: no, we are different and we are going to present an alternative text. At the moment there are two questions: what do you bring in the text you have brought and why you have brought that text. Even in his own text there are a number of questions that sometimes let the paw of the presenter see a little bit. You present, for example, from the beginning, the creation of state authority. And I say, what do we need state authority for? But there's just another element I'd like to focus on. In the section on measures to be taken in the field of education, at one point they say how it will be respected in school with all pupils, etc., but they make a small addition that has not been passed on to me, which is a reference to without prejudice to what is stated in article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution. Do you know what Article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution says? 'The public authorities guarantee the right of parents to receive their children's religious and moral training in accordance with their own convictions.' And I wonder, why do they put that in? Since when in a democracy can respect create contradiction with the religious formation that the public authorities must guarantee? Why do they confuse two things, one with the other? Is it possible at school that respecting the rights of LGBTI contradicts the training and rights they have for religious education? Since when? [[Applauds]] Those of us who defend the right of parents to have religious education defend the right to respect for this collective. Why do you want to go around giving the image of continuing to drag prejudices? Because in that you see a bottom of sack in which you can't get away from certain, I don't know how to say it, yes, prejudices. In any case, I congratulate you, because the People's Party twenty years ago would have made voodoo on a subject like this. [[Laughter]] That you have brought such a text - I really mean it - is to congratulate you, because you come behind everything that others are doing, but then you are assuming it, and that seems fantastic to me. In any case - I am running out of time - for the reasons I have mentioned before, we are going to reject your amendment as a whole because, as we said when we approved the adoption of the text that We can bring, we said it then and we say it now, there are many issues that we are going to raise as amendments for them to be removed and others for them to be put. We will fight in what we believe should include that law, and if the end result we do not like we will have no problem in rejecting it, and if we really like it, we will support it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u33	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u34	Many good days to all and all. Thank you, President. I know that your flight will not be in vain and, as you said thousands of times in many things, that at least serves to pave the way for those who come behind. I hope you, my genius, are the last, Ekai. I generate art, Ekai. [[Applauds]] Ekai Lersundi was a 16-year-old transsexual, as it was said here this morning, that last week he was murdered; he was the victim of a social murder and he doesn't have to scare us to say so. I repeat, he was the victim of a social murder. Ekai struggled with his parents to recognize his true identity. The fragment I have read is from the letter Elaxar Lersundi, Ekai's father, wrote on the occasion of his death. Ekai, we also expect you to be the last. As we said in the debate before, the proposed law against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and sexual and social equality characteristics of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersexual, is not a proposed law in defence of the rights of LGBTI people, it is not. It is and must be a law proposal in defense of all people, because of all people it is the struggle for equal rights and the eradication of any kind of discrimination and because, ultimately, all people - those we are sitting here, too - are today responsible for the death of Ekai. The proposal for a law is the result of a laborious work by different collectives and political parties committed to guaranteeing the rights of all, a text far from what the People's Party has improvised - we must say so - behind the backs of the LGBTI collective, absolutely lacking, ladies and gentlemen, in content. Its thirty-three articles are, at best, a declaration of good intentions without any real significance in guaranteeing the rights of lesbian, gay, transgender, transgender and intersex persons. The proposed law taken into consideration by this House, along with other legislative initiatives promoted by collectives or by the LGTBI collective, unlike the alternative text presented today by the People's Party, means overcoming the problems generated by the false law of gender identity, facilitating... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u36	... and speeding up procedures for change of name and sex in official documents and certificates, abolishing compulsory medical treatment and mental health diagnosis as a requirement for recognition of gender identity and recognition of the right of minors to their sexual identity. In short, it means fighting for no more young people like Alan Montoliu, in 2016, or Ekai Lersundi, exactly four days ago, to be killed by our society. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why is this alternative text being presented to us? Why haven't they kept their commitment? The People's Party has returned once again; the ultra-Catholic People's Party, which defends the privileges of LGBTIphobic organizations such as HazteOir. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Legetebephobic People's Party returns, which resorted to the right of all people to marriage, which fought to prevent people of the same sex, for example, from getting married. This is the People's Party that we have seen here once again today. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's going on? That you are cowards, because you did not dare to vote against the proposed law against discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals and now go and present us with an alternative text under which to hide your null will to eradicate discrimination against LGBTI people. Behind this alternative text you intend to hide your homophobia, your biphobia and your transphobia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is so clear, despite your friends from the OPUS, despite your friends from the cave legetebephobic and despite your colleague and friend Mr Salvador, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will continue to work with all the associations and collectives committed to it and we will do so to eradicate the situations of discrimination, to ensure that in the Spanish State you can live the affective diversity, the sexual and family diversity, and you can do it with full and absolute freedom. Esquerra Republicana believes that there is still a lot of work to be done, a lot of work to definitely eradicate heteropatriarchy. We will continue to work, as we have always done, for the constitution of a Catalan republic fully respectful of the diversity and rights of LGBTI people who are also the rights, as I have said, of all and all. That is why, of course, we will be voting against this alternative text - and with great pleasure. Freedom political prisoners, went on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u37	Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything distinguishes my parliamentary group, Citizens, it is the constant quest for freedom and equality. We want a model of society that respects the rights of all and guarantees that freedom. And yes, society has already taken important steps, but much remains to be done. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u39	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u40	Freedom is hard to achieve and easy to lose. That is why we believe that the whole amendment of the Group of the European People's Party that we are debating today remains short, very short, in that constant search to ensure the freedom and equality of all the citizens of this country. It is a substitute that, as I will explain below and has already been said, does not bring anything new to what exists right now. Furthermore, it hinders the adoption of measures that effectively guarantee rights that are those of everyone and that we cannot and must not renounce. That is why I am already announcing that our group is going to vote against it. Moreover, we had already tabled our partial amendments to the original bill that was drafted by the FELGTB and I take the opportunity to greet you all from here. We believe that there is a need for a law that addresses all forms of discrimination against LGBTI people as a whole and ensures the possibility of personal development, both in the private and public spheres. That is why we do not understand the text that the People's Party has brought to this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u41	Quiet, please. [[Pause]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u42	It's just a statement of intent, it's wet paper, a smokescreen, and you know it better than anyone. They bring us a text full of generalities and good intentions but everything in abstract, without any concreteness. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I know that you do not practice it, but in politics you have to be brave and you have to get wet from time to time. Stop practicing legislative abstraction once and for all because this is a very serious matter. If very specific rules are not complied with or enforced, what will this text serve? We have the example with equality plans, with periodic evaluation mechanisms planned that are never met. In addition, the lack of regulation in this text which they raise in the field of health is particularly noteworthy; the articles which they devote, ladies and gentlemen, are shameful. For Citizens, the depathology of transgender people is fundamental and you simply go from point to point and, moreover, avoid talking about it throughout your amendment. I must tell you that it is curious - and also shameful - that you include adoption as a measure in the family sphere for LGBTI people, when the bitter reality is that the possibility of adoption in our country is completely blocked thanks to you; adoption in general for homosexual and heterosexual people. [[Applauds]] For more than two years, Citizens have been presenting initiatives that are approved in this House and that you do not comply with. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but I can't help but be surprised: truly, the degree of defachability that you can achieve has no limits. Nor can I resist reading the article textually because it perfectly represents the spirit of abstraction that guides your whole proposal. It says: In the field of foster care and family adoption, public administrations will apply the current legislation in the field of their competences. That's all. What does that mean? Because he doesn't say anything. What does this amendment look like? The current rules simply do not exist because we need a regulation that develops them and that you should have published more than a year ago and does not give them the will. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a statement of intent: it says that the Administration will promote, can, will be established, will favor, will promote... The document is full of verbs like these and behind them there is nothing, its content is not specified, no specific obligations are created that effectively protect rights. If that were not enough, it included procedures and agencies that already existed and that were not allocated anything new, such as the Office of Victim Care, which also included a list of definitions that were already clear and that did not provide anything that we did not know. I mean, they fill in pages and pages so they don't say anything. It is true that the proposal for an initial law needs many changes and improvements. I have already made this clear in the debate. This could have been done through partial amendments, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as we have already done. Do not say that we criticize the law in private because everything we had to expose we expose here, from the rostrum; we do not hide, you do and that is why you present this smoke curtain, so that it seems that you want to do something when you really don't care the least. Some point is included in its text that could be used to make some partial, for example, with regard to this state agency. It is true that the proposal that you brought here We can about the independent agency made no sense because it intends to create an agency independent of any administration that is erected as a judge and part and that is configured as a kind of fourth power, not subjected to anything or anyone. That is why, among other amendments, we have tabled a partial one at this point. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I must tell you the same thing I told you the other day from this rostrum about the wage gap: there is discrimination against LGBTI people; although we have already taken important steps - as I said - it continues to exist. There are still too many children who are terrified in school because they suffer the constant mockery of their peers; adolescents who end up thinking that they are worth nothing just to show themselves as they are faced with intolerants who pretend to decide about the rest - decide how to dress, how to talk, how to think, how to feel -; adolescents who commit suicide, unfortunately, like Ekai, who at sixteen years of age took his life only a few days ago because he could not achieve it according to his feeling, which, irreparably, undermined his self-esteem. There are also too many people who have been robbed of a large part of their lives, who have not been able to manifest themselves as they are until an old age. There are still too many people who see their labour rights limited. Too many people are practically invisible, such as bisexuals or intersexuals; many intersexuals have been subjected to genital mutilation without their consent and even the consent of their parents. Many people who continue to be treated as sick without being sick. Many people who suffer from double discrimination: lesbians, transgender women or people with HIV who, unfortunately, although not all of us are aware of this, are becoming more and more young. The case of Madrid is particularly alarming, there are still too many mockery and aggressions, ladies and gentlemen. It is worrying that hate crimes have decreased in all groups except the LGTBI group. It is also concerned that these aggressors are increasingly young. There are also many children from LGTBI families who are marginalized because of having same-sex parents, children born from underage pregnancies who are insulted and called merchandise. In short, we have the obligation, responsibility and debt to all LGBTI individuals and families. That is why this legislature must see how a law is passed that effectively improves the lives of these people, that provides them with the same opportunities as the rest of the citizens. And that law, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not what the People's Party has brought us here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Galovart Carrera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u44	Good morning. Firstly, like the previous Members, a few words of remembrance for Ekai Lersundi. Too many battles for a teenager: getting the name change in the register, getting the treatment he needed and getting respect for his reality in the institute. With the heart hurt for his memory and for all the boys and girls who continue to wait and fight like Ekai, for all those who can no longer we will follow, because we cannot allow them to continue to suffer so much or that one can come to an irreversible decision. That is why we will not stop until the reform of Law 3/2007, amending the registration of the sex of transgender persons, is passed without further extensions, lords of the People's Party and citizens. [[Applauds]] Dear Mrs Gonzalez, you speak very well but you have not mentioned any specific anti-discrimination measures and in favour of equal treatment. Dear Mrs Sorlí, the first public office is of a transgender of the Socialist Party, Carla Antonelli, who is there, in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is trying to make it believe that its new law would be the culmination of a legislative process in favour of the LGBTI collective in which it would have been actively involved, but it is not. What it presents is the continuity of a vote always against the laws in favor of the LGTBI collective. And so it turns out that the narrative he makes in the text of those laws - which by the way are all socialist marches - hides that he has voted against each and every one of them. For example, the law recognizing the right to same-sex marriage and joint adoption. She also presented a painful appeal of unconstitutionality that was dismissed. It voted against the above-mentioned Act 3/2007, against the proposed law amending the Act, against the Historical Memory Act, against the compulsory subject of Education for Citizenship and against the amendment of the Assisted Reproduction Techniques Act. [[Applauds]] Who gives more! Finally, it is striking that he does not mention in the legal background of the text the LGTBI protection laws of Andalusia, Extremadura and Madrid, which, this time, the People's Party voted in favour. In another respect, I must point out that the principle of legal certainty requires technical quality in the drafting of laws so that citizens can know their mandates with certainty without creating confusion. However, the PP in its amendment has lost this awareness of quality, as it is the expression of a poor normative technique without rigor and without clarity that aims to create confusion, make it done in order not to make and denature the proposal of comprehensive law. In addition, the ruling party has done quite the opposite of what was promised on 1 July on the occasion of the manifestation of world pride, supporting and pushing forward that law, that proposed law, which is here and has already been taught. [[Mrs Galovart Carrera shows a document]] Once again the People's Party has betrayed the collective because its text is pure declamation, pure faking and pure rhetorical exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy is said to be the secret tribute that vice pays to virtue. That is why there are good words in your text because you know well what virtue is, you know very well, but it is a pity that you have the vice of making your proposals not up to your words. [[Applauds]] That is why we are presented with a text that reiterates anti-discrimination principles that add nothing to the provisions of article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, a text that does not establish any mechanism to guarantee equal treatment and non-discrimination, a text that regulates the obvious and necessary: that the Administration must apply the laws, of course. For example, article 17 of its text provides that in the field of foster care and family adoption, public administrations shall apply the rules in force. Of course! I'd miss more! How can you legislate not to say anything? You are presenting us with an amendment that does not impose obligations on the Administration and thus repeat empty words of mandatory content: fifteen times 'promoting', six times'verifying', five times 'pulsing', three times 'establishing' and once 'favoring', 'adopting' and 'promoting'. [[Applauds]] Flatus voices. Word, word and word! [[Applauds]] Its text, ladies and gentlemen, does not legislate against discriminatory practices, nor on access to goods and services or against acts of violence, nor on mechanisms for redressing damage caused. Its amendment reduces the mention of transgender people to two and a half lines. And why? For these reasons, a law granting specific rights and obligations, including clear prohibitions and sanctions, and providing for specific, enforceable and very robust measures is necessary. And your text, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, does quite the opposite. Thus, because of the above-mentioned attempts to block any legislative initiative and because of the latter in our hands, it will all agree with me that the PP does not fail in its attempt to destroy the achievements of the LGTBI collective. [[Applauds]] As Boti García, an expression of the federation, says, they remain in the trench and shoot. To conclude this paragraph, I will make two requests to the government party. The first, stop firing because it's useless and because it causes pain. The second is that they withdraw the amendment because they are still in time to meet the commitments they made on 1 July. We and we, on the basis of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act, will formulate all necessary amendments to the proposed law to make it more coherent and more in line with the law. That law on equal treatment which we will shortly bring to the plenary and the law before us, LGTBI, will constitute the necessary regulatory framework against discrimination and in favour of equal treatment and will ensure, yes, with rights, obligations, prohibitions, sanctions and concrete measures, that lesbian, gay, transgender, transgender and intergender bisexual persons, as happened to Ekai, are never again discriminated against or excluded in this country. Thank you so much for your attention. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u45	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the items on the agenda concerning the convening by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final voting of proposals for legislation on the establishment of a minimum income allowance in the field of social security protection and amending Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers will be put to the vote together with the rest of the matters. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u46	We began by voting on proposals for legislation. We vote first on the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of equal pay for women and men. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 337 votes in favour, 209 votes in favour, 210 votes in favour, 127 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u47	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - PROPOSAL FOR THE LAW OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDMENT OF LAW 50/1981 OF 30 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE ORGANIZATIONAL STATUS OF THE TAX MINISTRY. [[File number 122/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u48	We now vote on the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group amending Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 336 plus one by-election, 337; in favour, 103; against, 231 plus one by-election, 232; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u49	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u50	We now turn to the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the official non-recognition of the distinctions and titles of nobility. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 87 against, 242 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u51	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL NO LAW OF THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP, RELATING TO DEROGATING THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2017 OF EMERGENCY MEASURES ON THE MOBILITY OF ECONOMIC WORKERS IN THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[Señor CAMPUZANO]] [[File number 162/000497]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u52	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, to repeal the Royal Decree-Law 15/2017, on urgent measures regarding the mobility of economic operators within the national territory. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour 94 against 243.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u53	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u54	We shall now vote on the motions, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, a motion resulting from an urgent call by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller, on the level of commitment of the Government to the reform of autonomous financing. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 155 against, 3 abstentions, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u55	It's approved. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. [[File number 173/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u56	We shall now proceed to vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the measures the Government intends to take to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 208 against, 129.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u57	It's approved. - Motion for an urgent interpellation between the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and the United States of America on the liquidation and termination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and the Quality of Services and the Failure of the Evaluation of Public Policies. [[EVAL]] [[File number 173/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u58	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the liquidation and termination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and the Quality of Services, Aeval, and the lack of evaluation of public policies. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 166 against, 131 abstentions, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u59	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed law against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and sexual characteristics, and on social equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersex, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Rumors]] The vote will begin. [[Pause. - Rumors.]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 1 telematic vote, 338; in favour, 131; against, 206 plus 1 telematic vote, 207.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u61	The amendment is rejected in its entirety. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u62	We are now voting for legislative initiatives. Firstly, the request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote on the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security protection, submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour 168 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u63	There's no lawyer left. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. - REQUEST BY THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP FOR THE COMPLETE ADVOCATION OF THE HOUSE OF DELIBERATION AND FINAL VOTATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE LAW AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 42.1 OF THE STATUS OF WORKERS TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY IN THE WORKING CONDITIONS OF WORKERS SUBCONTRACTED. [[File number 122/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u64	We now vote in favour of the House's request for the deliberation and final vote of the proposal for a law amending Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers, submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 169 against, 132 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-22-CD180222.u65	The proposal for a law is called for by the plenary. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was ten and thirty-five minutes in the morning.
