ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u1	We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions, first of all, to the President of the Government. We begin with the question from Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, what assessment do you make of the situation of science and research in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. I believe that in Spain we have a good system of science, we have researchers with a global impact in various areas, numerous leading centres, leading scientific and technological infrastructures and an important participation in many of the largest European and international installations. As in everything, it can and must be improved, and for that we work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u6	Mr Rajoy, Spain is a great country and the Spaniards should be proud of Spain. Unfortunately, you and your Government are mortgageing the present and future of Spain. They are hypothecating the present because you are not even able to present here a draft law on the general budgets of the State, in breach of the obligation imposed on you by article 134 of the Constitution. You are incapable, and your Government too, of fulfilling the commitments you make to the State Security Forces on the issue of wages and, of course, do not allow the opposition to present initiatives here. But, being serious what you are doing, mortgageing the present of Spain, it is much more serious what you are doing with your future, and it is much more serious because a country that does not invest in research, science, technology and innovation is doomed to lack economic progress. Economic progress requires sustainable growth, modernity and science and research. Of course, Mr De Guindos has had his personal agenda to place himself at the European Central Bank and has not devoted himself to what needs to be done. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u8	In Spain, the resources allocated to science, research and R & D are only 1.19%; the European average is 2.3. Look, what a difference! And very far from the 3% that is going to be dedicated in 2020. 27 000 jobs have been lost in the sector and 30 000 well-prepared Spanish scientists have had to go abroad. We want a Spain with scientists like Severo Ochoa, like Ramón and Cajal, like Gregorio Marañón and we have young people who can do it, but you, with your policy, are condemning them to exile. I refer you to the words of scientist Mariano Barbacid, who says that with his policies the welfare state will become more vulnerable every day, or to what our scientist Margarita Salas says: We have good young Spanish scientists and they condemn them to exile. Mr Rajoy, stop mortgageing the present and future of the Spaniards. You've only been through this, but let us... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u9	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. You have not started your intervention by talking about research and science, but you have introduced two concepts into it. First of all, he has told us about economic progress. Let me not give you too much moral authority to talk about economic progress after five years of negative growth and job loss in Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr De Guindos was referred to as the second concept he introduced in his speech. I better not say anything, I just remember what happened to Mr De Guindos and Mrs Valenciano, a demonstration of the patriotism and intelligence you have. Having said that, as you know, investment in R & D & I began to decline in 2009, after being told that for the first time in our entire history Spain was going to spend above the European average, which it did not do. Spain had five years of recession, thanks to its economic progress, and this affected all economic sectors, because, among other things, EUR 70 billion in collection was lost. Then, economic policy changed, economic growth and job creation began, collection increased and already in 2014 the government made a clear bet for science and in 2016 an increase of 11% was consolidated. I would recommend - after reminding you that the level of science in Spain is of the first order - that you start to speak well of Spain. There are things to remember, such as that we are the third country that gets the most projects in the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme, the fourth for returns and the one that leads the most projects. In addition, Spain participates and leads very ambitious international programs, such as the consortium of the Cherenkov Telescope Network in the Canary Islands, the European Molecular Biology Laboratory or the supercomputer MareNostrum of Barcelona, where it would be useful for you to see how science is working in our country. Progress has been made in some things, we have launched the State Research Agency, we are on the right track and we will continue to make a commitment for science and innovation in Spain, even if you have stayed in the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u11	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA FORM THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE THE SUPPORTS TO SUPPORT THE GENERAL BUDGETS THIS YEAR OR DO YOU HAVE PROVIDED TO PROGRAM THEM? [[File number 180/00545]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u12	He also asked the President of the Government of the Member of Parliament, Fr. Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, does the government have the support to carry out this year's general budgets, or does it intend to extend them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. That's two questions. To the question of whether we have support to approve the budgets, I will answer that we are working to get support, as happened with last year's budgets. If you want to join, you will be welcomed. [[Laughter]] The second question is whether we are going to have to extend the budgets. They're actually already extended. As you are well aware, the Constitution states that the initial budgets for the previous financial year are considered to be extended until the new ones are approved. They are therefore extended. In fact, on 29 December 2017, as you also know, we approved an agreement by the Council of Ministers to implement this extension from a technical point of view. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u16	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, you told me the last time I asked you here not to ask you about corruption, to ask you about something else. You see, I'm asking you about something else, because of corruption, the judges are already asking you. I am glad that you have quoted the Constitution, because the Constitution says something very important, and that the budgets have to be debated at the seat of popular sovereignty, at the Congress of Deputies. The Constitution provides that, in the event that you do not have the necessary votes, they may be extended, but it is a constitutional obligation for you to subject the budgets to debate in the Congress of Deputies. I have to ask you to do your duties as a government. We have, modestly, presented alternative budgets. It is our obligation as an opposition, you pay us for it, and you have an obligation to debate the budgets here. I suspect that you want to escape, and that practice of escalating implies at least two things. The first is that we have a government that does not comply with the Constitution, an illegal government. You've already been called in some places by the illegals. [[Rumors]] The second is that you do not dare to have a discussion about the economic results of your Government. In this country for the first time health spending is going to fall to 6% of GDP, we are on the European line in spending on education, ninety Spanish citizens with the situation of recognized dependency die every day without receiving the resources and services to which they are entitled. That must be discussed at the seat of popular sovereignty. Look, the situation of the accounts of the Spaniards is what matters most to the Spaniards. I suspect that you are interested in other accounts, those which Mr Bárcenas took and pointed to you as receiving illegal charges. There is something very clear: someone who has been illegally financed should never put his hands on the Spanish accounts, but, if he does, at least he has to come to Congress of Deputies to face it. [[Applauds]] As long as you're free, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, come face-to-face and do your job. Stop being illegal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u18	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Indeed, this question is timely and reasonable. So I can tell you that my intention is to present the draft General State Budgets in time to have them approved at the end of June, exactly the same as last year. Then we were able to reach an agreement and that was good for Spain and very well valued from outside. I would like this to happen again with the 2018 budgets. There is one fact that is of great importance and that is sometimes obvious, that is that the spending ceiling was already approved by this House last June. Now we will continue to work to take the second step, which is the approval of the budgets themselves. In any case, if it were not possible to reach an understanding, I would recall that the budgets are already extended. Spain has budgets, good budgets, those of the year 2017, that served to generate more than 600,000 jobs. In addition, there are some other decisions that can be made by other procedures provided for in the legislation. I've seen your budget initiative. You have no problem because you know perfectly well that you are not going to approve, but it gave me the feeling, when I saw it, that they were the budgets of a millionaire, because there is no way to pay them. I tell you with absolute frankness, Mr. Iglesias. In his budgets - or something similar to the budgets - all the items increased. Then there is no money to carry them out and what is done is to generate frustration and start again with something that we already live in Spain and that should serve us all to know what needs to be done and what needs not to be done. The problem of the crisis in Spain was spending what was not there and reaching a public deficit of 11%. We were about to break. Therefore, let me make the budgets and devote you to other more entertaining activities. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE JESUS GIFT TO THE MARTINEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT PLANS DO THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT HAVE TO GUARANTE THE PENSIONS AND AVOID THE PENSIONISTS TO LOSE ACQUISITIVE POWER? [[File number 180/00537]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u20	He also asked the President of Mr Íñigo Jesús Alli Martínez of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, article 22 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that persons living in a society have the right to social security. In Spain pensions form a backbone of the welfare system. Regardless of whether there is an agreement in the Toledo Pact - there the Navarro People's Union will always be in consensus to guarantee pensions - the three questions I ask you, Mr President, are the following. Firstly, what will your Government do to guarantee pensions today and in the future? The second question is: What will your government do to maintain the purchasing power of pensioners in Spain? And, thirdly, are you going to increase pensions by referring to the CPI?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Having the public pension system possible is one of the basic priorities of the Government, of you and, in general, of all the Spaniards. When I first appeared in this House to submit to the investiture debate, difficult times were coming: we were in the biggest economic crisis in our recent history; the state's revenue had fallen by €70 billion, which is said to be soon; we all had to adjust our belts and we did it, there were only two exceptions, the expenditure on pensions and the expenditure on unemployment, which were the only items of the budget that were not touched. The aim now remains to guarantee pensions and their purchasing power, and this must be done in a two-way way: firstly and most importantly, to create employment, and secondly, to continue to make reforms within the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u24	Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the condition of generating employment is a necessary but not sufficient condition. I say this because if we look at the quality of the jobs that are being created, the contribution to the system of social security distribution is not enough to maintain stability and viability in the future. I ask you this question for three reasons, Mr President. First of all, because there is uncertainty in society, in the street, and you have the opportunity to reassure pensioners today. Secondly, because there are still too many families in this country today whose pensioners, with their pensions, are economically supporting many families and their children's families. Thirdly, because if I confine myself to Navarre - and I must allow this - I am very concerned about the situation of the Navarra pensioners, who are paying much more taxes thanks to the tax increase decided by the foreign government of Navarre. As long as no decision is taken, the pensioners in this country have received a letter like this which tells them that they are going to increase their pension by 0.25 %. [[shows a card]] You and I know, Mr President, that inflation forecasts for this year and for the future are going to be well above 0.25 %. The purchasing power of pensioners will therefore be impaired. That is why, Mr President, my group, Union del Pueblo Navarro, urges you to increase the rate of pension revaluation by referring to the CPI so that there is no loss in the purchasing power of pensioners in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Believe me, I share your good intentions, like all the members of this House. What happens is that I have an important responsibility, which is to govern, and therefore I have to adjust the expenditure to the total revenue. I have told you that the most important thing to guarantee the pension system and its purchasing power is to create employment. And I will give you a fact that is very revealing of what has happened in Spain in recent times. In 2011, when we arrived at the Government, for each pensioner who entered the system, there were three fewer social security contributors; 117,000 pensioners entered the system and 355,000 members were less then. However, in 2017, 6.3 jobs were created for each new pensioner in Spain; 96,000 more pensioners in 2017 and 611,000 more social security contributors. This is the key and this is what allows us to ensure that there is a pension system as good as we currently have in Spain and, at the same time, to guarantee the purchasing level. Everything else is good intentions, which must be maintained, but the responsibility to govern goes beyond many things, as you know, Mr Alli. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY ARTEMI RALLO LOMBARTE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE APPOINTMENT OF THE NEW SPANISH MAJESTRY OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS CONTRIBUtes TO IMPROVING OUR INTERNATIONAL PRESTITUTION? [[File number 180/00543]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u28	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Firstly, a question from Mr Artemi Rallo Lombarte, from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u29	Minister, let's make this clear. First, you called for a plan to prevent an exceptional lawyer such as Mrs María Emilia Casas, who is an express representative of the Spanish Constitutional Court, from taking up the Spanish vacancy at the European Court of Human Rights, and thereby leaving the ex-commitant of the People's Party, Mr Pérez de los Cobos, free. This gross maneuver was overturned by the Supreme Court on grounds of discrimination. Second, you proposed a fake candidate suit based on fake resumes, at least in language skills. And third and main, you proposed to a homophobic candidate who, regrettably, will fill the Spanish vacancy no more or less than in the European Court of Human Rights. Doesn't it embarrass you, Minister, the shameful spectacle that the Spanish Government has starred in all of Europe? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u30	Minister. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u31	Thank you, President. Your Honour, allow me to help you understand the procedure for proposing candidates to the Court of Human Rights, given - as I see it - your absolute lack of knowledge in this matter. It is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that elects the candidates. It's an expert panel that informs them. [[The Lord]] There has been a selection process with five successive phases, which is what it has proposed; therefore, the Government has nothing to do with the appointment of the Spanish judge to the European Court of Human Rights. Anyway, I think we should be pleased that for the first time in history a Spanish woman will be a judge of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u32	Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u33	Minister, there is no justification or possible explanation. What they have done has no forgiveness from God. Bochorno is total. The Supreme annulling, by trickery and discrimination, an agreement of the Council of Ministers. A former president of the Spanish Constitutional Court unable to defend himself in English or French, which are compulsory languages for selection, and asking to be asked in Spanish. And the worst thing, minister, is that you've sat in Strasbourg with an integrist and homophobic judge. [[Rumors]] Minister, Spain, a global example in the fight against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, has promoted to be part of the Court of Human Rights an integrist and homophobic judge. [[Rumors.-The Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister. Spain, a world leader in tolerance and the defence of human rights,... [[Rumors.-Mr Floriano Corrales: It's one thing...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u34	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u35	... is represented in Strasbourg by an integrist and homophobic judge. That's a big mouth and a small shame. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u36	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u37	Minister, what more do you need to have an outburst of dignity and present your irrevocable resignation to Mr Rajoy, since he has no intention of ceasing it? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u38	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u39	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I really don't understand what's bothering you about Mrs. Elosegui. That she's a woman? That he's not progressive? Have religious beliefs? Are you going to continue giving democrat cards in this country? [[Protests.-Mr. Rallo Lombarte, patting himself on the cheek with his hand: How little shame!-Mr. Tarno Blanco, patting himself on the cheek with his hand: You have face; you!]] For how many more years, ladies and gentlemen? For how many more years? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Your Honor, this is the certificate from the General Secretariat of the Women's Institute, which in 2005 believes that Mrs Elóségui helped the Socialist Government to make its Equality Act. [[shows a document]] [[Protests.- Mr Rallo Lombarte makes negative gestures.-Various Members: Come on!]] It is true, it is true that he was working with the socialist government. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I don't know if it's clumsy or petty which leads you to raise this question, I don't know very well. Both of them. [[Rumors.-Mr. Floriano Corrales: The two, the two]] I prefer a judge who is at the European Court of Human Rights because he has all the guarantees of being on the side of the law and not because he has gone on electoral lists or because he has been a high office of the socialist government, like the previous one. I prefer a judge who is on the side of the victims, who does not buy the arguments of the terrorists and who does not discuss the rule of law in Spain. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: Very well!]] [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr Rojas García: Come on!-Various Members: Very well!]] I prefer a judge who defends the doctrine of the Spanish Supreme Court, because it is a guarantee of the rights of all Spaniards. [[The lady]] They said we were going to make a system so that a lady wouldn't come out; for a woman came out. What do you see wrong with all this? It has been a system with five filters and is the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, where there are lords of the socialist bank who have voted, and have voted for Mrs Elosegui, although the exact vote of each of them is not known. Therefore, there is a contradiction; one more, as with Mrs Valenciano, as with Mr De Guindos. What incoherence, ladies and gentlemen, what incoherence. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERRION, OF THE CUSTOMS CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMUNICATELY POSSIBLE IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW LONG HAVE THE GOVERNMENT'S FUNCTION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF JUDGMENTS ON IRREGULAR FINANCING OF YOUR PARTY BEEN AFFECTED? [[File number 180/00546]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u40	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, to what extent is the functioning of the government affected by the People's Party's illegal financing trials?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u43	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Government is dedicated to enforcing laws, serving the general interest and, therefore, in the area of justice, we are trying to contribute effectively to the day-to-day functioning of justice that is bringing to light cases of corruption, being prosecuted, being convicted and, therefore, that all citizens know that in Spain independent justice works every day and that whoever commits an offence pays for it and is condemned for it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u45	Last week, Minister, we learned more excruciating details of two trials involving vertebral columns of your party and of what you intended to make a model for Spain. You will remember Mr Rajoy when he said that Mr Camps was a model for Spain; we just saw him sitting in court by the Gürtel. We have seen that in the Community of Madrid, while the roofs of hospitals fall, Granados, Cifuentes, Esperanza Aguirre and Ignacio González are set in a gang war. And they're not just two communities, they're two communities that have represented flagships of their project for our country. I'm not asking you a question about corruption - I hope you don't know anything about how these trials are going on -, what I'm asking you is if you, in the middle of all this mess, have some time to rule, because something must have you very busy. Throughout this whole legislature, which is already on its way to being a lost legislature, you do not govern, you do not present projects, you do not develop a course for our country, but you do not let anyone do it either. This is how the chronicle of Spain's present is written today more in the judicial chronicle than in the BOE or in what comes out of La Moncloa. If we had a government in Spain, we would have a project to guarantee pensions instead of jokes about what would be saved by the pensioners with the cafes; if we had a government, we would have an unbridled battle against the precariousness that makes, for example, for young people to form a family a sport of risk; if we had a government, we would have some draft budgets to discuss or a model of autonomous financing, as they committed themselves to presenting, to shield health or education. However, we do not have any of that, because a Government is a collective direction, a proposal where the country wants to go. You don't have any of that and you don't seem to be presenting any of that in the short term. You have already brought more appeals before the courts than draft laws in this House, and when we do so, when we try to do our job, you are dedicated to blocking it either by veto or in the Bureau. My question then is very simple: If you do not have a project for our country, if you do not want to do anything with our country, why do you govern? I have the suspicion that you are ruling to buy time, to seek scapegoats and to hinder the action of justice, but if that is so, you, Minister, are not a government, you are a burden to our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u46	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u47	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I think we should ensure that the presumption of innocence is applied in Spain and that sentences are expected to know the final result, because if one stays in the intermediate stages of judicial proceedings he hears statements from people who are being investigated with very serious accusations and who sometimes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u48	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u49	...say things you're about to see, you're about to believe. See if I listened to Mr. Rioboo when he says that you charge in B, that you are doped with money from Iran and Venezuela... Better to wait at the end of court proceedings, as you say when you have favorable sentences, that you like to have them. Therefore, let us wait at the end of the sentences. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u51	We have a problem, it is true, but it is not to be ruled out, it is that perhaps you do not know what we are doing, because if in Spain we are growing above 3%, if more than 500 000 jobs are created, if we are developing all public policies and public services work every day, I say that something will have to be seen by the government. You do not need to acknowledge our merits, but I believe that something has to do with the government's action to ensure that things go as they go in Spain. We have much to do, and that is why we have brought into this House multiple state pacts: that of combating gender-based violence - by the way, it did not seem too good to you -, a pact for education, a pact for justice, a pact for pensions. All this is in the House, Your Honor, and we hope to be able to develop it in the time that we have left of this legislature, I hope even with your cooperation. In any case, Your Honor, I thought you were going to bring some proposal on what we have to do to ensure that corruption does not become the fundamental concern of the Spaniards. So what should be done when a person, for example, fails to comply with his tax obligations or with Social Security? Do we make him secretary of organization of political parties? What do we do about the one who speculates about public housing? Do we make you a senator? What do we do with the one who makes money with fraudulent tourist rentals, we make him a parliamentary spokesman? [[Laughter]] Those look like Podemos' recipes. We believe that we must ensure that justice works and continue to govern for the well-being of Spain, which is what we do every day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u52	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - FORMULATED BY THE DEPUTATE DON JOSÉ MANUEL VILLEGAS PÉREZ, IN SUBSTITUTION OF DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF PROCEEDINGS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS CONSIDERING TO PROGRESS THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE AND NOT TO BRING THIS CAMERA TO NEW ACCOUNTS FOR 2018? [[File number 180/00553]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u53	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr José Manuel Villegas Pérez, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u54	Mr Montoro, you and other members of your Government have made statements that you are willing to govern two, three and up to one hundred and fifty years without approving general state budgets in this country. We do not agree with that attitude of resignation they have. We believe that, now that Spanish society is getting it back to the economic crisis, what this country needs is stability and budgets that will help that economic recovery. But, moreover, as has already been said here today, you are failing to comply with the Constitution. You are failing to comply with Article 134 by not bringing these budgets here, regardless of whether they are then discussed and approved or not. That is why I ask you, Mr Montoro: What reasons does this government have for resigning to a situation of indefinite extension of budgets without fulfilling its obligation to bring the 2018 draft budgets to this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u55	Thank you very much. Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the reasons are the same as I gave last October when Mr. Girauta asked me why I did not bring to Congress the draft General State Budgets for 2018. I explained to him the reason we had, and it was basically that we lacked parliamentary support to be part of the majority of Congress; we were talking in the middle of the crisis in Catalonia, the biggest crisis our democracy has had. His lordship, at the time in October, replied to me fully understanding the government's explanations, to the point that instead of blaming the government for not bringing the budgets, he said: '...I want all of Spain to know - he said - that because of those who prevent the approval of the budgets - looking there, not looking here - we will be left without the reduction of the IRPF that we had agreed and that it would benefit three million taxpayers, we will be left without the increase of the paternity permits; we will be left without 2000 euros per family per year for education from zero to three years, we will be left without the salary supplement for young people; we will be left without 80% increase in the financing of the Mediterranean corridor, we will be left without the start of the just and relevant salary matching between the Civil Guard and the police and the autonomous police and we will be left without the end of the cultural VAT'. [[points to the banks on the left]] [[point to blue bench]] End of date. So, do you want to explain to the House what has made it possible, from January onwards, for citizens to make more reparations than we had already established together in October to carry out the budgets? Because, if you have it right, I, of course, will take good note and try to get over it. The government's commitment is that we bring the draft General State Budgets for 2018 as soon as possible. This is what is right for the Spaniards and it is right for the political stability of Spain. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u57	Mr. Villegas. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u58	Indeed, Minister, you spoke and spoke of a lack of support; something has changed. You have approved the 'cup' in these months. I suppose now the support of his friends the Basque nationalists will be assured after having given them the 'cuponazo', with the invaluable collaboration, as a necessary collaborator, of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which blocks the budgets but does not block the 'cuponazo'. [[Applauds]] Look, if you already have the support of the Basque nationalists after the gift they gave you, we're going to make it easy for you. We only ask you to rectify and, for once, to keep your word, to come out of paralysis, to come out of immobilism. Gentlemen of the government, do it. We're just asking them to do that, to do it. May you keep your word and stop protecting those accused of corruption. May you comply with the police and civilian guards in this country and stop gagging those more than 300,000 families what they really deserve. That they comply with their constitutional obligation, which we have reminded you of, but above all that they comply with Spain, that they comply with and bring in budgets that are necessary. I will not remind you of all the advantages that these budgets bring thanks to the pre-agreement signed with Citizens, because you have already done me the favor of remembering them: IRPF discount, paternity week, etc. Total €83 billion in measures that will improve the lives of Spanish people. Therefore, comply with your obligation and bring those budgets. They have a chance; if they don't take advantage of it, they will lose our support, but they will also lose... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Villegas, but if you are the one who has publicly presented new reasons for not coming to this House from the General Budgets of the State. At least recognize it; recognize it. Citizens, after Christmas vacation brought new reasons. Moreover, it has the Government's doors open to complete those pacts, just as the rest of the groups have them... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u61	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARINE OF THE BLANK SEA GARRID, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DELIVERY OF THE 'Archive OF STATE' BY THE FRANCES AUTHORITIES TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00549]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u62	Questions now to the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, a question from Mrs Maria del Mar Blanco Garrido, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the ETA archive, also known as 'living memory operation', in tribute to those who never wanted to become heroes of our democracy, is already in Spain the result of an important joint work between the judicial authorities and also between the Ministries of Justice and Interior of Spain and France, but also of the firm commitment that our President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, has always maintained, with the memory, dignity and justice of each and every one of the victims of terrorism. The material submitted has two important objectives to achieve. The first is to enhance the investigation of more than 300 ETA crimes without a court ruling. In this sense, ETA's archive becomes, without a doubt, the hope of many families to put an end to the terrible anguish they feel about not knowing today who the killers of their family members were, and it is that a democratic society like ours cannot be allowed to write the last page of the history of terror lived for more than five decades either with ink of impunity or with lies, because the end of terrorism can never be sustained either in the impunity of the killers or in the injustice to the victims. And in this line, the second of the objectives to be achieved is also essential when it comes to helping to dignify the memory of the victims through numerous documents that highlight the Mafia and totalitarian strategies followed by ETA, allowing further visualization of the scope of terrorist barbarism. Undoubtedly, all these documents will be very useful in the construction of this true account of the facts; a story without equidistance or manipulation based on old stories of conflicts that seek to legitimize their history of terror; a story that speaks of winners and losers, and a story where, of course, they have no photographs of shame, like the one we unfortunately lived a few days ago in Andoain. Because a country that has suffered from the outbreak of terrorism cannot accept or tolerate that terrorists are received and applauded as heroes, that terrorists are received and applauded as heroes who helped to kill innocent citizens. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is the Government's assessment of the delivery of the ETA file by the French authorities to the Government of Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u64	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u65	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, it certainly represents a positive assessment of the agreement that was reached with the French Government to ensure that what is known as the 'ETA archive' would return to Spain, and that it would come so that precisely the objectives that you have described in the two paragraphs that you have just described in your question would be met. It is an unprecedented operation from the point of view of the European field of security and justice, but it is also a very important boost in police and judicial cooperation mechanisms. It is true that close collaboration from the political perspective and from the judicial and police perspective has meant the operational defeat of ETA, and for us to continue in that line, it is positive that we are already working on its ordination for two weeks, when came what is known as the 'ETA archive'. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 40 000 sheets of paper have come from France, in addition to all the documents that have been handed over by computer. More than 300 weapons - or some of them - are currently being analyzed by the forensic services from the point of view of their ballistic analysis. Once we have ordered all the documents, once they are analysed and all the weapons delivered have also been analysed, they will be exposed, first, to the victims of terrorism so that they know what the contents of the reports have been, while also serving us to advance in clarifying the facts that remain to be discovered. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that this Government is committed to the ongoing investigation of all cases that have not been discovered because it is a commitment to maintaining the dignity, truth, justice and memory that the victims of terrorism are claiming. These are the commitments we have made and we are sure that they will undoubtedly be a major step forward in this clarification. Once everything is classified, it will be part of that great archive that is the Memorial Center of Victims of Terrorism in Vitoria and there will be available so that the story can never be confused: that there have been victims and that there have been executioners. That is the commitment of the President of the Government, it is the commitment of the Government of Spain to the dignity, truth, justice and memory that the victims of terrorism are claiming and that once and for all... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u66	Thank you very much. - OF MR. CARMEN NAVARRO LACOBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF BILATERAL RELATIONS IN SAFETY BETWEEN SPAIN AND MAURITANIA? [[File number 180/00550]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u67	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior of Mrs Carmen Navarro Lacoba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. Following the meeting held on 12 February with the Prime Minister of Mauritania, the People's Parliamentary Group wishes to echo the model cooperation between the two States, Spain and Mauritania, in the area of security, particularly in the fight against irregular immigration and against networks trafficking in human beings. A good example of this is that since 2016 no boat has arrived in the Canary Islands from Mauritania. That loyal and committed collaboration that they maintain in this matter has also earned them the admiration of the European Union, a decisive fact in ensuring that it has a presence in Mauritania and other African countries in the region working from the outset on the problem of irregular immigration, although we know that we are also working in other areas of security that are equally of concern to the Spaniards, such as the fight against jihadist terrorism, not only in Mauritania but in all the countries of the Sahel and West Africa and that this has allowed more than eighty-nine people to be arrested in sixty-one operations in 2017. This magnificent cooperation carried out by the Ministries of the Interior of Spain and Mauritania has also seen its fruits in the fight against organized crime and drug trafficking through the exchange of information between the two countries. The People's Parliamentary Group also wishes to highlight the role played in this case by the members of the Spanish Civil Guard and the Spanish National Police working in Mauritania as an indispensable instrument for bilateral cooperation to be a success and to provide their training, thus also allowing joint research and work teams to be set up to ensure the success of these operations. For this reason, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, we congratulate you, Minister, on this work and would be grateful if you could give us more details of the Government's assessment of the bilateral security relations between Spain and Mauritania. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u69	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u70	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Navarro, there is no doubt that the Government's assessment of relations with Mauritania is a highly positive one. It should be noted that since 2008 bilateral cooperation between the Kingdom of Spain and Mauritania has been highly close and satisfactory. Bilateral relations have been so intense that they have made it possible to set an example throughout the European Union. But, in addition to bilateral relations, we also maintain multilateral relations that are the result of the example that has meant the consequences of such bilateral relations. [[Rumors]] Spain is currently leading three projects in the Sahel that are funded with European funds: the KSAR project, the Blue Sahel project and the Garsi Sahel project. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u72	But, above all, the bilateral relations that began with the fight against irregular immigration gave way to the expansion in successive years to other forms of collaboration: collaboration in the fight against terrorism, especially against jihadist terrorism; the fight against organized crime and also against drug gangs. That was the collaboration. And the purpose I was pursuing with the last trip was to interview the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior in order to strengthen ties and also to see how the devices and quotas we have there can be improved. We have visited the offices we have both police and civilian guards, together with Mauritanian police services, and we have checked how borders are being sealed. It is worth noting that since 2016 no cayuco has entered the Canary Islands from Mauritania, and in addition we have obtained at the last plenary session the final approval of the convention that was pending ratification. That is the line of collaboration, to which will also be added the intense sharing of all the information that will allow us to deepen the struggle that I have mentioned before, not only against irregular immigration, but also against organized crime, against the mafias who traffic in human beings and also against jihadist terrorism. We will continue along this line because it is the bilateral line of collaboration that allows us to contribute to controlling irregular immigration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u73	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED BARANDIARIAN BENITE GIFT, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: DO YOU CONSIDER THAT THE SAFETY OF THE HONDARRIBIA AIRPORTERS IS THE RIGHT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00551]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u74	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Íñigo Barandiaran Benito from the Basque Parliamentary Group Forward, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. Do you consider, Minister, that the safety of users of the airport in Hondarribia is the right one?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u76	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u77	Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, in the area of security, the airport of San Sebastián strictly complies with all applicable legislation both in the operational security part, in safety, and in the area of security and the prevention of illegal acts, security, and so the safety of users is guaranteed at all times. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u78	Thank you very much. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Believe me, Minister, my question comes from concern. Look, the headline of the top newspaper in Guipúzcoa, this weekend said: Firefighters to scare birds at the airport; fact that has also endorsed us the trade union section of the airport of Hondarribia. The point is that for a long time, especially since a major incident occurred in 2005, precisely as a result of the impact of birds on an aircraft, the wildlife prevention service was established, as in other airports, which consists in the hiring of what are called hawks; this goes from hawks, Minister. This is a specialized and suitable natural resource as the presence of raptors always tends to drive away the presence of other birds in the vicinity of airports. The risk at Hondarribia airport materialized in 2005 and 2009, when a flock of seagulls struck that caused more than 50 birds to spread across the runway and others through the darsena. The point is that today, however, and despite the fact that the Hondarribia airport has more than 300,000 passengers, it seems to be the only airport where not all the time band is covered by this service of hawkers or wildlife prevention. Instead, as we have been told, what happens is that the fire department is responsible for carrying out this activity in the following way: the fire truck has to circulate along the runway at the time when there is going to be a landing or take-off, and there with its means, that is, with the siren, with a megaphone and with a fire gun, it has to drive away the hypothetical birds that are in that space. The firefighters themselves warn us that this situation is inadequate, they are also not prepared, although in their RPT they do figure that they have the service of prevention of fauna but for what they do not have any form of formation. [[Rumors]] That is why, Minister, that is our concern. We understand that the restrictions on the recruitment of the wildlife prevention service, which have meant that not all slots are covered by this activity by hawks, pose not only a risk but a very serious risk that has already materialized in two years, in 2005 and 2009, where only the expertise of pilots has prevented serious accidents. We want solutions. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u80	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, I do not share your assertions about the very serious risk this airport has, but quite the contrary. See, in operational security this airport obtained the aerodrome certificate in accordance with EU regulations on 15 December, validating all facilities, systems, equipment, services and procedures, including the wildlife control system that the airport has, an outsourced wildlife control system as they have other twenty-seven airports in our country; therefore, the airport has the highest possible levels of safety. As for the fitting part of the track to get certification, we also performed, as you know, in relation to the creation of extreme security areas, maintaining the levels of operation through slotting, an action that we ended in December, and also ensuring connectivity through different investments that have managed to maintain adequate levels of service. But as far as wildlife control is concerned, each airport carries out a wildlife control according to the established risk and is audited, and this is very important, and validated by EASA, by the State Aviation Safety Agency. It is therefore not true that there is no wildlife control in the operating hours. Wildlife control is carried out throughout the operating hours. Sometimes it will be done, as you say, with the halconero and others with control that realizes personally AENA, which is prepared to be able to do so and you mention some methods - as you have mentioned -: flashlights, laser repellents and sound repellents, which are perfectly also valid, in addition to the use of the corresponding halcons. By the way, when the airport was audited and validated in 2016 it had already designed this system. And I want to tell you that EASA regularly audits the various airports; it has just audited, has just done the last follow-up last month and has reviewed all the security systems without any problems. So...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u82	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN MENA ARCA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO USE 155 TO CHANGE THE EDUCATIONAL MODEL IN CATALUNE? [[File number 180/00536]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u83	We turn to the questions addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Firstly, the question of Mr Joan Mena Arca, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Does your Government intend to use the application of article 155 of the Constitution to change the educational model in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your question and wording reveal a profound lack of knowledge of the rule of law. Neither this Government nor any one can change the educational model of any autonomous community, with 155 or without it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Mena Arca, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u88	Minister, listen more to the Spanish speakers that we are now bilingual thanks to the Catalan educational model and not so much to their party colleagues, who have not stepped into a public school in their lives. [[Applauds]] I invite you to leave your noble world and visit the public school in my neighborhood, Torre-romeu, in Sabadell, and you will see how the children of the workers we continue to be most interested in maintaining this model. Anyone would say, minister, that you were stunned after the slap that the Constitutional Court gave you yesterday because it is no longer just Catalan society, trade unions and ampas, it is no longer just this Congress, but it is your Constitutional Court that has taken away their colors and told them to leave our educational model in peace. You should assume responsibilities after placing families in legal uncertainty. This tremor comes from afar and on Monday we saw how they spent the day contradicting each other. Minister Montserrat said there would be a box, you said you didn't know it and Mr. Married talking about administrative measures. It is already sad that those who hold the government do not have any plans to face the challenges that Spain has today, but it is ridiculous when we are talking about an initiative that is the result of a problem that you have invented and that no one but you and your friends of Citizens support in Catalonia. That is why I ask you again, Minister, and please answer me: Are you going, yes or no, to impose a box for linguistic segregation? Yes or no, Minister? It is not right, as you have done, to throw the stone and hide your hand because we Catalans deserve to know if they are going to try to overthrow one of the main pillars of our country's social cohesion. Therefore, taking advantage of article 155 to impose through the back door the segregation box is illegitimate, classist, exclusionary and designed to divide. I do not want, minister, a box that makes me choose between El Quixote and Tirant lo Blanche, between La Celestina and La Colometa. The mixed and plural Catalonia and the living and plurinational Spain do not deserve... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u89	Minister, go ahead. And I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u90	Your Honor, I thought it was clear enough in my first speech. An educational model in a country depends first on its Constitution, after the statute of autonomy, after the basic general law of that country, which in this case is LOE and Lomce, and after the law of the Parliament of Catalonia in this case. This happens in Catalonia and in any autonomous community, Your Honor, and the important thing is that this system continues, but that it is also implemented, as well as the judgments of the courts, because, when there is a discrepancy between administrations, in the end we have to take it to the courts, which are the ones who decide who is right and to what extent. What happens in Catalonia, Your Honor, is that the courts have decided in numerous judgments, the Constitutional Court, which they seem to like today. You have said your Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court is of all, of all, Your Honor, and the judgments are all valid. You can't say we like it only when we're right and if not, no. [[Laughter]] Do not laugh, because that is democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and not only when it benefits you. [[Applauds]] Let me get on with it. We will respect and abide by the sentences, but we must comply with them. We will comply with this, but the Education Administration must also comply with those judgments which say that the Spanish language is a vehicle language and that it must be taught in a reasonable proportion and that reasonable proportion which they establish, Your Honor. I don't see why you're against that, because that's giving everyone rights and treating everyone equally. That is the important thing, that languages serve to know us, to enrich us, to speak and not to use them as a political instrument. [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] I'm worried about UP...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u91	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Mayor... [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] Yes, I tell you and I will continue because, please, I beg you to remain silent. When the speaker speaks, this moment or any other, you have to listen to him and then you have an answer to everything, but when you have the floor. Thank you very much. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u92	I was saying, Your Honor, that what worries me about UP is that in the end his speech is very similar to that of the independenceists. They begin by saying that they are not and end up embracing exactly the same causes and that, Your Honor, is not good. You have to have a little political personality and not always come with the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK GUARANTEE THAT CASTELLANO IS VEHICULAR LANGUAGE TO CATALAN FROM THE 2018/2019 COURSE IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND CATALUNE CONCERTED? [[File number 180/00554]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u94	He also asked the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u95	Minister, the Supreme Court established at the time that Spanish must be a vehicle language in at least 25% of school hours in Catalan schools and that it is not legal for the language care system to be individualised by discrimination. The Constitutional Court has just gone ahead with that shameful patch of the PP Act, by which the Government actually did not apply the law. How do you intend this time to ensure that Spanish is also a vehicle language in the public and concerted schools of Catalonia in the 2018-2019 course? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u96	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u97	As is done in a rule of law, Your Honor, respecting the legal order and judgments of the courts.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u99	The Government's obligation, beyond the grace of its response, is to comply with the law and the judgments of the courts, which have not done so in thirty-five years, it is not optional. [[Applauds]] Heed the voices that tell him that indoctrination is isolated cases in Catalonia, heed the voices that tell him that there is a social consensus on immersion in Catalonia because it is false. The social consensus in Catalonia is about linguistic plurality and is not said by the representative of fourteen parties that have won eight seats, but by the representative of the party that has won the elections in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Immersion is a class model that only affects those who cannot afford a private school; those who can choose trilingualism. The PP has ruled by absolute majority and has done nothing to enforce the law and the sentences, and neither has the Socialist Party, by the way. We do not just hope that they will begin to fulfill what they have not accomplished so far, but if they decide to change their minds, they will count on us. Now, do not think for a moment that without the high linguistic inspection and without the Spanish language as a vehicle throughout Spain, together with the co-official languages, you will have a national pact for education. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u100	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you spoke of the embarrassing patch. It will seem good or bad to you, but it was a courageous attitude that the Government had to solve a problem. Yes, Your Honor, the Constitutional Court will decide whatever it wants to decide, it will decide. You say: You didn't do anything! Yeah. You, ladies and gentlemen, all you do is criticize or tweet, but you do absolutely nothing else. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] I'll explain it to you, Your Honor. I was in Brussels the other day and it was very hard for me to convince a journalist that Mr Puigdemont had not won the elections. You know why? Because you don't exist. [[Rumors]] You have won the elections and disappeared from Catalonia. [[Applause.- Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group show four fingers at hand]] The PP has put forward a proposal in the Catalan Parliament... don't get nervous, don't get nervous, ladies and gentlemen, let me talk. [[Rumors]] Where are you? What are you guys doing? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u102	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u103	They say, 'Put your hands together!' But where do I see your initiatives, ladies and gentlemen? No, I'm going to be fair to you, I said you didn't do anything and it's not true, you did, yes. Do you know what they've done? Deny a Member so that the People's Parliamentary Group can be a parliamentary group. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's what they've done so there won't be another constitutional voice, Your Honor. That's what they've done. Your Honor, this is an important issue for all, not only in Catalonia, but in the rest of the autonomous communities with co-official languages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u104	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u105	We are therefore currently in a social and political state pact for education. [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group make affirmative signs with their heads]] Yes, yes, you say yes, but you do nothing and neither do you make any proposals in the pact. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u106	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u107	Your Honor, a lot of tweets, a lot of tweets and a lot of talking, but little doing. You know why? Because you have no government responsibilities anywhere and in the end that forces you to talk a lot and tweet more. Proposals, ladies and gentlemen, proposals! If it was useful to vote for you in Catalonia, as you said, we are now seeing that it is not useful at all because things do not change. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to change things, and we want to change things, the Sub-Commission on the Education Pact is a good place to do it. In the meantime, Your Honor, we will continue to uphold the principles that we have always defended, implementing those principles that we have always defended... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u108	Thank you very much. - OF THE JORDI SAVER'S DEVELOPED I duch, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Cyprus, which forms the Government: SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES PLANNING TO ESTABLISH THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO AVAIL THE STUDIES RECALLED IN THE PARLIAMENTARY MANDATE OF 14 FEBRUARY 2018 FOR THE DISAMINATION OF THE CASTOR PLATFORM? [[File number 180/00544]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u109	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda. Question by Mr Jordi Salvador i Duch, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u110	Good morning. As you know, a few days ago in the Energy Commission Congress approved with the vote of all the parliamentary groups, - all the parliamentary groups, the People's Party did not vote against - a non-law proposal by Esquerra Republicana calling for the dismantling of this monster called Castor that we have on the shores of the Maestrat and the Terres de l'Ebre. This approval has created a great expectation on our lands and the question is very concrete: what timetable of actions does the Government intend to establish to dismantle the Castor platform with guarantees? And two, what studies do you have in charge of this? If there are, because we don't know. For when your results? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u111	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Salvador, ladies and gentlemen, I think you agree with me that one of the many mistakes that the Socialist Government made in energy policy was the Castor project - a government that you supported parliamentaryly - and since then - because this is a situation inherited by the governments of the People's Party - we have had to deal with the Castor, a project that was too big, too expensive and that above it had such a serious design failure that it caused all the problems that it caused. We were careful, we've always been careful. We were cautious when we asked for the leniency of both the contract and the rules that upheld it. We asked the Supreme Court, but we couldn't have it. We were cautious when we ordered to hibernate the Beaver when seismic movements began. We also went with the form of payment to avoid a problem of financial failure not only of the project, but of the whole Spanish Treasury, which was the one that endorsed it with the EIB, and then there was a subsequent ruling of the Constitutional Court. We were cautious in calling for a report from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which has endorsed the thesis - which was quite reasonable - that the gas injection was what produced the seismic movements and, for the same reason, the Government announced that the Castor would never be used again. And now we are going to be cautious because we have been told that we have to wait for the gas to settle properly, we have to do a series of technical studies. This is not political, it's doing things right and prudently, it's letting technicians work, I think we should let technicians work. I tell you honestly, let us not make a policy of what has to be a technical solution because I believe that in this you and I will agree quite more than with other groups that have voted with you and that are the cause of the Castor disaster. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Salvador i Duch, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u114	We can agree if you don't lie, Minister. First lie, we have never supported the Castor warehouse. Already in 2007 - I insist, already in 2007 - we ask you to stop, do not want you to look for things that are not. Secondly, I am not telling you about MIT, I am telling you what you said in the Energy Committee - which is also in the Journal of Sessions, on page 27-: 'Does anyone want to take out... without taking the precautions, without doing the proper studies and without seeing that the fault has been properly settled...', etc.? That is, you yourself acknowledge - and so it is written - that studies are not done. We ask you to tell us specifically what timetable they have, when these studies are to be completed, who has been entrusted with them, we ask you to begin to have some transparency. Have you spoken to MIT? Is MIT going to do another study again? That's what we want. Secondly - and this is not contemplated - we have looked for contrasting studies elsewhere and not only at MIT and we know that there are hundreds of gas wells that are being sealed in a way to solve the much cheaper and immediate problem. Have you asked for these alternative studies to evaluate the sealing option instead of removing the gas only? Because it seems to me that the gas is never going to be able to take off again, but it can be sealed. What we simply ask you once and for all is that non-law proposal, that we do not frustrate citizens, that you tell us a calendar, what studies you have claimed, what contrasts you have. Please be transparent at once so as not to follow what - you are really right - the other government did. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u116	I told you before, Mr Salvador, I think we agree that Castor must be dismantled and we agree that such projects cannot be made again. We also agree that it is necessary to do so in the best possible way to avoid any kind of risk to the surrounding populations and that there are no additional problems to those that have already been. We agree perfectly with that. I do not think it is a question of doing something political about this, of putting pressure on the government, or of being reckless. It is not a question of wanting to take a political leader before we have the proper analysis. Enagas is constantly watching Castor, that's clear. When the technicians start telling us that we already have a chance to dismantle it, we will. There is no doubt about that. Now, let's not make this a political issue, let the engineers, who know about this, and the geologists... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u117	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DEPARTMENTAL GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMAND IN MARIA, WHICH FORMS THE LORD VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO TO ARRANGE THE ENORMOUS CONCERN OF CLIMATE CHANGE, AS AND AS EXERCISE TO MAKE THE LAST BORRATOR OF THE KNOWN REPORT OF THE INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL OF CLIMATE CHANGE OF THE UNITED NATIONS? [[File number 180/00556]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u118	Questions now to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Firstly, question by Mrs Eva García Sempere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u119	Thank you, President. Minister, what does the Government intend to do to greatly accelerate the fight against climate change, as it calls for the last known draft report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u121	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I thank you for your question, which enables me to reaffirm this Government's commitment to combating climate change. Spain already meets its objectives, but we will continue to work to remain a benchmark. Spain, together with our European partners, is a global leader against climate change. Spain, in particular, fulfils a further 10% of its mitigation commitments. We are committed to adaptation, climate finance and also to mobilizing the private sector and civil society. The fight against climate change is a global issue, which certainly needs everyone's effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Sempere, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. I think we live in different countries or we have different conceptions. Firstly, because the Paris Agreement is clearly insufficient. What the last draft says is that, if we continue like this, we will exceed 2 degrees with respect to the pre-industrial era and that means dramatic scenarios that we will not solve. I will remind you a little bit of what this government is really doing. They do not meet the targets set for 2020, because we know that they will not be met. They are delaying the presentation of the climate change law. The commitment will be very great, but we only have headlines. They're blocking self-consumption. They've stopped the energy transition. You know what they do? Financing fossil fuels with 1 billion. But we keep going. The decline in greenhouse gases in diffuse sectors such as transport and agriculture is irritating. Of course they do, because they have done a legal maneuver that allows them to put the reference for mitigation in 2005 and then it can be fulfilled. But there's more. With Europe, he says that they are working; indeed, they are fulfilling the commitments of the Paris Agreement, which we recall are already insufficient. They have allyed in Europe with the countries most reluctant to the energy transition. We have no date to abandon the use of coal. We are not going to comply with the 40% reduction agreements over the 1990s and we are not going to have 35% renewable energy production by 2030. All this will mean that everything that is already happening with regard to climate change will be even worse. You will not have decrees for drought and to address the problem of agriculture in this country; we will miss them. We will not have the capacity to address the problem of the tourism sector, which is the crown jewel of its productive model. We will have more fires; let's remember Galicia, Asturias, Andalusia or Castile and León. Not to mention the impacts on health and education, closing schools before time. Unfortunately, the government you represent leads us to the worst possible scenario.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u125	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it would take a lot of time to get them out of their huge misconceptions, but I prefer to focus on a specific point today. Without interconnections, there is no possible development of renewable energy sources and, without that, the fight against climate change is very difficult. We have managed to get around EUR 600 million earmarked for a new electricity interconnection between Spain and France that will take place in the Gulf of Biscay and you and your confluences, together with Citizens, are trying to throw down the results of an intense negotiation work that has been carried out by the Government and that will have great environmental and economic value for our country. Your Honor, with your party's vote against today in the European Parliament on the list of projects of common interest presented in Brussels, you are trying to prevent an investment of hundreds of millions of euros with huge benefits for our country and for the care of the environment. They are preventing further integration of the Iberian Peninsula into the internal electricity market, which will increase the interconnection capacity between Spain and France to 5000 megawatts and, as the Commissioner for Energy and Climate Action has said, will end the isolation of the Iberian Peninsula from the rest of the European energy market. That is why you are putting the development of renewable energy sources at risk, which is essential in order to meet the important objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. All this is being done by you in the European Parliament today. If you really have a minimum commitment to climate change, do not prevent today in the European Parliament the measures that we have achieved with so much effort for the benefit of all Spaniards and our environment, because I remind you, Your Honor, that the fight against climate change is global and requires the effort and support of all, and today in the European Parliament you stand against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, CAN WE COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT ON TOXICS IN FERTILIZERS IN THE AREA OF THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[File number 180/00555]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u126	Question also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment of Mr Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u127	Thank you, Madam President. What role have you played in the Fertiberia scandal?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u128	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the position of the Ministry for all kinds of rules that may have an effect on the environment and on health will always be based, from the Ministry and from the Government, on scientific knowledge backed, always, by reports issued by bodies of recognized prestige. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u131	Pneumonitis, emphysema, chronic renal failure, osteomalacia, spontaneous fractures, you know, minister? These are the consequences of excess cadmium in the human body; these are the consequences of the toxic fertilizers that you sponsor. Madam Minister, we know that you are the minister you read best, but today we demand answers. Let's go with the case. Risks to public health, phosphates that are poison, revolving doors, bribes and corruption. I do not say this; it is said by the European Commissioner: cadmium is a highly toxic product that can have serious and irreversible effects on people's health. Phosphate fertilizers are the main source of contamination. And why are you doing this? Why do you paralyse these regulations against the European Commission's approach, against the European Parliament's approach and against the health of millions of people? Well, precisely because he does it in favor of the one who paid him and the one who's going to pay him back, probably. I'll explain it to you, it's your resume. Year 2000, Secretary General of Agriculture; year 2004, Director of Fertilizer Planning; later, Counsellor of Fertial; year 2014, Minister of Agriculture. It does not take much imagination: it enters and exits from the ministry and from Fertiberia, from the ministry and from Fertiberia; and - oh miracle! - the ministry that you direct paralyzes all actions against the companies that you run. [[Applauds]] Stops files against the largest toxic waste dump in Europe, in Huelva. Stops cases against Fertial for a file opened at the National Court for the payment, verified, of $2 million in bribes to Algerian military personnel. And finally, it slows down and blocks the rules to reduce cadmium within the European Union. Is it not a crime to stop so many files, Minister? You are Villar Mir's infiltrator at the Council of the European Union. And not content with Fertiberia, it turns out that it has more than 155 000 euros in shares in companies in the branch of its own ministry. It's a damn scandal, Minister. They trade with money in B, they trade with phosphates, and now we know they trade with the health of the citizenry. I'm just asking you to answer two questions. First of all, who do you work for? Secondly, are you and your rotating doors poisoning the entire citizenry? He corrupts himself, poisons us... If I had democratic shame, I'd resign immediately. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u133	Your Honor, your disinterest in farmers is so great, you live so hard in rural areas that sometimes you don't even seem to know what you're talking about. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Spain has remained in the same position since 2009 on fertilizer thresholds, when we were not yet in the Government. We share our position with countries such as France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Ireland, with the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, with the body representing farmers in the European Union, the Copa-Cogeca. You do a lot of damage to farmers with your frivolities. Our position is technically and scientifically supported and endorsed by the Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Safety and Nutrition, the National Institute for Agricultural and Food Research and Technology and the European Commission, which indicate that there is no risk to human health or the environment. Your Honor, what you are defending is enormously damaging to the Spanish and European farmer, whom we are defending; who I work for, if you ask me, and we are doing so by directing them towards a more sustainable agriculture. [[Applauds]] But what you are proposing, Your Honor, is to promote the monopoly of phosphorus worldwide; that is, to increase a basic nutrient for crops and for the production of all farmers at the cost of the pocket of Spanish farmers. You are going against Spanish agriculture again, you are going against the rural environment again. But we will continue to defend sustainable, productive agriculture, generating well-being and wealth in rural, innovative and cutting-edge agriculture at the international level, which provides healthy food to everyone. You continue against the rural environment, you continue against the farmers, you continue to disregard the potential and the freedom of production of the Spanish agricultural sector and the opportunities of the global market, which you do not believe in, but please be minimally responsible; you do not create social alarms with issues that can harm all Spanish and European farmers; that are neither technically nor scientifically nor environmentally sound. You are doing enormous damage, once again, to Spanish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u134	Thank you very much. - OF THE MARY DIRECTOR OF CARMEN QUINTANILLA BARBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT ACTIVITIES PRIORIZED THE FIRST NATIONAL STRATEGY OF ADICTIONS 2017-2024, APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS ON FEBRUARY 9? [[File number 180/00548]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u135	She is now asking the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by María del Carmen Quintanilla Barba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, seventeen years ago Spain approved the first National Drug Plan. Over the years, our country has been exemplary and active in combating addictions that affect a significant percentage of our young people. Spain has been and is an international reference in the treatment and approach of the fight against drugs and other addictions. That is why we have reduced 50% of deaths in industrial accidents, as well as 11% in road accidents, as a result of alcohol or other drug use. However, today in this new society we face other new addictions. We see how our young people under seventeen years of age abuse alcohol every weekend - once a month they get intoxicated in Spain 500,000 minors and 6000 ethyl comas have occurred in 2016 - and that must be combated. We also see how our young people, abusively, take the new technologies: online gambling, cyber-radiation -130,000 students have confessed to having played money through gambling - and we cannot forget the hypnosedants. There are 3,700,000 people who use hypnosedants in Spain, 65% of whom are women. That is why the Government, led by you, in the Council of Ministers, approved the first national strategy against addictions. Minister, I ask you: What steps is this national strategy going to take to combat addictions in Spain? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u138	Thank you, President. Your Honor, our country is a pioneer in the treatment and approach of addictions and we have broad international recognition thanks to our national strategies. In Spain the first national strategy, the Strategy 2000-2008, was approved with a Government of the People's Party; the second, the National Strategy 2009-2016, was approved by the Socialist Government, and the results of these two strategies have been positive: we have decreased the number of people who use drugs in Spain and have decreased the mortality linked to their consumption - therefore, saving lives - but we must continue to work. Therefore, from the government we have approved the third National Strategy 2017-2024. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u139	Quiet. Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u140	With this national strategy we turn the national drug strategy into a new national drug addiction strategy, because it is aimed primarily at combating any form of addiction and includes for the first time in our history actions against addictions to new technologies, online gambling and video games. Another novelty is that we have incorporated comprehensive care for people over the age of sixty-four who were victims of the 1980s heroin epidemic. It is a strategy that has had the unanimous consensus of all the autonomous communities, of the Spanish Council of Drugs and other Addictions and the involvement of more than 400 organizations and experts. It is a strategy focused on three main axes, but above all it is a strategy that places us at the top of the European countries and that incorporates all the addictions in a single strategy. The first axis is the protection of our minors. Our goal is that minors do not consume any kind of drugs and, therefore, we are working, as you know, on alcohol, because we want to get zero alcohol consumption in minors. Hence the importance of promoting the adoption of a law on alcohol-free children, in which I hope to reach the consensus of this House. The second important axis is the addictions to new technologies and, therefore, the compulsive and impulsive use of social networks. The success in overcoming this is not in our young people abandoning the use of networks, but in learning to use them better and responsibly. The third axis is women. In consumer situations, women often delay their treatment by facing more difficulties in finding invisible barriers to access, care and social inclusion. Therefore, we are working to combat any kind of addiction. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u141	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTER FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE EUROPEAN OBJECTIVES IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT? [[File number 180/00539]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u142	Questions now to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. He asked first of all for Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u143	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. President Rajoy just came to the government made clear his intentions regarding the Ministry of Science, emptying it, making it disappear and devoting its powers to the Ministry of Economy. We know that you were not responsible for that decision, but you were responsible for these last six years of management. That is why I ask you: How does the government intend to meet the European objectives in science and research?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u144	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, as you know, the European Union set the target for investment in R & D in 2020 at 3%. The target has already been set in 2010 and in two years' time, unfortunately, we will not achieve it either. What the government has done has been a realism exercise by including a 2% target in the strategy by 2020. We continue to make efforts to fulfil this commitment. Recently, the INE has indicated that expenditure on R & D+i has increased to EUR 13 260 million in 2016: 27.5 % of the total in universities and 18.5 % in public administrations; however, taking into account the increase in GDP, the ratio has fallen by almost 3 cents compared to 2015. This is explained, first of all, by the strong expansion of the economy; secondly, because there was an autonomous community in which R & D spending fell a lot and, lastly, it should be remembered that 2016 was an atypical year, since the government was in office and we were practically budgetaryly closed all year round. However, we will continue to work in the future to improve these results. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u147	Thank you. Minister, while the average investment in R & D in the European Union was growing by 25% to 2.3%, Spain was falling, as you said, leaving it at 1.19 % of GDP. This means that we have gone back a decade, Minister; we are now in 2007 - a decade! - and that is your responsibility. It has recognised that the European objective of reaching 3% is impossible, impossible and unattainable, and in that we agree, but not only do they not invest, but they also do not implement what is planned to be implemented, which is budgeted. In 2016 they stopped running 62%. Nor have they been able to stimulate private investment that has been declining since 2011 and now is half of what the European Union is investing. Countries that invest the most in R & D are those that enjoy the highest levels of wealth and economic strength, those that best withstand economic crises. Do you know why, Minister? Because there is a direct relationship between R & D investment and productivity growth. This means better wages and better jobs. However, its economic model is and has always been - and we have been denouncing it for a long time - increasing productivity through the precariousness of employment, the adjustment of staffing and, above all, the fall in wages. This is an unfair model, it is an unsustainable model and it is also a model that condemns us and condemns the future of our country. That is why we are proposing a country agreement so that in 2020 we will, as you said, reach 2% of GDP in investment and 2.5% in the State's General Budgets so that science is a real priority and that our researchers will return, because it is other countries that are being enriched precisely by this economic exile to which you have condemned our scientists and researchers; to rescue science and research, because where we invest the most in it is where there is better employment, as you said, better wages and, lastly, for there to be a future, because you have secured your future, but what we need is to secure the future of the country, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u148	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the most important thing to start recovering R & D spending in the public sector is that the 2018 budgets are approved. You support the budgets and have no doubt that there will be major items and increases in them. [[Applauds]] Moreover, as you are well aware, Your Honor, Spain's fundamental problem is not so much public sector R & D expenditure; in May 2010 you had to carry out a very important cut in this item as a result of the vulnerability of Spanish public accounts, such as the lack of R & D in the private sector. There has been a change there, it has improved during the year 2016, despite the difficulties we have had. Of course, the Government is, and you know very well that it has always shown willingness to do so, to reach agreement on the subject of science. The subject of science has always been a State policy and this State policy must continue in the future. In Spain productivity is increasing and is doing so fundamentally because instead of investing in construction we are investing in other issues. You look at the data, for example, on foreign trade, which has just been published, and you will see that the average and high technological component of Spanish exports is increasingly going beyond what was usual and growing, so that more and more exporting and innovative companies are exporting. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u150	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF ECONOMICS, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMICS, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO SOLUTION PRECARIEDITY IN INVESTIGATION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00540]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u151	Question by Mrs Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u152	Minister, what is your Government going to do to solve the precariousness of research in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u153	Thank you very much. Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. The fundamental element of science policy is undoubtedly researchers, and in this there is nothing like strengthening staff and improving their working conditions. On the first issue, I would like to remind you that science was not affected by the freezing of the public offer of employment and was one of the first sectors to recover one hundred per cent of the replacement rate. In fact, thanks to the effort made by the public research bodies, they have almost recovered all the places lost during the crisis. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u155	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Please take your seats. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u156	According to the INE, the R & D staff increased last year in more than 5000 people, and the vast majority were 4000 researchers. With regard to quality in employment, we are aware that the levels of temporality are higher than desirable. That is why we have taken measures such as the legal amendment adopted at the end of last year to solve the problem of researchers, who have somehow been chaining temporary contracts for more than three years. Despite a great deal of information, I can assure you that neither the National Center for Cardiovascular Research nor the National Center for Oncological Research have had to fire any investigator. We also continue to work on other measures to stabilize temporary jobs in our IPRs, consortia and foundations. If you really care about the situation of researchers, what I said to you before: get back to supporting the State's General Budgets; there we will certainly include measures to stabilize employment in the science sector. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alconchel, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u158	Minister, you are leaving and leaving an absolutely desolating balance in our science system. A terrible management that has boosted the scientific and research career of many talented young people in our country. During the crisis, advanced countries have increased their R & D budget. Spain has gone back a decade: we have lost more than 37,000 scientists trained in Spain and more than 90,000 jobs destroyed. The action of your Government has forced a massive exodus of talent formed in our country, but you call that mobility and it is not; it is not mobility, Minister, it is job insecurity, temporaryity and many bureaucratic obstacles to developing your careers. We invest a lot in that talent so that they will then have to abandon their activity. Others have to go abroad, to other countries that do know how to take advantage of their value and excellence, and we all have young researchers in our heads in these circumstances. Research projects of great social importance in the fields of energy, safety, climate change and health are abandoned. Do you know that more than 73% of the talent outside would return to Spain if they offered them decent work opportunities? Do you really think this country can afford this waste? I am now talking about those who are staying, people who after many years of professional career, awards, publications, are earning 1000 euros or less; and worst of all, they are concatenating temporary contracts: one after another. Is this fair? Do you think it's normal? If we talk about his politics for the return of talent, absolute failure, cuts and more cuts. Thus it is impossible to rescue the lost talent. Even the OECD has drawn your attention; you should be ashamed, Minister. You do not believe in science as a pillar of growth in this country, so you place it in a residual way in your ministry. The Socialists are clear that research is key, generates employment, a strong economy and social and economic progress. Minister, since the PSOE we have proposed the country's agreement for science, because we are committed to increased funding to ensure stable careers and the return of up to 10,000 scientists. We will fight against precariousness, against the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u159	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you have given the figure of 37,000 researchers who have come out. Where does that come from, Your Honor? Can you explain it to me? [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you some of the INE, the National Institute of Statistics: There are 5000 more people working in the science sector last year. Your Honor, it is very important - I have said it again - to provide legal certainty for researchers and, for that, a budget needs to be approved. You approve the budget, and there we can include all the measures that you want to propose to us in relation to the stability of these researchers. Obviously, what you cannot do is, on the one hand, criticise us because we do not defend stability and, at the same time, with regard to the instrument we have to implement that stability, you do not support us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u161	Thank you very much. - QUESTION OF THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO CLOSE THE EVIDENT BARE OF GENERATION IN THE SPANISH SYSTEM OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION? [[File number 180/00541]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u162	He also asked the Minister, Mr Óscar Galeano Gracia, of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u163	Minister, what are the government's plans to close the obvious gender gap in the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u164	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, we are fully aware of the gender gap, which harms not only women, but society as a whole, and to put an end to this kind of inequality, the first thing that needs to be done is to have a good X-ray of the situation. That is why the State Secretariat for R & D & I publishes the report, Scientists in Figures, biennially. In the last one, for 2015, there was good news and bad news. On the one hand, the new doctorates were distributed at 50% between men and women, and these already account for 39% of the research staff, above the European average and almost in equilibrium. On the other hand, it continues to be difficult for women to reach positions of maximum responsibility in universities and public bodies. To address this reality, the Ministry of Economy has planned a number of measures, some already in force, such as the State Roadmap for the development of the European Research Area 2016-2020; the new State Plan for Scientific Research and Innovation; and, lastly, the State Plan for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women 2018-2021, whose draft is already well advanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Galeano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u167	Minister, the ineffectiveness of your Government in narrowing the gender gap in our Spanish science and technology system is clear, and unfortunately will be one of your legacy. Please stop announcing this call for forums and working tables and act, because you, Minister, are not carpenters, you are government. - Although, yes, you have made yourself a good seat. The consequences of the full incorporation of women in these technological and scientific sectors are absolutely positive for our country, for example, by ending wage gaps, combating inequality, promoting a more sustainable and just economy. I will comment on some examples that you make of not getting involved in this, for example, the case of the Cesid. Given the inaction and passivity of his Government, the evaluation committees did not meet the requirements of the Equality Act. Another consequence is that women's participation in professions based on digital technologies stands at a poor 18%, when in 2009 it was 22%. International bodies, Minister, are warning them. Women are clearly underrepresented in science, when they are not condemned to ostracism, and are more so as they advance in the scientific career. Because, Minister, there are brilliant references, but they require visibility to act as well as incentives for our girls. Minister, the gender gap in the Spanish science system is unsustainable. In the face of the failure of its government action, the Socialist Party has proposed a country agreement to rescue science, so that researchers or women who work for technical support have the same opportunities as their male colleagues, to ensure that women can develop a research career on an equal footing with men. Minister, put a nice letter to this anthem of science, the scientific community and society as a whole are demanding it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u168	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, we have included gender-based criteria in the calls of doctors, industrialists and Torres Quevedo. We have reviewed the criteria for R+D+i aid calls to take into account, for example, circumstances arising from temporary discharges during pregnancy. Equality plans are also already approved in all IPOs. We have promoted the creation of a network of European projects to disseminate good practices on equality. In addition, coinciding with the International Day of Women and Girls in Science, held on 11 February, the Council of Ministers adopted a declaration in which the Government renewed its commitment to the promotion of women's participation from children in scientific and technological disciplines. Looking ahead, we will develop guidelines that will update the IPOs' own calls, regulations and regulations in order to ensure gender equality, both in the evaluation of candidates for internal recruitment or promotion and in the composition of the evaluation courts and, in addition, we are designing a national gender equality badge for universities and public research centres. On the issue of equality, Your Honor, look at what are the main responsibilities in the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness, where the most responsible posts linked to science - the State Secretariat for R & D, the CSIC or the State Research Agency - are, among others, occupied by women. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DAUGHTER'S WOMEN'S ANA MARIA BOTELLA GOMEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO SUPPORT R & D AND I FOR THE CHANGE OF PRODUCTIVE MODEL? [[File number 180/00542]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u170	He also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness of Mrs Ana María Botella Gómez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u171	Thank you, President. Minister, how does the Government intend to address support for R & D+i, research, development and innovation for the improvement of the productive model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u172	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the change of productive model already has it there. Today you have data, for example - I'm sure you've looked at it - on the industrial output index or last year's closing service index. Industrial production in Spain grew by 8% last year and the number of orders grew above 8. Unlike the previous production model, which needed to increase credit twice as much as GDP growth in order to generate employment, this has changed and we are now able to grow above 3% with de leverage. That has to do with the fact that the investment is no longer dedicated to the brick, Your Honor, as it was ten or twelve years ago; the investment is devoted to other purposes. Spain is today a productive economy and a competitive economy, and that has to do with the change of a productive model. We had never had six years of continuous short-balance-of-payments surplus and our foreign trade grew twice as much as international trade grew. That has to do with the change in the productive model, that's what makes the model sustainable in the future, Your Honor, and that's what makes Spain emerging from the crisis. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Botella.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u175	Minister, I ask you now and in the future, because you already come with the suspended position of what you have done. That change that you announce has not occurred. This is like the General Budgets of the State, which do not stop talking about them and here you have not brought a draft General Budgets of the State, Minister. [[Applauds]] How do you want us to argue? How do you want us to believe there's any change? Minister De Guindos, bank rescue aside, the legacy you leave is devastating and is summed up in one word - I would like to look you in the eye, even though it is through the screen -; the word that sums up your management of these six years is: failure. I would ask you not to insult our intelligence today with triumphalist macroeconomic speeches with which you always come, either in plenary or in the Commission. You are and have been an absent minister, absent from day one, for science, innovation and the Spanish industrial sector; you have orphaned them. So absent that after six years of government Spain suspends on all indicators. I cannot stop at all the statistics, but the President-in-Office of the Government has had it before to deliberately confuse the performance of a programme, H2020, with the performance of a complete innovation system. The European Union has done so and in the last barometer of innovation - statistics that I recommend you to review because there you will see your management balance - Spain ranks 17th of the 28 members of the European Union in results of innovation performance. Our country's English-speaking profile is a moderate innovator, which means we play in the third division of four in the league. We were closer to the European average in 2010 than in 2016, tell President Rajoy. In these six years, Mr De Guindos, everything has fallen: public spending, private spending on R & D, the number of innovative companies, patents, wages have fallen, pensions have fallen, all the less your pay expectations today in the European Central Bank. [[Applauds]] Mr. De Guindos, if you'd cared... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u177	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your kind congratulations on my appointment to the European Central Bank; I know it fills you with satisfaction. [[Laughter]] I say again to you, Your Honor, that six years ago Spain had a second recession during the crisis, destroyed jobs at a rate of 700,000 jobs, we had a situation of loss of competitiveness, a financial sector without any credibility whatsoever. Today the Spanish economy is growing almost fourth to consecutive year above 3%, creating half a million jobs, expectations are completely different and recognising it all, except for you - what we are going to do - but the statistics are there - look at it -: sixth consecutive year of current account surplus and balance of payments, inflation below 1%, intense recovery of employment and, above all, your honor, have laid the groundwork for this growth to continue in the future. The future of the Spanish economy is completely different from that of five or six years ago. Don't give credit to the government, give it to Spanish society, to all Spanish workers and entrepreneurs, but today the Spanish economy is completely different: today we have a future, something we didn't have six years ago. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u179	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness on the situation of the Spanish system of science and innovation. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing I want to do is to greet all the researchers who are following this plenary with attention today. We have some in the gallery, but above all we have them in their labs pending the streaming of Congress, because it is good news for them and for the country that this plenary is talking about science today. [[Mr. Vice-President, Prendes Prendes, takes the Chair.]] Secondly, Minister, I wish you success, my group wishes you success. We hope that it will be more successful than it had in previous banking responsibilities, and we hope that it will not apply the same prescriptions as the European Central Bank. We sincerely wish you success because your success will be good for our country and for Europe, but I must confess, Mr De Guindos, that you are probably one of the people who has made me most happy with this appointment. I was glad because I do not know if you are aware of the damage that has been done in the last six years to the science of this country and, therefore, to Spain from your government and ministry. You have not dealt with or worried about your responsibility, because if you had done so, today we would not have nearly seven years of black legislature for the science system. Rajoy made it very clear what his intention was from the first moment by eliminating the ministry, by cutting budget, by cutting rights, but above all by allowing every decision of the Treasury to take precedence over a country idea based on talent, in knowledge in the face of precariousness. You have been an absent minister, Mrs Botella said, but you have also - Mr Rajoy has done - allowed the decisions to be made by the Treasury, and that has made it possible for us to have a government that has directly persecuted scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, cuts, lack of implementation, the replacement rate, which has been recovering very recently, and precisely because of its bureaucratic obstacles, the previous intervention, the monitoring is not being completely replaced, and there are even the disappearance of calls. Mr Rajoy said this morning that in 2014 there was a clear bet for science; I suppose he will not refer to the increase in credits that have not been executed; perhaps who should go through the laboratories more and talk more with scientists should be Mr Rajoy. We believe it is an opportunity for you to appoint a new Minister of Economics, but above all it would be a great sign for a party like the Socialist, who is constantly reaching out for a great country agreement on science, which will regain a fundamental ministry. [[Applauds]] Why are we here today, Mr. De Guindos? We are here today because we are interested and care about researchers, but above all because we care about our country, because we care about Spain and because you are defining - and you said - the future of this country. They are defining which society we want and which economy we want, and for us the future they have drawn is completely wrong because they are subjecting us to precariousness and job poverty and are frustrating our future, that of an entire society. Because there will only be a future in this country if we are dedicated to fostering talent and knowledge, contrary to what you are doing. That is why the Socialist Party is our priority in the ten axes of the country, and so has our Secretary-General, an agreement for science. That is why we in the Socialist Party are listening and acting, which is what this government should do, listening to the Cossack, the Confederation of Scientific Societies, the OECD, the European reports, the Rio report and, by the way, the Alternatives Foundation. With regard to this fact that you do not know where it comes from, it comes from a report of scientists as prestigious as Mariano Barbacid, Jesús Ávila or Miguel Ángel Quintanilla, by the way, independent. If you heard more, you would realize that the Socialists since 2011 have been reaching out for a great country agreement, an agreement that we managed to sign in this House in 2013 with all the political parties - something that was unheard of - less with the People's Party and that we believe today is urgent. And if we believe that a science agreement is urgent, it is precisely to vaccinate us from governments like this, which took us ten years ago, which has driven us out of talent and which has driven us away from Europe with every measure day after day. [[Applauds]] Minister, you come here and you talk to us about data that are not credible and that besides the scientists - they told me even by whatsapp - already sounds to you like typical words of your ministry and of your government. You are responsible for the greatest cuts in history, and we have also starred them because we have been the only country that has made them so intense, even during the crisis. This data and this decrease have not happened in any other country of the European Union. [[Ms González Veracruz shows a graph on the evolution of R & D expenditure as a percentage of GDP]] The countries that have invested in the right times have better endured the crisis and the countries that have had such difficult situations - because I recognize that we have had very difficult situations, I could not deny it - have sustained themselves; not as we, who have made a drop in the most objective data that there is: the percentage of the INE with respect to GDP, which we cannot tolerate. We are not going to meet the objectives of the European Union; moreover, Mr De Guindos, we must only take the percentage of the budget we devote to research with regard to the general budgets of the State. You talk a lot about approving budgets and I ask you, do you say it with a big mouth or a small mouth? Do you really want to adopt general state budgets as science needs in this country? Not only bring them in, bring them in with the objective that science should occupy in those budgets what it occupied with the socialist governments even at the worst times, which was 2.5%, and not the ridiculous amount that they have brought year after year, including 2014 and including that they do not execute them as happens every year. [[Applauds]] We've gone back ten years. Only if the sixth part of what you invested in Bankia's rescue would have dedicated it to science, today we wouldn't be like this. And it is not the crisis, Mr De Guindos, it is not the crisis; it is a question of priorities, a question of a country model and a question of an economic model and of how we want the society of the future to be. Qatar would not be what it is if it hadn't been planned decades ago and we need to know what we want citizenship to be dedicated to in a while, and you are taking the completely wrong path. This impoverishment of the country is going to be really expensive for us. You like to talk about the prestige of Spain and we have different concepts of what is the prestige of our country. For us socialists, the prestige of a country is precisely measured by its science, and you have contributed to sinking a ship that was known in Europe for what had developed in such a short time. Now from the outside you look at us with distrust, because you have even tried to convince them that we are not able to even coordinate projects because of the amount of bureaucratic obstacles they put in from the Treasury, allowed by Rajoy and by you in each of the measures. We have widened our distance from Europe rather than converge, and we have expelled at least, let it be known, that more than 37 000 scientists outside Spain have been accounted for. I hope, Minister, we have information from your government. We have been asking you here, that I know, at least since the last six years, but there are no known reports because you prefer the statistical blackout. In his last question he told me that they were preparing a report and it was never again known, and that is why more than 200,000 people signed the Charter for Science, demanding the recovery of an investment. They asked him for an agreement for science, to end definitively with a stage of cuts in budgets, in rights, and with the expulsion of talent. I ask you directly, Mr De Guindos - to see if this is the last time and I am lucky enough for you to answer - if it seems normal for you that in a country like Spain it is a matter of heroism to dedicate yourself to science, because being a researcher in this country is to be a hero, but being a researcher is to be a superhero, and that cannot go on like this, Mr De Guindos. [[Applauds]] Expulsion of talent is short, because not only have budget cuts been made. Explain in this rostrum what are the possibilities of a postdoctoral in this country; tell me what we do with the Juan de la Cierva or with the Ramón and Cajal when the system does not have the capacity to absorb them and take advantage of that talent, in which we have invested all the Spaniards and that it would be a guarantee of future and better jobs in the medium and long term. The aging of the Spanish science system is a reality and a real suicide as a country that must be reversed immediately. I suppose you will have read the cases of José Manuel Fernández and Amaya Moro, two of the most visible faces of the Letter for Science, who were not well received when a great demonstration took place at the doors of his ministry. They were not foolish claims. José Manuel is in Brussels today and no longer engaged in science, so I ask him what are the possibilities that the government gives to all those postdoctoral students, who we need to return to this country. And Amaya is one of so many people that we are giving to other countries, in this case to Baltimore. Think it over for a second, Minister. Think about it, because it's stupid as a country to be wasting so much talent with the positive impact its return could have on employment and the economy. That is why, in our country agreement, we put forward a plan for the return of 10,000 researchers. We want a real agreement, but for that we need the commitment of a Government that has so far only spoken empty words and made unfulfilled promises. I do not think it is normal for public research bodies to be in the situation they are in. The CNIO and the CNIC, well-known, need these budgets, but I'm sure you don't want it because it would cost you money that you're not willing to invest, that you're not willing to spend, in science, as you've shown over the past six years. We need your commitment that the consolidation of these 1800 jobs will be envisaged, because if not, within a year, we will be here exactly the same with the opposition groups, pressing politically, as has already happened, so that those researchers, who are not newly arrived fellows, but responsible for very important groups on various issues, also on cancer, are not one day after another getting up without knowing whether they are going to be able to devote themselves to science, to do great research in this country. Minister, the Science Act was passed seven years ago. You answered me to parliamentary questions in 2013 and 2014 about the situation of more than 800 scientists, who have not seen their rights recognized by law, but it is also an injustice that they are not allowed to be competitive with the rest of Europe, and you know perfectly well what I am referring to. Please tell us how much real time this government will take to do justice to more than 800 scientists and public research agencies. If all this is not enough, you have persecuted researchers with your way of doing science policy against science. What concrete solutions are they going to give to public research bodies? They have been raised directly not only to you but also to the Secretary of State for Budgets and to the intervener in all matters relating to management problems. What solutions are they going to give - I was recently told by the rector of a very important university in Madrid - to all those researchers who are today in the laboratories looking for how to justify the hours they have devoted in the last four years to their research? Do you not know, gentlemen of the government, that researchers spend more than 1200 hours per project? Don't you know that it's more important that you're putting all your grey masses into that investigation and not to answer them, because it seems like you're almost criminals to you instead of supporting them? Please, Minister, stop chasing them and give us answers today that can give hope to all the people who are seeing us. I sincerely believe that the management of research is currently the biggest burden in laboratories. And you will not be able to tell me in your reply that this has something to do with the past because all that has been an idea and production I do not know whether of Mr Montoro or Mr Rajoy, but, ultimately, of the People's Party government. In conclusion, I would like to ask you what your assessment is in the face of the resignation of the management team of the Solar Platform of Almería. I'd like you to answer me. They reject precisely the excessive democracy, the rules of control that this government has imposed on them, which confirms the idea that you are a government against science rather than driving forward.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u181	Mrs Gonzalez, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u182	I'm done. Minister, change your course, there is an opportunity with a change or a crisis of government; let's see if you listen to the PSOE, let's see if you listen to the scientific community and we recover a ministry of science because we can't stand another day as a country a Council of Ministers against science instead of promoting a recovery of investment, a recovery of talent and the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, which is what our country needs. For that, the PSOE will be, for a great country agreement; to wash the face of the government that has done most against science, there they will not find us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs González. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, there is nothing like trying to apply the scientific method to science, which is certainly what I believe has made progress to humanity, especially since the time of Enlightenment. If we do a little review of what has happened with the R & D+i budgets, the first major reduction in the non-financial budget was in 2010 and 2011, years in which it suffered a reduction of EUR 250 million. This meant that bodies such as IPOs, in particular CSIC, were cut by almost 30% in those two years. As expenditure was not adjusted to the new situation, a hole of more than €300 million was created in the system and numerous contributions were not paid to international consortia and entities, including debt to the Particle Physics Research Laboratory, the most important in the world, CERN. The situation of the accounts was not the only inheritance that we received in this matter, we also find numerous non-productive investments, mainly the result of the allocation of funds without competitive competition, and equally unsustainable was the professional career model that they had promoted and the low international scientific representation that had become widespread. Thus, as I have already reported on numerous occasions, the Government had to take emergency measures to eliminate unproductive expenditure and thus be able to safeguard the main pillars of the system: the calls for projects and human resources, the strengthening of participation in international consortia and the endowments for public research agencies, mainly the CSIC. With regard to budgetary allocations, I would like to remind you that R & D contributions have increased every year since 2013, although I recognize that I would have liked it to have been much more. On the other hand, since 2015 we have significantly expanded the places and improved the research career, as I have had occasion to explain in a previous question. I remind you of the data of the INE, that this is scientific; you will at least accept that the National Institute of Statistics is the fundamental source of statistics in our country. In 2016, the staff of the science, technology and innovation system increased by more than 5000 people, of whom about 4000 were researchers; a privileged replacement rate even in the worst years; a new model of employment recruitment in IPOs; an improvement in contracts to carry out theses and more economic support to stabilize researchers Ramon and Cajal are just some of the measures we have been taking. We have also taken a first step towards tackling the problems of researchers who have been chaining temporary contracts for more than three years, as I mentioned earlier. And we plan to include in the 2018 State General Budgets a stabilization rate of up to 90% of positions occupied by temporary contracts during the last three years in OPI, foundations and consortia. In addition, the new Plan for Scientific Research and Innovation, in force until 2020, proposes an increase in the duration of contracts of the Juan de la Cierva-Incorporation Programme. And no less important, we have supported the entry of scientific talent to companies through the new industrial doctorates. Finally, with regard to human resources, we continue to work on a research career model linked to merit and results. We cannot forget that when so many resources are allocated, it is important to compare that the resources of all Spaniards are devoted to what they have to devote themselves to, to somehow reward stability and excellence, which is helping to recover talent that had emigrated from Spain in the worst moments of the crisis. Part of these returning researchers do so to work in the private sector, which must also be a very important engine of our system of science and innovation. In fact, as you all know, this is one of our main challenges, as the weight of Spanish business R & D+i, 53%, is still far from two thirds of the Union. That is why the Government has made this issue one of the battlehorses from the outset and has promoted various measures to encourage greater investment in research and innovation by companies. First of all, the role of Cedeti, which has been offering direct support to companies for 40 years to bet on innovation. Among other things, access to finance has been facilitated by improving credit conditions for companies with rates below 1 %, increasing the non-refundable tranche and making the terms of guarantees more flexible. New public instruments have been created for access to alternative financing, from seed to venture capital, even for the export phase of expansion and export. The CIEN Programme has been launched to finance major industrial research projects. Beyond funding support we have created other incentives, with an improvement in the taxation of these activities through the R & D check, which allows the recovery as income from the investment subsidy in research and development, even in the absence of benefits. On the other hand, the bonus is 40% of social security contributions for research staff. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there are many different ways of measuring the success of this approach to R & D & i policy. It can be measured, as you do, by public expenditure. Its purpose is to spend, simply observing absolute figures of public investment or even the percentage of this expenditure on GDP. I do not deny the importance of this metric, but I believe that there are others that also - if you allow me to apply the scientific method - must be important. We often overlook a very relevant and enlightening indicator, such as the international presence of our system, which identifies its level of excellence. In this sense the news is, I think, quite positive. We have increased the presence of Spanish researchers and companies in the most prestigious international programmes, such as the CERN - I suppose those who are in the CERN do not consider them migrated or exiled from science -; we are the third country that is getting the most projects from the European Horizon 2020 programme and the fourth for returns, and we are the Member State that leads the most projects, 16%. We have strengthened Spain's role in key programmes and consortia such as the European Southern Observatory or the world's largest telescope in Chile, and we are the tenth country in the world in publications. In addition, we have research centers of the highest level, as evidenced by the network of Severo Ochoa Centers and Maria de Maeztu units, with more than forty institutions recognized among the most leading in the world in their respective disciplines. The quality of our science and our technological capacity has recently made us worthy of the choice of Spain for the implementation of installations as relevant as the Cherenkov network of telescopes in the Canary Islands or the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Barcelona. Moreover, with the launch in Seville of Lifewatch, the largest European initiative to promote biodiversity, we have just achieved the first research consortium for our country. And we continue to work to attract more relevant projects, ladies and gentlemen, such as the particle accelerator that Granada opts for or the 30-metre optical telescope, the largest in the world, which, after the rejection of Hawaii, has the preferred location on the island of La Palma by experts. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have also made great strides in the management and elimination of bureaucracy. In this regard, the establishment of the State Research Agency has been an important step forward in planning for the long term and in providing stability to aid calls; financial stability necessary both to ensure a sustainable scientific career and to ensure the development of research projects in the medium and long term. The introduction of the figure of the distinguished researcher as a model for a non-functional research career will undoubtedly help to make human resources management more flexible in the scientific field. However, as you all know, this type of change inevitably requires time to implement and, more importantly, political, social and parliamentary consensus. That is why I repeat to you once again that if you really want to make progress in clearing the excessive bureaucracy - I can accept it - of our system, it is in your hands to reach agreements with the Government to take action in this regard. In particular, you can join and contribute to the parliamentary agreement for science that the Secretariat of State and the Ministry have been promoting since the beginning of the legislature. The diagnosis of the problems of our science and technology system and the goals to be achieved, I believe they are shared, it only takes political will to reach agreements, Your Honor. Similarly, as I said earlier, you can work with the government to present and approve - no offense to you - the 2018 budgets, which will include numerous initiatives that will undoubtedly benefit science. Your Honor, I have made a quick review of the plump, but I think it has been quite indicative of the main issues related to R & D & i policy that we are promoting from the Ministry of Economy. In any case, for more detailed explanations, the Secretary of State for R & D & I has already requested his appearance in the Committee on Economic Affairs, to be held shortly. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs González Veracruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u186	Minister, with your reply and with each of your sentences you confirm to me everything I said in my previous speech. You show that you have been the absent minister and that you do not occupy or worry about what has to do with science in our country. All that was left was for me to refer to the appearance of the Secretary of State who, on the other hand, we have asked on several occasions - we have asked not only her as Minister, but also that of the Secretary of State - every time we have had a scientific report with conflicting data from the European Union for you to explain in this House. The whole country knows what happened in 2010 and I have recognized before that there were great difficulties, but there are many data that allow us, with scientific evidence, to compare the bet. While then 2.5% of total budgets were invested in science, we have moved on to an irritating amount that is not being implemented. Minister, the data for the previous year do not reach 50% of implementation and those we know from 2017 announce that it was even worse than 2016. That is the file of the People's Party Government that you leave today. I want to hope that something will change, although I know that while Montoro and Rajoy are in the government it will not be so, unfortunately. You said it was ours to spend. I think it's even flattering. For socialists, investing in science is not about spending, it is about investing in the future. It is to counter their model of poverty and precariousness to a future worthy of jobs as this country deserves. [[Applauds]] Of course, it's your thing to cut, Mr. De Guindos. I don't know how you can say that ours is spending, referring to socialists as if it were an insult, when yours is cutting. It is to cut into budgets, it is to cut actively and passively through bureaucratic obstacles and it is also to cut into rights. He has not answered any of the questions he asked in the previous speech, which have been very concrete and direct, indicating his lack of involvement and that of the Government in the last six years in the field of science and innovation. Don't worry because I'm going to record them in writing and so journalists and the entire scientific community will be able to know the answer to each of these questions. The investment in science, Minister - you must know, even if it is obvious in the gallery - is one of the few investments agreed by different specialists. The European Union has asked Spain to fulfil, unlike what it is doing, an investment that is absolutely consensual, that is productive and that brings a positive return to this country. What the European Union says is that we invest little, badly and that, in addition, expenditure is uncoordinated. That's your file, whether you like it or not. I want to take advantage of the short time I have left to say that when we talk about science, we are talking about childhood cancer, we are talking about the fight against ageing, about climate change, about great country challenges that Spain has to lead again and has to be supported by its Government, unlike what happens. Of course, we have a great country and great scientists, despite the government and all the obstacles they face every day. I prefer a country where there are many people who can devote themselves to photovoltaic energy or to investigating how to have much cheaper desalinated water than to precarious jobs like the ones you are promoting, like the model you are printing us. Science contributes to development and social welfare, but that can only be done, in a country with the productive structure we have, making the public a tractor of a private initiative - it's where you feel more comfortable and like to come back to it - that we're not getting it to be innovative, no matter how much you say. I can refer to the INE data, as you did before. Innovative companies in this country have been reduced from 30 000 to 18 000, according to the INE report, so if you are going to base your entire science system only on the part of private initiative, I can tell you that you too have a suspense not only on those issues that seem to us fundamental to the majority of the Spanish population, but also to those that you yourself indicate. There's a lot to do, Mr. De Guindos. I think we're starting a new stage today, too. The intention of the PSOE to recover the investment, to curb the cuts, to recover so much talent and to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles is clear. That of the People's Party Government is yet to be demonstrated. Of course, the file is very black. I could only say, Mr De Guindos, that so much peace takes as rest leaves researchers and researchers and the productive system of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs González. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that on the subject of science, if you will allow me, a number of principles of general agreement could be reached. For example, Your Honor, it is important in Spain to increase spending, investment, call it whatever you want - the term public spending is a generic term, it is a budgetary term that comes mainly from budget analysis - for which we need to increase both private sector and public sector spending, and where we have the main gap is undoubtedly in the private sector. Then, in the public sector we have a problem, as you know perfectly well, as it is not only the central administration but also the autonomous administrations. The 2016 data we commented earlier, the ratio of R & D investment or R & D expenditure to GDP shows that there is a drop in public sector spending that is not derived from the central government; you know that it is derived from an autonomous community. Look at exactly what the data is on this and you will see that we may have to ask not only the central administration, but also the autonomous administrations. There is therefore a need for a comprehensive agreement within all public administrations, introducing the whole system of universities - as it cannot be otherwise - with the private sector, but the main gap is in the private sector. That's the first consideration. Let's not focus on one or the other, let's focus on both. We have two eyes, we can look at both. Point number one. I suppose in that, Your Honor, you'll agree with me. Secondly, I believe that there is another fundamental principle, and that is that the centre of the system must be researchers, scientists must be scientists. That's where the talent of Spanish science is, that's where we have a differential element. We are not the most powerful economy in the world, we are not the one with the largest budget, perhaps we do not have the best coordination system given our administrative organization, but we do have scientists who, without a doubt - in that you will also agree with me - have enormous talent. If there is something global, it is science, and science ultimately assumes that we cannot see watertight domestic compartments from the point of view - if you allow me the expression - parishioner; science is global. Spanish scientists have to go outside and foreign scientists have to come to Spain, and that is a very important element. Moreover, as you know perfectly well, there are a lot of research projects that are international, that are global, and that is where we have to make all the effort. [[Applauds]] We need to create new procurement formulas not only for stable contracts to be made. We have tried to find very concrete and specific specific solutions to the problem of the concatenation of temporary contracts and I am convinced that the next General State Budgets or another rule will establish a definitive solution to that problem; I am absolutely convinced. You have the commitment not only to me, which obviously already has an expiry date, as you know, but also to the President of the Government, who is much more important. We also need to look for novel formulas. We need researchers with stable contracts of four, five or six years, and that logically afterwards their efforts - the dedicated resources - are somehow subject to control. I don't think we have any problems with this either. On the other hand, there is a fundamental issue to which you have previously referred. When I arrived at the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness at the end of 2011, the former Minister of Science told me: I think it is phenomenal that the science system has been integrated into the Ministry of Economy. He told me that it was because he considered that the main element to counteract the success of scientific policy was export, the ability to export goods and services of technological content. Look at the latest foreign trade data. What is being seen is that not only are more than 50 000 exporting companies continuously exporting. Look at the level of the technological component that exists in these exports, look at how innovation has been incorporated, and that certainly has to do with the global innovation system that has occurred in our country. Therefore, Your Honor, we believe that we have the limbs, we believe that we have the basis of the agreement and a diagnosis that is not so different; all we have to do is agree on something very important for the future of our country, which is science. Science, ultimately, along with other elements, is what ends up determining what economists call the total productivity of factors, which in turn ends up determining the prosperity of a society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the compliance by Spain with the opinion of the Committee OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS OF 20 JUNE 2017 ON THE RIGHT TO LIVING. [[File number 172/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u190	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning Spain's compliance with the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 20 June 2017 on the right to housing. For your defense, Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u191	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. I did not expect you, things as they are, and I say I did not expect you because the opinion we are dealing with is an opinion issued by the United Nations, and the ministry that answers to the United Nations is not yours, it is the Ministry of Justice. What happens is that after seeing the dantesque shows that the Minister of Justice has us used to, I don't know if I'm going to prefer you. If this is going to be the case, it is even to be thanked that we do not see how human rights protection systems are discredited from this rostrum or in this Parliament, as the Minister of Justice did this morning, to the shame of our country, in an absolutely entrepreneurship way. There was a system for the protection of human rights. We have come to talk about human rights this morning, and the first thing to do is to thank civil society organizations for reporting systematic non-compliance with international human rights law, in particular with regard to forced evictions without housing alternatives, without anything so far. The point is that our country, although unfortunately legal operators in Spain are not trained to do so, is part of an international system for the protection of human rights. Until recently there was no topic in the training of judges in Spain in human rights training; now there is a topic for the opposition, nothing more. It is difficult that, when we go to the judicial decisions that are made in our own judicial system, these rules, which are mandatory and in addition to direct implementation, should be applied afterwards. We do not need or need to transpose in many cases, but we need to interpret the rules in accordance with our international human rights obligations. Article 10 of the Constitution and some other article on ratification of international treaties says so. You must be somewhat surprised at the response you gave from the Government to a request for information asking why there had been a forced eviction without a housing alternative from a rental house. They asked them a number of questions: why there were no protection systems, why there were no defence mechanisms in the eviction procedure for unpaid rent, why social services had failed, why the autonomous community had failed, why there was no protection system that complied with international human rights law, and why, given the inadequacy of social housing, the Madrid Community and the Madrid City Council, under the PP governments, had missold the few social housing that existed in the community and the Madrid City Council. One thing is simply that social housing in Spain is around 1% at the moment; in relation to the rest of the European Union, I do not want to tell you, the number of dwellings can be about twenty or thirty times higher than that of Spain. Faced with this, you, to the shame of our country and to the shame of the State, in the answer to the United Nations - I have it here - start talking about what are the protection mechanisms for mortgage debtors. They ask you about a forced eviction without a housing alternative related to a lease and you talk about mortgages. Apples bring me. The problem is that they have no will to comply with international human rights obligations. Unfortunately, it is nothing new because the system of protection of our country's fundamental rights since the reform of the Constitutional Court has suffered a significant loss, since people no longer have a clear instance to appeal to infringing fundamental rights. Moreover, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, have not been distinguished by protecting the fundamental rights of vulnerable persons in our country and it has had to be the courts, the system of protection of the law of which our State is a party, who have had to give good account of these breaches that the Spanish State has had in this respect. Here are the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union stating that the most basic rules for a fair trial were not met in judicial proceedings, but since 2013 and since the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Petition it is also the United Nations to pull us out of our ears, and in faith that they have done so. It is not the first opinion, it is the second. The first, because of the notifications via BOE that violate the most basic principles of legal certainty in a procedure in which the litigator has to have the right to know what is happening in the judicial procedure. But this is more serious, it is more serious because it speaks directly of the violation of the right to housing directly by the State. Different human rights bodies in our country have formed a monitoring group; I am aware that they have not only met with our group but have met with all the groups in the House or have requested a meeting with all the groups in the House to see how this opinion is being complied with. This opinion - I repeat - is binding and I would like you to tell us what legislative reforms the Government intends to undertake. Not because I have any particular interest in being told about it to myself, but because there is a State responsibility to do so because it is an express mandate of the opinion itself. The opinion itself states what reforms the State will make in the legal system to comply with our international human rights obligations. We do not have much human rights culture in this country, unfortunately. It is normal, because here there is a culture of impunity in the face of gross violations of human rights. There has never been a system of protection, we moved from dictatorship to democracy without anyone responding for their crimes and we also moved to a culture of impunity in which the criminals of the transition also went unpunished; thus, we have built a culture that unfortunately goes against human rights. And the reality is that recently, last week, we were discussing in this House with Mr De Guindos - before his election to the European Central Bank as Vice-President - a law on real estate credit and one of the issues raised by my group was simply that our country's legislation should be adapted to this opinion. Something we are going to reiterate again because we have done so since the first day we entered this Chamber. On the first day we entered this Chamber we already registered a law in which we raised the need to comply with General Comment No. 7 and General Comment No. 4 of the United Nations Committee. We also did so in the alternative proposal and the truth is that unfortunately we did not have the understanding of the rest of the groups. He did not miss us on the part of the PP, which has had a quite clear vocation to protect financial institutions and large speculators throughout this time. We were not surprised by Mr Aznar's youth party, the orange party, who have been representatives of IBEX 35 in this House. He did surprise us with those who claim to be left-wingers. I thought those who claim to be left-wing are next to the popular sectors. And they tried to convince us last week that the system of protection for mortgage debtors in cases of forced evictions without housing alternatives was better than that of Mr De Guindos who proposed the proposal of Unidad Podemos; that it was not the proposal of Unidad Podemos, but the proposal that international human rights bodies are making and that it is something easy to understand: forced evictions without housing alternatives are illegal. That is something basic to be able to understand and articulate a democratic system. I must say, in retrospect, that the human rights system originated in 1948 in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where the peoples of the world, after overcoming fascism, said that civil and political rights of social rights were inseparable, that they could not be dissociated, that it was not possible to articulate a democratic system without guaranteeing the social rights of all citizens. I believe that this should give some thought to some political options that tear the clothes in defense of civil and political rights and last week voted in favour of the proposal of the representative of financial institutions in this country.There is no democracy without civil and political rights, and we are going to continue to demand that civil and political rights be fulfilled, but neither is there any without social rights and no environmental rights. [[Applauds]] We have to tell them we don't expect much from you, really. But we did want to take advantage of this rostrum to say that the Rajoy Government keeps Spain out of the law, that this Government has the will not to comply with the international human rights obligations that the Kingdom of Spain has undertaken, and we believe that this is absolutely unacceptable, that it puts you back in the picture and that it again points out that you have a very clear commitment, which is that of defending the privileged. Right now we are in a process of changing what you would call the real estate market. We are seeing how in the large financial institutions, after the rescuing scam to which they have subjected the whole population, new businesses will be articulated in order to continue exercising the monopoly on the right to housing. They did it with mortgage loans and now they intend to do it with urban leases. And I want to send a hug to the Llogaters Union, to the tenant union, which is demonstrating that it is necessary for the popular organization to be able to face the strategy of the vultures, who want to re-establish a monopoly with a right, at the cost of the suffering of the majority. We need to change housing legislation simply to meet our human rights obligations and to stop our country from being outside the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. Then, on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u193	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. You have put in the mixer a series of political labels in which, as you will understand, I will not enter because I am not going to question that in our country there is a culture for respect for human rights, or I am not going to have to go in and explain that the government keeps Spain within the law. I think there are more than enough arguments for not getting into that kind of demagogic labels that don't lead us to anything. If you will allow me, I will go to the bottom of the matter, which is certainly what you are concerned about, beyond the headlines you have wanted to get out of your speech. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in fact - not the Committee on Human Rights - delivered an opinion on 20 June 2017 on the right to housing, as a result of a specific complaint motivated by a case which - surely you and I agree on this - must be deeply regretted, a very special case, with characteristics that make us all feel repulsed by the way in which what happened, when it was a family with two children living here, in Madrid, as you have said, in a rented room. It established a series of recommendations addressed to the State on four aspects. The first, the existence of sufficient guarantees in the judicial processes of eviction of tenants; the second, the coordination of actions between judicial bodies and social services in the processes of eviction; the third, the adoption of measures to ensure that evictions provide alternative housing for resource persons; and, lastly, the formulation and implementation, in coordination with the autonomous communities, of a specific comprehensive plan to guarantee the right to adequate housing for people with low economic incomes. I will try to expose, with your permission, what the government is doing. You say that nothing has been done, I will try to explain to you what has been done, and much has been done, to meet these criteria and to comply with the norm, as it could not otherwise be, within our area of competence, because in housing policy, as you know, the transfer of competence is already done to the autonomous communities and municipalities. They have more to say than the central government itself in what is that autonomous and local policy. I am frankly curious that you have used this moment to attack the Autonomous Community of Madrid, to say that they do not run public protection housing and that this is one of the reasons why such situations occur. Perhaps he forgot to mention that the city council only executes 25% of the public housing committed, and that the Socialist Party in the City of Madrid - so that you do not question what I say - ensures that out of the 4,000 homes that your party has committed in Madrid only one hundred keys will be delivered in this legislature. It would be good if at the turn of the reply you confirmed whether or not these data are true. In any case, what the Government of Spain is doing in relation to the first point - that of the existence of sufficient guarantees in the judicial processes of the eviction of tenants - is doing so, as it has very well said, through the Ministry of Justice and I can tell you that Law 4/2013, of measures for the flexibility and promotion of the housing rental market, has already carried out a reform of certain precepts of the Civil Prosecution Act precisely to address certain issues of the eviction procedure, safeguarding the right to opposition under the legally established terms and conditions. In relation to the second point, coordination between judicial bodies and social services, this is also a matter for the Ministry of Justice, in coordination with the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, to indicate that the General Council of the Judiciary has been signing, as you know, agreements of collaboration with different autonomous governments with the aim of establishing a protocol of action for those situations in which, in the event of a discharge arising from a mortgage execution procedure or a discharge for lack of income, a situation of special vulnerability or social exclusion is observed. Thus, the judicial authority, which is not the Government, determines the desirability or need for intervention, is notified to the social services of the relevant Government, they transfer it to the competent body so that, after carrying out the necessary checks by the autonomous or local administration, the appropriate decision can be taken and, if the requirements are met, it is included in the social housing programme. I can cite a number of examples here because those of us who have had responsibility in local or regional governments know about the use of social housing programmes to cover precisely this type of case. It is also important to remember that in the case of the Autonomous Administration, as in the case of the Local Administration, the Ministry of Development does collaborate. In this case, it is our competence - even if it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Development for housing policy - to help with programmes aimed specifically at strengthening the rental market and, in particular, at helping the most needy and the most vulnerable groups. The third of the recommendations is the one that proposes measures to ensure that evictions, as you have also indicated, provide alternative housing for people without resources. Here I would like to say that we all share, of course, the tragedy of the evictions that we are experiencing and that we are already in the government in 2012, with an increase that, I would like to recall, was 157 % compared to 2008 and in the context of more than 6 million people in our country. The most important measures, in my view, in this third recommendation are those related to prevention, i.e. to prevent such a situation of eviction. In this way, in order to deal with these extremely vulnerable situations affecting a large number of families as a result mainly of the economic and financial crisis, a package of protection measures for mortgage debtors has been adopted, focusing specifically on those with scarce resources who were experiencing, as I say, situations of special weakness. As you will recall, one of the first measures was the suspension of launches on habitual housing of particularly vulnerable groups, which was established in Royal Decree-Law 27/2012, of urgent measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, which this House subsequently validated by Law 1/2013 - I say this because you say that nothing has been done -, exceptionally, temporarily, motivated by the situation we all knew but which has been applied to any mortgage execution process by which the creditor of the habitual housing is awarded in the case of families at risk of social exclusion and prevents the launch and eviction of the affected family. The deadline for the suspension of these launches - he also knows - was initially set in the two years and with this we arrived until May 15, 2017. Many collectives and political groups called for an extension of this safeguard, I myself heard it at the Sectoral Housing Conference by different autonomous communities, and this has been achieved by transferring that extension until March 2020 - with which I believe it is an absolutely correct measure - through the Royal Decree-Law 5/2017. It is also good to recall here the Code of Good Practice for the Sustainable Restructuring of Mortgage-Guaranteed Debts on Custom Housing, which was approved in 2012; as is the Social Housing Fund, which since its inception in 2013 has increased its endowment to almost 10,000 homes provided by twenty-nine financial institutions. All of these instruments, which were mainly implemented through the 2012 measures, have benefited some 78,600 families, according to the latest data from the Ministry of Economy, more than 24,000 launches have been suspended, more than 45,600 families have accepted this code of good practice, 9020 housing units have been awarded through the Social Housing Fund, representing 90% of the available floors for vulnerable groups. Additional measures have also been taken to extend the protection of mortgage debtors, including in both cases to families with minor children or where there is a victim of gender-based violence. And, on the other hand, we have the rental mechanisms in favour of the debtors subject to mortgage execution whose launch is suspended so that they can request that their housing be rented under preferential conditions for a period of up to five years and five years, if agreed by the corresponding entity. I think it is important to highlight this set of measures taken by the Government which have made it possible for mortgage executions - although the data is still worrying, of course - to be reduced significantly to a rate of 58.9 per cent per annum. Here are the statistics, which are not from the Government, Your Honor, they are from the General Council of the Judiciary, and I hope that it does not question them either. Finally - I barely have time - they are included - this time, depending on the Ministry of Development - a battery of measures collected in the new housing plan; I will already talk about the plan 2018-2021 that we intend to approve in the Council of Ministers in the first half of March, which we also intend to present to the Sectoral Housing Council for the distribution of funds to the different autonomous communities, and thus allow the signing of the corresponding agreements. It has collected the contributions of these autonomous communities, many of which are targeted precisely at more vulnerable groups. We have incorporated more than half of the comments we have received and I believe that we have a programme with new initiatives to continue supporting those most disadvantaged people and households. I will not quote them here because I do not have time, but among them is the provision of vacant housing for credit institutions and other owners so that the autonomous communities can rent them to people who are in this situation of eviction from their usual housing. The last of the recommendations is the formulation of implementation in coordination with autonomous communities. The Government is trying to make a great effort to comply with this comprehensive plan, with specific programmes targeted at those households characterized by this higher level of social vulnerability, including those included in that state plan which you are well aware of, so it does not need to be explained in depth. In conclusion, with this set of actions, we believe that these recommendations of the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights are being implemented, which will help to minimize as far as possible the drama that these people are suffering always in a eviction and, as I say, in the most disadvantaged families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u195	I already told you, Minister, about the culture of human rights. Economic, social and cultural rights are also human rights, they are not a rare thing to be fulfilled only when we want to, but there is an obligation on the part of the State to comply with them and they are part of the human rights protection system: the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and other international treaties to which our State is a party and which become obligations. I know you have a bad influence on Milton Friedman's culture, which was an enemy of human rights, but our democratic state drinks from there. And when I tell them they're out of the law, I don't say it, the ruling says it. This opinion is saying that the State is out of the law and that legislative reforms must be made. You have come up here and you have not said any, but I really enjoyed saying something, you have made me very excited that you allude to the competence of the autonomous communities in the area of housing. You have it so clear, so clear, so clear, that you have resorted to Andalusian law, Murcian law, Valencian law, Canary law, Navarra law and Basque law. [[Applauds]] You have used the Constitutional Court to try to prevent protective measures from being taken in all public administrations that have taken or attempted to take measures to protect people in vulnerable situations. They don't take them or let anyone take them. And in this it is not worth the ball game, here what it is about is that there is cooperation between all the public administrations and between all the powers of the state. I didn't give credit when I was talking about urban lease reform. What urban lease reform does is to facilitate evictions. You have followed the same logic that you follow with employment: you think that facilitating dismissal creates more employment and you think that renting is promoted by favoring eviction. This is their policy to promote access to leases. In addition, the creation of companies that do not pay taxes, which are the socimis, intended for the real estate business. Frankly, I do not believe the things you say to me, especially because it gives me the feeling that the opinion has not been read because it has not mentioned either the first of all, that it is to take relevant legislative and/or administrative measures to ensure that in the judicial proceedings of evictions of tenants the defendants can object or file an appeal in order for the judge to consider the consequences of the eviction and the compatibility of this measure with the pact. Clear the water! Spanish law does not comply with the international norm and must be changed, Minister. That's what he's got. [[Applauds]] Why? Because we are currently outside international human rights law. But this is not the first time, the Minister who has walked quite a few years ago also denied that we were outside European law. Today it costs us 105 000 euros a day to commit to the elites, to commit to the vultures and to be a party at the service of the speculators. [[Applauds]] I want to tell you that I was talking to you about state data - you have not reached the limits of Minister Catalá's mud, but you have missed it - and in Spain we have a one and peak of social housing for rent, the Netherlands has 32%, Austria has 23%, the United Kingdom has 18% and France has 17%. It is not that they are no nest of Bolsheviks these countries, as you will understand, but they have a policy that takes into account that some obligations must be fulfilled. I would like to tell you that with publication in the BOE it is not known, so it would be good for the spokesman minister of his Government to go out to our country and say that our Government, the Rajoy Government, will comply with international obligations and will comply with the opinion. Unfortunately, I don't think I will. You are the Government of the elites and the anti-popular Government. And we want to tell you that we do have a country project, that we do have a proposal to this country, a proposal to the social majority and that we invite all social sectors, the social majority, to build a popular government that will put you on the street and start defending the interests of the majority against vultures and speculators. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mayoral, the Government does not decide who has jurisdiction over housing, but the Constitution and, indeed, they reside in the autonomous communities and the municipalities. He says that we appeal to them the laws. No, it's just that we have to comply with what the Constitution says. When a person legislates and exercises his or her powers, he or she must comply with what the Constitution says. You come and say that we are in the illegality, that we do not comply with the laws and then you state that it seems to you very well that the autonomous communities legislate against the Constitution. What are we left with? Should laws and the Constitution be complied with or should legislation be enacted against the Constitution? Because if there is an appeal against an autonomous law that complies with the Constitution, I can assure you that it will not prosper, with which you are absolutely calm with that. He cannot express: today I like the Constitution, as my colleague, Méndez de Vigo, told him, today I do not like the Constitution, and continue to swim in that ambiguity in which you have recently swam in matters as important as the one you already know. He talked about the rental policy. What do you think the Housing Plan consists of? In favour of the rental policy, in favour of it, in providing resources to those who have to implement that policy. Your Honor, it is not the Government that sets out to build flats to put them in the rental market. It is not the Government, but the autonomous communities and the municipalities. Since he has said that his party is the one that represents the true values of this country and that his policies are the right ones to defend human rights, I thought he was going to come up here to deny that it is true that, by governing for four years in the capital of Spain, they are going to build a hundred social housing units, but he has not done so and has given it for good. You praise your party's housing policies and, although I could have told you in the reply, I told you in the first intervention to give you the opportunity to say: Minister, it is a lie that my party does not build social housing and what you have said is false. [[Major Perales shows a document]] You must be teaching me the plan of the 4000 dwellings in Madrid, but I don't want to see the 4000 dwellings, but the 100 keys, all that you tell me will be able to deliver in this city. [[Majoral Perales: No, the opinion]] That is not defending housing policy, it is not promoting the fight against rental prices. It makes me an example of France, let us do as we do in France. Your Honor, rent in Paris costs more than twice as much as it costs in Madrid. If you want, we apply the same policy so that in Madrid the rental price is multiplied by two, which is what you are proposing to me. [[Mr. Mayoral Perales: I propose you social housing]] He mentioned a number of countries in which he said that the culture of rent was superior. Man, that's obvious. Of course I share with you that the culture of rent is superior in those countries, but it is also true that with the policies being carried out by the Government of Mariano Rajoy the percentage is increasing substantially. We were on the 19th and we're on the 22th. Far away from the European average? Far too far still, but don't set the example of some countries and cities that happen to have significantly higher rental prices than we have. Your Honor, we are putting in place effective measures. You deny this, but I remind you that the General Council of the Judiciary has indicated that the number of mortgage executions has reached the lowest figure since 2008 over the past year, and in that you will have to see some of the measures being implemented by the People's Party. You don't have to teach us lessons about defending human rights, it would be missing more. I suppose that is not necessary in parties that, like yours and mine, firmly believe in the defence of human rights. We can discuss whether it is appropriate for you to have a specific programme within the Housing Plan for young people, older people or groups with the income level of 3.5 or 4.5 of the Iprem; we can discuss this, but not about the defence of fundamental values by our political group. In that regard, I am not going to argue because I am not going to question it. The result of the policies being put in place and of others that can be put forward later - including the ambitious programme of the Housing Plan - will serve to favour the autonomous communities, and I hope that some of the municipalities in which you govern, start to change a little and develop a policy aimed at promoting an increase in the supply that will reduce the rental price, which is the fundamental issue in order to be able to achieve a satisfactory result in terms of the regulation of rental prices in our country. That's his obligation. You brag about your party's policies here, but you've had three years to prove them. You still have a year ahead of you to achieve at least half, half, half of the goals and commitments you have to citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT ON THEIR POLICIES TO VERIFY THE DISPOSAL PROCESS IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u199	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment on their policies to reverse the depopulation process in Spain. For your defence, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u200	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You will ask yourself, Minister, or you will ask me, why the inquiry is addressed to you when the Commissioner on the Demographic Challenge reports to the Vice-President of the Government. We address you because the commissioner is neither here nor expected. The Commissioner has done nothing, because in more than a year he has been created, we still do not know a single measure he has implemented. In all the questions I have asked the Government on the subject of depopulation, on the subject of the Commissioner, they have always addressed me to you, they have always told me: in the plans that the Ministry of Agriculture has... Therefore, as I am addressed to you whenever I ask questions, I ask you. Therefore, I have already answered in case you tell me that this is not your subject. Many times people have the routine of saying that Citizens is an urban party, a party that doesn't know the rural world, that doesn't know the terrain. For I, minister, come from the zero zone of depopulation, from the southern Lapland is where I come from. I come from a region where if you have a heart attack in a village in the mountains you can die or die, because health centers do not have defibrillators, there is only one nurse and the nearest ambulance costs more than an hour to get there. But you can also die or die if you have a heart attack because you can't ask for help, because in many villages there is no coverage. [[Shows a photocopy of a press clipping]] Look: He dies after trying to call in a town without cover. That is the reality of my region, unfortunately. And if there are villages that have no connection or coverage to make a call, of course, let's no longer talk about high-speed Internet connection. As you will understand, in a world of the digital age, without high-speed connection it is very difficult to do business. Thus, it is very difficult for a rural house, for example, to mount a website to promote your business, or it is very difficult for a student to study remotely with the new technologies that now exist, because he has no access to high-speed Internet. In our region, unfortunately, young people are going to study outside and are no longer coming back, Minister. My classmates, my friends, the best prepared, the best students left and never came back. That's the reality. It is a region where student residences become elderly, literal residences. Ask your partner, who was mayor of my city - although he is not now, he has had to leave; he should not be interested in the subject - ask who was mayor. It is a region where fewer and fewer children are born. [[Show a chart]] Look at the chart: The evolution of births in hospitals in Aragon down, more and more down. It is an ageing region where, unfortunately, it is news that a school will be opened. It's a region where farmers have to help the Civil Guard look for killers. Does José Luis Iranzo ring a bell? Does that ring a bell, Minister? Farmers in my region have to help the Civil Guard look for murderers because, according to the Unified Civil Guard Association, 700 civilian guards are needed only in Aragon. [[Show a chart]] Look, the Unified Association of the Civil Guard says there are between 700 and 800 missing - I had been short - troops in Aragon. That's the reality. Their cattlemen have to go out and find murderers and find death by looking for them. That's right, we're short on civilian guards, we're short on doctors, we're short on firemen, but you know what we don't? Do you know what we have left? Politicians. [[Citations from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] In my region, apart from the State - General administration - apart from the autonomous community, apart from provincial parliaments and municipalities, we have the regions, and since we did not have enough, a new one is now being created. In total, more than 800 regional councillors and, of course, each region with its president, vice president and salaries. We've got plenty of that. It is a region where the train takes three hours more than a century ago, I repeat, three hours more than a century ago! The freight trains take three hours more than a century to link Zaragoza and Valencia; well, now you can tell us that they have made a few plans and that it only takes an hour more than a century. That is the reality, it is the reality of a region in which we have a region like the mining basins, which dies, unfortunately, dies. Here we have a project, a project of his ministry, that of the water elevation of Andorra, which has not just been done. It is a project that would serve the whole area and attract many companies. And what has your ministry done? We don't know. Of course, I no longer speak to you of the eternal and unfinished works of the Water Covenant. We'll leave that for another day, Minister. Unfortunately, this description I give you is not exclusive to my community, from Aragon, it is a common situation to all of Spain from the interior, to all of that eternally forgotten Spain and which you only remember when the elections arrive. That's the raw reality. According to the National Institute of Statistics, of the current 8125 municipalities, more than 60 per cent have less than 1000 inhabitants and in almost 1300 municipalities there are less than 100 people surveyed in the pattern. It is a rural world isolated, uninhabited, aged, without infrastructure and services. It is a serious problem affecting about ten autonomous communities in Spain and more than half of the area of that empty Spain. In recent years, much has been said about depopulation. We're talking all day, but little has been done. As early as March 2013, the Senate created a special commission to address the issue and adopt measures to prevent depopulation in mountain areas. Conclusions and a battery of measures were adopted in June 2015, but what has been done about all this? We don't know. The Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces has also made its reports and proposed its measures and, of course, we have the government's star measure: the Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge. Well, we said he didn't do anything. But not only on the part of the Senate or the federation, but there have also been proposals for measures by different autonomous communities, business associations, trade unions... In short, many proposals, but few facts and few realities. We have a project that I think is very interesting, which is that of Serrania Celtibérica, of Professor Burillo, of the University of Zaragoza. It is a project that brings together the peoples of Burgos, Castellón, Cuenca, Guadalajara, La Rioja, Segovia, Soria, Teruel, Valencia and Zaragoza; a project that would serve to attract special European funds to fight against depopulation. That Senate Committee has already told them to push it, but unfortunately, the government does not push that project that could be used to attract European funds. Madam Minister, the inhabitants of these areas are not second-rate Spaniards and are now being treated as second-rate Spaniards, because they do not receive the same services as the rest of the Spaniards and have the right to receive the same services as the rest of the Spaniards. I'll tell you what. The inhabitants of these areas are tired of being treated as second-rate Spaniards. They are fed up with plans, commissioners, studies and reports. In short, Minister, they are fed up with unfulfilled promises. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, to conclude - because I think the interesting thing is to listen to you - I will tell you that any neighbour of any village in Soria, Teruel or Cuenca has the same rights to receive the same services as any neighbour in Madrid, Barcelona or Valencia. That is why I wanted to ask you what your Government is going to do to really fight against depopulation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u202	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for presenting this inquiry into depopulation, which allows us to report and discuss issues - such as water policy two weeks ago - that the Government has been dealing with for a long time. Your Honor, Spain, like other countries in our environment, is facing a demographic change that has been taking place in recent decades; a change that is characterized by the progressive ageing, low birth rate and the consequent alteration of the population's age structure. These factors have a special impact on certain areas of our territory, where demographic indicators show depopulation dynamics that have a profound impact on economic development and result in a loss of part of our heritage as a country, in social, historical or cultural terms. For this reason, the Government is promoting measures to address demographic challenges with public policies that respond to the needs of citizens. The development of the rural environment, the challenge of curbing its abandonment, requires cross-cutting analysis and is therefore being given a multisectoral approach to this challenge. We have made this matter an important political objective in our country. That is why, Your Honor, the Government, through the Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, who was set up at the Conference of Presidents in January 2017 and who is dependent on the Vice-Presidentship of the Government, is preparing the cross-cutting strategy that will be presented in the near future, in collaboration with many departments and, of course, also with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. In it, we will not only address measures to deal with the ageing of the population and promote birth in general terms, but depopulation in certain areas will have specific treatment and concrete measures, measures to attract and fix inhabitants to these places, which requires improving their opportunities and their potential. Your Honor, as you refer to my ministry, I will tell you that agricultural activity and the agri-food sector are very important, because they are the main economic activity of the rural environment, creating wealth and opportunities. And thanks to the enormous and contrasting agrarian vocation of the Government, thanks to the enormous confidence in this sector and its capacities, we have indicators that support positive developments in these years. The agri-food sector now accounts for 10% of gross domestic product. At the beginning of the 10th Legislature it was 8%. The production value of the agricultural branch in 2017 reached 49,192 million euros. This is a historical record of the value of our farmers' production. Net sales of the food industry's product are close to EUR 100 billion and employ more than 360 000 people. In terms of occupation, the sector has recorded the most important quarterly growth in the Spanish economy; an increase in recruitment of 43,700 jobs, to an occupation of 820,700 people. In terms of unemployment, 2017 has led to a decrease in agricultural unemployment by 18,600 people; a decrease of 8.5% compared to 2016. All these people are active in rural areas. Exports have increased by 60 % compared to 2011. They are for the first time above EUR 50 billion per year. Since the start of the legislature, agricultural income has increased by almost 30%, reaching a value close to EUR 28 billion in 2017. It is clear that this is due to the important agri-food sector that we have in Spain, to which I thank for its undeniable effort, but I do not doubt that my Government's action has also had to do with all this, not only for the policies implemented, but also for the confidence and pride that we feel towards our agri-food sector and our rural environment. Your Honor, from the government we continue to work on other measures, and I will give some examples of the initiatives we have already taken to tackle depopulation. First, the Government will bring digital transformation to Spain. Also, and in particular, the rural environment, aware of the challenge and the great opportunity it presents, in terms of improving the quality of life and opportunities, for everyone, especially young people and women, to want to live in the rural environment. We want a dynamic, active rural environment with employment opportunities and better health services, transport and better agriculture. That is why the Government considers it a priority - we have been announcing it for a long time - that fibre optics will reach all parts of Spain, because it will benefit from the introduction of new economic activities and, by doing so, it will also help depopulation and, fundamentally, it will equal in opportunities all citizens, those living in urban centres and those living in rural areas. At the Council of Ministers last Friday we approved the creation of an interministerial working group to draw up the plan to boost the digital transformation of the Spanish economy. This plan will collect measures and tools based on digital technologies that promote the improvement of competitiveness and economic growth, as well as the improvement of services, the improvement of social benefits integrated in the Digital Strategy for an Intelligent Spain currently being prepared by the Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. This very weekend the president has made several announcements in this regard. He announced that the last generation networks will reach all the population centers of Spain, however remote they may be, within three years. We will invest EUR 20 million in a programme to promote training projects in the field of information and communication technologies, thinking about youth employment. We have approved two national plans for training workers in digital skills for 2018, each with EUR 60 million, and a programme for SMEs, with EUR 10 million, to support digital transformation in companies. These measures are in addition to those we have already been implementing in recent months, measures to promote Internet access in depopulated and remote areas. In 2017, aid of more than EUR 100 million was called for for the next generation of broadband extension programme, almost 60% more than in the previous year. We were the last in 2011; in the current year we are leading in digitisation with regard to our community partners. In addition, a new programme of direct aid for the procurement of high-speed broadband services for entrepreneurs, associations or municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants was approved, because we want to see municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants. In addition, the new Smart Territories Plan 2017-2020 includes the creation and drive of smart rural territories to help municipalities improve the delivery of services and also the performance of their productive sectors through technological solutions, for which an investment of more than 50 million euros will be made, and we also continue to work on the extension of the Connected Schools Programme, to boost access to ultra-fast broadband to Spanish educational institutions supported with public funds. The digital transformation, and all its benefits - which will be - social, economic and environmental, will reach Spain, the whole of Spain, the whole rural environment, and will do so at the hands of this government. All these are measures in which progress will continue, but there are many more. Together with digitization, this Government is paying special attention to young people and women, because we consider them to be priorities to address depopulation. In this regard, we have granted EUR 100 million of aid to local authorities for the integration of young people into the labour market through the development of programmes for their sustainable integration into the labour market. Almost a third of these funds have been directed to provincial parliaments - EUR 31 million -, divided into 37 projects that will benefit more than 8600 young people, who are doing a very important job in assisting small municipalities, because we want to see provincial parliaments. We will continue to make progress in this direction to promote the training and employment of young people, as well as the maintenance and attraction of the population to these areas. Furthermore, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment we are working on a strategy of rural modernization and diversification, with women and young people once again as a central axis, something, I insist, capital to tackle depopulation and, as such, it constitutes an essential part of the approach to the demographic challenge. Thus, the fundamental objective of the strategy is to mitigate the marked process of ageing and depopulation in certain regions of Spain. Since the beginning of 2017 we have worked with all sectoral agents and administrations with interest and possibility to collaborate in the task. The result of this work was the first draft of the strategy - it was made public in July 2017 - which presents a series of measures including some such as the so-called youth package, aimed at promoting the incorporation of young people into agri-food and forestry activities. The strategy also presents measures related to the need to promote innovation and digitisation as essential elements to promote entrepreneurship and the development of economic activities in rural areas, especially in the agri-food and forestry sectors. Thirdly, we also focus on the training and qualification of professional workers so that they can make the best use of technologies in those sectors such as agriculture, more traditional and with smaller companies. In addition to working on this strategy from the ministry, we are implementing the measures contained in the Plan for the promotion of women in rural areas, approved in 2015, with effect until this year 2018. On the other hand, the National Rural Network, which is also integrated into the Ministry, is committed to highlighting the value of the rural environment and its inhabitants, as well as the key role that the European Union's rural development policy plays in this process. In addition, we are launching many other initiatives that will be synergistic with those included in the strategy of rural modernization and diversification in the fight against depopulation. In addition to the bioeconomy strategy already approved by the Government, the Forest Action Plan, whose final version is now being finalized with the autonomous communities, will shortly be added to the strategy, which provides for an axis of measures to boost forest management as a tool for combating depopulation and abandonment of the rural environment. Finally, also some more evidence of the Government's support for irrigation agriculture, the next national irrigation strategy will include, among the criteria for prioritizing investments, those related to the risk of depopulation of the area in which the investment is intended to take place. I'm done, Your Honor. We take care of our countryside, we take care of keeping a rural economy alive throughout our territory. We give the importance that agrarian activity deserves as the main economic activity of the rural environment, and today, as a result, agriculture generates more wealth and more opportunities in all these areas. The Government is using all the measures and resources within our reach to continue to turn challenges and challenges in Spain and Europe into opportunities and to promote a dynamic and modern rural environment, with high-value jobs, because if anyone has always been characterized by his special sensitivity and concern for the rural environment it has been this Government, the Government of President Rajoy, and if anyone defends the interests of our countryside and the people living in it are the governments of the People's Party, and we defend them not only in Spain, but also in all the Community institutions, which is where rural development measures are largely negotiated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u204	Madam Minister, what has become meridianly clear to me about all of your intervention is that you are defending the political positions, because you have made a good point of it. That, of course, is clear to me. I don't know if you believe that political positions provide services or value, if that's what really interests the inhabitants of those villages or, on the contrary, they care that there is a doctor, a teacher, a civilian guard... I don't know. [[Applauds]] I believe - I will tell you with all the respect of the world, truly, and I consider you to be a very valid minister - that you have been in the ministries too long, in the posts, and sometimes are already out of reality, completely out of reality. You're talking to me about what they're gonna bring, what they're gonna approve, what they're gonna create... It tells me that the only figure - if I have not been wrong; I have tried to be attentive to everything they said - that has given me real help has been 100 million euros for young people. And everything else has been loose measures from which I can get 200, 300... year after year. But what I was telling you is that the people who live in these areas, the people of these peoples, are already sick of unfulfilled promises. They no longer need to be told that I will, that I will create, that I will bring... Do you think they're worth it? But it's also been quite a year in the government and the commissioner has created more than a year, don't you think it's enough time? Do you, Minister, sincerely believe that you can look into the eyes of the inhabitants of these peoples and tell them that you are doing all you can? Really? Yeah? [[Consent of the Minister]] I don't know, Minister. I don't think so. I think reality isn't going to a fair, it's okay, but I think it goes beyond that. He has told us, for example, about his strategy for rural modernization and diversification. I'd like to meet her because there's a timeline on her website and it looks like it's by the end of 2018. I don't know. I don't know how they're doing. Yes, they will. Whether they're doing something or not. We don't know it, really. Here I could get you a battery of measures of all kinds, but for us there are two fundamental - let's name them - and one is to make a national strategy against depopulation, of course, to analyse the causes of this problem, to consider the main proposals, measures and actions needed. And at the heart of this strategy is the need for a law on the reversal of depopulation which delimits, of course, which areas are most affected by this phenomenon and which concretely sets out measures and budgets. You said, as in the past, regarding the municipalities, that we like the municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants. I remember that campaign of municipal and autonomous elections where you went out with the banner: 'My people don't close'. No, Minister. The people are not going to close it Citizens, no; you are going to close it for death. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u205	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, no one can deny that this government is working intensively in rural areas. Without any doubt, we are the government - we are the governments of the rural environment - that has incorporated a problem that did not exist for you on the political agenda. I have shown here that many measures have been put in place and we will continue to raise more that they will be known once they are taken to the rest of the administrations. Then you will know them and the strategy of the Commissioner to whom you have referred. But, Your Honor, this is the government that has been the first to incorporate depopulation among the national objectives to be addressed. We are working to come up with solutions, we are doing so with the will to make them work with the work of the entire Government and the spirit of cooperation of all administrations. In my first speech I focused on exposing some of my ministry's policies to reverse the depopulation process, among other things, also to the community institutions. He says there's no more help for young people. So more than 700 million euros. This government decided to tackle the CAP by favouring young people, and this year we have doubled the amount of aid in the sector I support. The defence of the CAP is complemented by policies of insurance, of improving competitiveness, of vertebrating sectors, of quality, of internationalisation; a very long and so forth that today, as I have said before, agriculture creates more jobs than ever before in rural areas. But the whole Government is working in the same direction, giving a multisectoral approach to the challenge of curbing abandonment in rural areas. The national strategy to meet the demographic challenge will have, among other things, measures for training, employment, entrepreneurship, communication, transport, the empowerment of rural and nature tourism, support for young people and women, the demand for the value of our countryside and our peoples, all so that more people can live and work in them and do so in the best conditions. We will also defend the CAP as a priority European policy, and as a government we have already taken up the new multiannual financial framework to be negotiated in the European Union from 2 May. Faced with this, what I have heard from you are some things that I, who consider myself a moderate person, sincerely, have caused me to blush, to say it in a gentle way. Demagogy cannot go beyond certain limits; it knows what I mean and I will not quote it. Faced with this, you propose that people living in rural areas, first, do not have municipalities if their villages have less than 5,000 inhabitants, when the municipalities are the administration closest to the citizen, where they first come to solve their problems and are fundamental to the provision of certain services. Do you imagine the approaches you have made to me in your province, Teruel, with your proposal? Only the inhabitants of Alcañiz, Andorra and Teruel would have a door to call, because the rest have a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants. Imagine the story you've told without even having a mayor in a small municipality, whom I think we should all thank for their work because they're people who work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, always listening to their neighbors. Faced with this, you propose that people in rural areas have no deputies, when it is precisely the deputies who attend these small municipalities, but, of course, if there are no municipalities... Report it and prove it. [[Applauds]] You propose that people in rural areas do not have seats, but it is the seats that assist small municipalities and coordinate municipal services to ensure their provision. And you propose that rural people have no voice here in Parliament. It seems to them too much that they have and join Podemos to drown the voice of rural Spain. For you, they are second-rate Spaniards, your territory here doesn't count. Teruel, Soria, you don't count. Allow me to ask you to have a genuine consideration for the people living in rural areas. It is incompatible with your novel - we all know it is novel because you have remembered it, it is the first thing you have said when you came to this rostrum - concern for the rural environment with this recent political position. Either you don't worry, and it's facade, or you must change your approaches. For our part, the Government, the People's Party, together with the autonomous communities, including its own, Aragon - which, by the way, has put forward very interesting proposals in the fight against depopulation - will continue to emphasize the importance that we give to the rural environment and the importance that we give to the voice of each Spanish citizen, they live where they live. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-21-CD180221.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. After the debate on the last item on the agenda, we shall suspend the meeting. It was 12 and 40 minutes from noon.
