ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government, first of all, question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u2	Mr Sánchez, are you in a position to bring to this House the budgets that Spain needs?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u4	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr Casado, what I fear is that with regard to what Spain needs, the opinion that I have and the opinion that you have are probably completely different. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u5	Mr. Married, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u6	Mr Sánchez, I think you were talking yesterday about disloyalty because we were criticising in the European Union the budgets you have put forward. Do you say that you voted against the Juncker-Schulz European Pact, in the face of the shame of all your colleagues? You voted against Commissioner Cañete when we had supported Solbes or Almunia? And let your government say that this is a question of patriotism?, the government, which sold Spain to the independenceists by a few votes in the motion of censure?, the government, which sends Churches to negotiate with a coup prisoner or that sends Zapatero to negotiate these budgets supposedly with a terrorist like Otegi? [[Rumors.-Protests]] Look, Mr Sánchez, your government is a ruin and I defend Spain from the bad budgets that you present here in Brussels and where it is needed. This is the first time in history that budgets are presented without approving a spending ceiling in this House illegally, and we will do our best to avoid it; the first time that budgets are presented in a partisan pamphlet with a logo of the Government of Spain that looked like a Besamans to the Party Podemos. But this is not the first time that the Socialist Party has presented budgets manipulating expenditure and revenue, raising the deficit, also raising taxes; ultimately ruining Spain. They already did it in 1996 and they did it in 2011, because you have become a Zapatero plagiarism. I was there, as a Member, in 2009 when Zapatero extended a finished legislature by burying it in PlanE concrete, and you now want us to pay him the rent of La Moncloa with more debt, with more unemployment and with another recession. They received a country that was growing to 3%, with 3 million more jobs, with healthy accounts, with approved budgets that raised salaries to officials, that also raised the minimum wage and pensions. Do you want to raise the minimum wage and pensions more? So do we, but don't do it at the expense of more unemployment. Lower taxes, lower hirings and so the economy will grow, more people will be hired and the wages will be able to rise. However, what they have done has been to raise all taxes - a fiscal hell -: wealth, savings, income, also financial and technological transactions, and what is happening to it is that in the end it is rehearsed with 3 million autonomous, with 17 million drivers of diesel cars, and, as was always said, socialism fails when the money of others is run out. That is why it is of interest to the Spaniards that their government should fail before they once again ruin Spain. [[Several Members: Very well.- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Married, for this answer where you end up saying so many things that you don't understand what you want to say to us. [[Several Members: Ah!-Laughter]] It seems that I have understood something because in the end you have come to say that this government is raising taxes. I don't know what middle class you mean, those who charge more than EUR 130 000 in the IRPF or those who have a wealth of more than EUR 10 million? What I will tell you, Mr Casado, is that with you in the government, up to sixty taxes were raised, two thirds of taxes linked to VAT and the income tax of individuals. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, you talk about hostage and I see you and listen to you, besides, not only during the control sessions, but also during the weekends - when you leave authentic rhetorical pearls - but you, at the head of the People's Party, what it represents is that it is a hostage of your most immediate past, but also of your furthest past. Look, these are the accounts that Spain needs. What does Spain need, Mr. Casado? He needs social justice. If you look at what has happened during these years of growth, you see that the more powerful classes have benefited up to four times more than the less powerful classes, so what we have to do is share economic growth. What does that mean? That we have to raise the interprofessional minimum wage; it means we have to rebuild the welfare state; it means we have to strengthen the Unit Law, by the way, to fulfill what you did not fulfil when you were in government, 50% of the contribution by the General Administration of the State to the system of dependency, also co-financed by the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] That means, Mr Casado, that we also have to increase our potential growth, and that means increasing the budget in education, it also means increasing the budget in science, and it also means, Mr Casado, that we have to consolidate public accounts. These public accounts, Mr Casado, do for the first time for twelve years now recognize, collect and record a primary deficit or, rather, a primary surplus. We are making a 0.4 % cut in the adjustment of the structural budget, of the structural deficit, and what we are doing is cutting public debt for gross domestic product by 2 points, which you did not do. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u9	Thank you very much. - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, of the civic parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: What is the assessment made by the President of the Government of the current political situation? [[File number 180/000786]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u10	Question also addressed to the President... Silence! ...by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u11	Thank you, President. President of the Government, you have sent a document to Brussels which is a fake, which is a fraud, which is a lie. [[Protests]] You sent a document that was already left on wet paper last night, a document where you put a blast on the self-employed of 420 euros a year. He wants to put on the backs of the autonomous the weight of his agreement with Junqueras and with Churches. They put a blast on the drivers, 670 million. Do you know how much you intend to get out of there? More than the IRPF. They talk about raising taxes to the rich and for you a rich man is a man who fills the deposit to go to take his children to school or to go to work. Are those the rich, middle class gentlemen taking the car this morning to fill it up? A sablazo, Mr Sánchez, sablazo to the self-employed, sablazo to the drivers, to the investors. Are these the accounts that Spain needs? No, no, And you know the worst? That you have deceived the Spaniards and want to deceive Europe. It has led Europe a path that does not exist, it has led 1.8 and it does not respect this House, you or the institutions. This House, Mr Sánchez - I don't know if you know it - has not approved a 1.8 path, it is 1.3. You have to adapt to the path approved by this House. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, will you rectify and will you bring a 1.8 deficit path - which is what you propose - or will you lie to the Europeans and to all the Spanish? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u12	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u13	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, you should know something better before you ask the questions. We are not going to increase the minimum quotas to self-employed workers as a result of the inter-branch minimum wage by EUR 900. [[Applauds]] So take that idea out of your head and stop lying to the self-employed. Mr Rivera, we are going to present our budgets in December with a path of stability that is right now picked up and recognised by this Parliament, until that path of budgetary stability is revised, and you, both the Bureau of Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, stop obstructing a law that is won by the vote of the parliamentary majority in Congress. [[Applauds]] So stop lying, stop insulting, stop slandering and oppose, Mr Rivera. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Abandon the chrispation and return to moderation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u14	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u15	Mr. Sanchez, you're the one who's lying. In the document you sent to Brussels yesterday it says that it will put a blast of 1.5 million to the self-employed. One of two: or last night you changed your mind - I don't know if you have changed again this morning - or you have to put the sandstone on others. Who are they going to put the sandstone on if they don't put it on the self-sustaining? We already know that to the drivers. Who else? This document has become obsolete in 24 hours because you lie, you are a fraud, Mr Sánchez, and your documents are also a fraud. [[rumors]] Yes, fraud, because cheating on Brussels is fraud. Mr Sánchez, do you know why you lost the vote in this House? Because his partners didn't support him. Mr. Iglesias has to go to a prison to negotiate the budgets on his behalf. That is the problem, that with those who have given a blow to democracy in our country you are able to sit down and draw some accounts, not by the drivers or by the autonomous or by the middle class: to follow a quarter of an hour more in La Moncloa; a quarter of an hour more. But take advantage of the time, Mr. Sanchez, which is running out of time. Yeah, laugh. The Spaniards are sick of a president who doesn't go through the polls. You are afraid of the ballot box, and I ask you: Mr Sánchez, wouldn't it be better to end this fake, this fraud and call elections? I ask you to call elections, not to be afraid of the Spanish people. Let's vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u16	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u17	Thank you, Madam President. We raise taxes to the most powerful classes in this country, Mr Rivera: we raise the property tax a point precisely to the assets of more than 10 million euros, we raise 2 points the income tax of individuals to those who charge more than 130 000 euros or those who charge more than 200 000 euros, we raise taxes to large corporations that have an effective rate right now below 10%, while what we do is we lower 2 points the corporation tax to small companies that are currently charging less than 1 million euros a year. That is what the Spanish Government is proposing in this budget proposal, Mr Rivera. Do not deceive the Spaniards; do not deceive the Spaniards. I have respect for you, I hear you. I have told you before to oppose, to be consistent with your opposition. What cannot be done is that you asked for an interprofessional minimum wage of 1000 euros a month ten years ago, and now you say that raising 900 euros a month is a nightly measure. Mr Rivera, raising the interprofessional minimum wage to EUR 900 per month is not a nightly measure, it is a question of dignity at work, and this government is going to defend that wage rise in line with the European Social Charter. For you night off is raising the interprofessional minimum wage, so the cool thing for Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is that a million licensed workers in our country are at risk of poverty. The night off for Mr. Rivera is to defend feminism and the cool thing is simply to defend labor inequality or the quota system to end the glass ceiling or the cement ceiling... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u18	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ARE THE MEASURES THAT ARE GOING TO IMPLEMENT YOUR GOVERNMENT TO DIGNIFICATE AND END THE DISCRIMINATIONS OF TRANSEXUAL PERSONS AND THE REST OF THE LGTBI COLLECTIVE? [[File number 180/000769]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u19	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u20	Thank you very much, President. I understand that when Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera refer to beatings they will refer to Tejero, who still eats paellas in barracks of the Civil Guard. Mr Sánchez, Mr President, what steps does your Government intend to take to put an end to discrimination against transgender people and the LGBTI collective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Don't talk in the future, talk constantly, because we are already taking action from the first minute we enter La Moncloa. The first signal has been to place equality policies at the highest level of the Government, in the hands of the Vice-President of the Government. The Directorate-General for Equal Treatment and Diversity has been established within the Ministry of the Presidency. When I was a leader of the opposition we presented in this House, and right now it is in parliamentary process, a law against discrimination and for equal treatment, and we also know that there is another bill right now led by Unite Podemos in relation to the social equality of the LGBTI collective. What I would ask, taking advantage of your question, Mr Rufián, to the House as a whole, is for us to set aside partisan issues, for us to set aside ideological issues, and for us all to join in a broad consensus that I believe this collective needs. Of course we share your sensitivity and I can assure you, Mr Rufián, that we are committed to equality and against discrimination and against hate crimes, which are indeed increasing as a result of the polarisation that is being experienced in our society, also in the social sphere. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u24	Mr President, Mr Sánchez, I am only a vehicle today. I'm going to read you a collective writing: I'd like to live in a country where you can call me Alberto, Andrea or Maria Jesus, freely, regardless of what's on your legs. I would like to live in a country where no one judges me my stigmatizing me for sleeping with Alberto, with Andrea or with Mary Jesus. I'd like to live in a country where it's me and not my DNI who decides whether I'm a man or a woman. I would like to live in a country where I am not marginalized, insulted or assaulted for pretending to live and feel the way I want. I would like to live in a country where there are no labels for men and women, where heterosexuality is not presumed, and where having a vulva or a penis is no more important than being left-handed or right-handed. Mr President, I keep reading the letter: We live in a state where a law pathologicalizes transgender people, where a civil registry hinders the name change, where the police and the army criminalize the different, where the public authorities consider the homophobes of HazteOir, so friends of the People's Party and citizens, to be of public use. Mr Sánchez, I ask you, and with our support you can count on it to legislate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u26	And I thank you, Mr. Rufián, for that support. I certainly believe that throughout history, when the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party ruled, we have been those who have enlarged the territory of rights and freedoms, also for minorities and especially for the LGBTI collective. I would like to remind you that one of the first steps we took with this Government at the head of the institutions was to recover public funding for assisted reproduction of single women and the lesbian community, with which that commitment is beyond doubt. I must also announce to you that the Minister of Justice is meeting today precisely with the LGTBI collective to discuss these issues that you have told us in the letter. All I can tell you is that we want to fight all kinds of discrimination. You've made reference to this. I also believe that one in three children in our country should be mentioned as saying that there is school harassment in their class, and that means that there are probably many LGBTI children in the classrooms who suffer from such discrimination, such bullying. We are working on teacher training for the prevention and eradication of homophobic and transphobic bullying. This is also a commitment of the Government of Spain. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are two very important laws in the process, and I hope that in this legislature you can see the light with the consensus of all the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: ARE YOU ORGULLOSIS OF GOVERNMENT COORDINATION? [[File number 180/000777]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u28	I now ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, of Mrs Dolors Montserrat, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u29	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you are Vice-President and Coordinator of the Executive, and you also assume the Presidency in office on the continuous foreign tours of that universal Spanish that is Sánchez. [[Rumors]] You put a tremendous effort into coordination, but your government looks like the Marx brothers' cabin. Do you really feel proud of the coordination of the Government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u31	Thank you, Madam President. If you ask me for a feeling I will tell you what I have: that of constantly fulfilling my duty. [[Applauds.-A Member: To frame.-Several Members: Oh!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u32	Quiet. Mrs. Montserrat, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u33	Your Honor, let me quote stellar moments of coordination. In the area of freedoms: Pedro Sánchez threatens to complain to the critical media. Meanwhile, you and Mrs. Delgado use the official profiles of the ministries to attack the opposition and to make electoral propaganda. [[Rumors]] Moreover, you and your partners, in the face of the boocheos and the whistles to Mr Sánchez, think that it is disrespectful, but instead in the face of the whistles to the national symbols think that it is freedom of expression. You have the prostitutes bewildered. Mrs Valerio says that they are a goal for the squad; Mrs Delgado is the highest defender of her services, and her Andalusian socialist colleagues frequent prostitution with public money. [[Protests.-Several Members: Hey, hey!-Applause]] And you, as Minister of Equality...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u34	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u35	And you, as Minister of Equality, Andalusian and Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u36	I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u37	...who do you support? As far as decoordination is concerned, let me talk about ceasing. They have the most perplexed Garden. By an instrumental society they sent him to the moon; Borrell, Celaá and Pedro Duque continue on earth. And Monton says he doesn't understand anything, that he just plagiarismed the master's program... that is, the final master's program. [[Mr Sicilia Alferez, pointing to Mr Casado Blanco: Master's degree, master's degree]] Yeah, yeah. [[Mr. Zaragoza Alonso: You've lost yourself.-Protests.-Laughter]] And whoever plagiarismed the thesis continues to live and flee the Senate. And go if you coordinate! She's coordinating with Mrs. Delgado to just help out Judge Llarena. And Mr. Sanchez's chief of staff dismissed them. Mrs Calvo, you are completely uncoordinated, and more Pedro Sánchez, who confuses the public with the private, who doesn't know what his place is either in the government or in a Besamans. [[protests]] Mrs. Calvo, once and for all coordinate already, coordinate Moncloa, Waterloo, Galapagar dacha and the tavern herriko. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u38	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Montserrat, it was a performance, wasn't it? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Yours is the best I know as a People's Party cultural policy, but I'm going to tell you something. You asked me about a feeling and I'm going to answer it. Coordination is in the BOE and in people's lives: ten Community directives transposed. You left us as the last country in the European Union that does not include in its internal order the Community order, with fines for Spain; twelve royal decrees-laws; one plan against child poverty; one against labour exploitation; the Agenda 2030, which left it unanswered; a draft of the State General Budgets. [[applause]] What would you call that? What would you call it? As you, in your artistic daring, place me every Wednesday in this situation, I will answer you. Look, you were part of a government where the president used to say: I don't know; I didn't know; I don't know; nobody told me. I will make it very clear to you: what this Government is doing is coordination, in Spanish. [[Rumors]] To what you did, search for the name. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u40	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEVELOPED ANNUAL MARCELLO SANTOS, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT PLAN OF REINDUSTRIALIZATION HAS THE MINISTER THOUGHT Is it after the age of the business that you wear in the lion's province? [[File number 180/00774]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u41	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Anne Marcello Santos, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u42	Thank you, President. What reindustrialization plan does the minister intend to carry out after the ERE of the Vestas company in the province of León?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Marcello, since 27 August, when Vestas announced the closure of the Villadangos del Páramo factory in León, the government began to work to find a solution that would address the negative impact on employment and the productive fabric of the area. After the announcement we requested an urgent meeting with the company representatives to know the reasons for the decision, a meeting we held the following day in Valladolid, where I participated with the president of the Board of Castile and Leon. We both insist on the need to give an industrial outlet to the productive unit and to maintain employment, and we demand a commitment from the company to undertake a reindustrialisation plan. Subsequently, as you know, a working group was set up to define a set of actions to develop this reindustrialisation project. After intense work, on 10 October a general framework for action was signed where the Ministry of Industry, Workers' Commissions, UGT and Vestas set out measures to alleviate the orderly cessation in a coordinated manner, as I say, with the social agents and the company, and to seek an industrial solution to the factory and which also includes plans for the relocation and training of the workers concerned. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u45	Mrs. Marcello, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u46	Look, minister, just like I know that Vestas settled in Leon more than ten years ago thanks to the transfer of land and the more than 15 million grants received. After the regulatory time required by the subsidies to remain in operation, without imposing a fine or a penalty on the company, the company at that time presents an ERE taking production to China, despite having more than 236 million profits, and this directly affects more than 300 direct jobs, more than 200 temporary jobs and more than 2000 indirect jobs. This, Minister, means a total ERE to the province of León. And do you know what the workers have done in the face of this attack? Self-organizing and declaring itself in more than three months of indefinite strike, and camping in front of the factory to prevent it from being dismantled. And do you know what the workers tell us every time we meet with them? We must end this looting, we must end the policy of deindustrialisation and the processes of delocalisation that are taking place in our country. [[Applauds]] And for that, minister, there is only one question: tough hand against multinationals. It is not acceptable for the pockets of public subsidies to be filled in a country and when they have looted enough they leave with the money leaving the workers behind. We really do not know what the reindustrialisation and relocation plan is for workers in 2017, but I do say, Minister, that if what your government is negotiating as an alternative to Vestas is to attract vulture investment funds with the same idea of looting public money and profit leaks, we do not count. Because, Minister, it is not understandable that a government that has a Ministry of Ecological Transition should not intervene to prevent a company for the construction of renewable energy from closing, and that everything should happen in the same province, where mines are being closed in a disorganized way and where thermal power plants are being closed without guaranteeing an alternative to work. Leon, unfortunately, is not an isolated case of reindustrialisation processes, it also happens in the Naval of Sestao and in the shipyards. Therefore, Minister, if we want a country with a future, it has to be a country with industry and quality employment. And for that you have to be brave, either you're with the working people or you're with the multinationals. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u48	Your Honor, as you know, this government has acted immediately and responsibly after the closure of the Vestas factory in León. As I say in just six weeks we have agreed with the company and the unions - by the way they represent the workers - a framework for action, an agreement that includes measures to maintain industrial capacities in the factory until the end of 2019. The agreement also contains a commitment to look for industrial investors that will, as I say, keep new projects on the plant. As you know, we are having contacts with potential investors, but until we assess their viability we will not make them public so as not to generate false expectations for workers, something that others are not doing. In addition, one of the demands of the ministry that is contained in the agreement is the commitment of Vestas to facilitate the acquisition of the facilities to potential investors. I want to point out that this agreement is open to the incorporation of any other agent or public administration that decides to join; I hope that you in this responsible opposition will also join in seeking solutions, and from the ministry we will activate the projects that we have of industrial support to finance any viable project that gives continuity to the productive unit and guarantees the greatest number... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u49	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRANETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO THE SITUATION OF NAVAL SHIPYARD? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[NORTHERN NAVAL CONSTRUCTIONS, S.L.]] [[File number 180/000772]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u50	Question also addressed to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism of Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u51	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning, minister. Today again this group has to reiterate a question that we have already asked almost a year and a half ago about La Naval de Sestao, and it is that again this company is in a situation of difficulty because it has requested an ERE of extinction, so we ask it: What position does this new government have in relation to the situation of La Naval de Sestao? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Sagastizabal, as you know, the Government considers the shipyard Construções Navales del Norte, known as La Naval de Sestao, an industrial project of vital importance not only to the Basque economy, but also to the Spanish economy for its contribution to GDP, its drag on the auxiliary industry and, above all, for the direct and indirect jobs it generates. That is why, since I hold the Ministry of Industry, I have followed very directly the situation in La Naval, which, as you know, and I have just said, was already in a delicate situation. Since the opening of the liquidation phase of the company was made public, as the shipowner failed to close the undertaking for the ship to end in the shipyard of Sestao and as the legal deadlines for the submission of a creditor agreement have expired, the Ministry of Industry acted immediately and in coordination with the Basque Government, the shipowner and the workers' representatives. We are currently looking for an industrial solution, analyzing all possible scenarios, to ensure the continuity of the shipyard's activity and employment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u55	Thank you. Madam Minister, we would still like to see more concrete action because in the privatization of the Naval de Sestao we understand that the Government of Spain had a lot to do with it. His Government had a shared responsibility with La Naval because in 2005 the Government of the State had decided to extinguish the Izar shipyards and, therefore, to privatize the four shipyards engaged in civil construction, including La Naval. Today we have to say that three of them have already disappeared. The rest were engulfed in Navantia, to which the military business was reserved. A decision, privatization, with which the Basque Government was of course very critical. It is true that SEPI reserved for Navantia the military shipbuilding, but it must be said that since 2015 it can also operate in the civil business, therefore, without any limitation and making the competition to the rest of the shipyards for the markets for the construction of gas ships or even marine wind platforms, elements of high added value, in which everyone has to find positions. In addition, it does so under conditions far more advantageous than the rest of the private shipyards, because it has public funding, industrialization plans, financial plans for its sanitation and other types of aid that others lack, including in the search for contracts. The result of this privatization was also the pact that granted special protection to the staff of La Naval with a period of ten years and by which Navantia undertook to rescue the workers in the event of dismissal by reduction of the staff or by closure of the shipyard. That is not enough for, first, the personal and family implications that could lead to and, second, because behind the Sestao Naval there is not only a direct employment of about 200 people, but also an important auxiliary industry that generates about 1500 indirect jobs. In addition, we believe that this is somewhat paradoxical if we take into account that Navantia is currently immersed in a new business plan in which it seems that a staffing adjustment is also envisaged. We are aware that we cannot go to a publication in the strict sense by European legislation. For this reason, the Basque Government is also working to seek investors who trust the shipowner and can complete the work and the possibility that the Governments can make an investment in the form of a contribution. But what is at stake is to find a solution that is not short-term, that gives continuity to the shipyard, a structural solution. That is why we want a greater commitment from your Government and we ask you to meet with...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u57	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal, as you know, the company is in voluntary competition with creditors in liquidation and is therefore subject to the management of the competition administrators. In this context, the ministry I run follows very closely the development of the procedure and, at the moment, we are working on the search, as I said, for an industrial solution for what is necessary, as you know, the entry of new interested private investors. The Ministry cannot grant public aid, as you have said, because it is not permitted by European competition law. A scenario in which we are working, and which we believe is the most reasonable, is to get the construction of the current ship that has the shipyard in its portfolio, which would allow more time for the entry of these interested investors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, within the limitations we have for European legislation, we are working responsibly with the Basque Government, with the trade unions and with the company to reach a satisfactory agreement with the aim of saving the largest number of jobs in the shipyard and, to the extent possible, to continue the construction of the current ship to promote the entry of new private investors. I assure you that we are working responsibly and in a very coordinated manner and the commitment of this Government is to give a definitive solution to this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u58	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT RAMON GARCIA HERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMULATING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: HOW HAS PRIVILEGATED INFORMATION ON ABOVE BEEN USED? [[File number 180/000779]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u59	Questions now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mr José Ramón García Hernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u60	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the National Securities Market Commission has stated that it is true that you used privileged information to sell shares that could result in a loss of property and, it is true, that you have described this as a very serious infringement, and you are now being punished. How did you use that information? Another question I ask you, please, to answer is whether President Sánchez knew this point before appointing him Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u61	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u62	Your Honor, I have not acted on the basis of privileged information in the management of the securities portfolio of those entrusted to me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. García Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u64	Mr Minister, that is not what the dossier or the sanction says, but I should like to warn you that you are facing a moral rather than a political dilemma. The first moral dilemma is that you can constitute the sixth case, and provoke the seventh case, which affects your Government, because if you raise an appeal you will have to solve your partner, the Minister of Economy. I also want to tell you, and this has to be taken into account, that you have made different claims saying that 9000 euros of those shares were not just money, but it is not just money compared to the 2 million euros you collected for being part of Abengoa's council, being the best paid independent advisor of that entity just before your crisis, and so it is collected by different media. What's this lead to? That you when you say you could have sold your shares know you couldn't do it with the current Securities Market Act. I also give you a somewhat more general reflection, but you must take it into account. In other countries, and that is a comparative right, this same sanction carries a very serious crime. [[Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation makes negative gestures]] Yes, sir, a Republican senator from the State of New York was in the same situation. But I tell you one more thing, you don't have to go to comparative law, because here this leads to disqualification to be part of any board of directors of any company, according to the code of good practices and uses of companies, but it doesn't seem so to be part of the Council of Ministers of the Kingdom of Spain. That is a reflection that you must make and, therefore, I told you that your decision must be moral, above all, but take advantage of this answer to ask for forgiveness from the person or persons who bought those shares and lost the 9,000 euros. As a result of that process, the National Court also opened a trial in 2005, where you had to go and testify. What I say to you is very easy, Pedro Sánchez is not going to let you fall, but you are losing your trajectory and your responsibility; from minimum minister to sublime minister, today I have to tell you that your responsibility is not to defend or be a human shield, like the other ministers, of a government president whom the Spaniards did not choose. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u65	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u66	Your Honor, I must admit that the transaction for the sale of shares for a limited value of EUR 9000 of a portfolio whose management had been entrusted to me and which represented a very, very small part of the total number of shares on which I had the capacity to operate, was not adequate for the time when it occurred and for the appearance of irregularity that it has been able to generate. It was a mistake which, according to our legislation, can constitute only an administrative fault and which, moreover, does not affect, according to the legislation in force, the conditions which establish my suitability for exercising a ministerial function. But I must also say that I do not share the CNMV's resolution and that I have kept it straight throughout the processing of the file that I did not make use of information that I could have obtained in my capacity as advisor. I maintain this conviction today, and I am convinced that it would be recognized to bring it before the courts. Your Honor, it doesn't make any sense that if someone has inside information, they just sell only a very, very small part of the portfolio they manage. If I had had this information, I would not have suffered the very, very high losses I endured as Abengoa's shareholder, as I lost almost all of my investment. The resolution of the CNMV is not firm on an administrative basis; do not take it for granted, it is not firm. And I certainly have the opportunity to appeal this decision. But you have said this: in order to go to the courts of justice, I have to go through a necessary and inevitably a prior appeal to the Ministry of Economy, which today raises the abnormal situation in which a minister appeals to the government of which he is a member, which I do not think is politically correct because it can be presented as a conflict of interest and whatever the resolution of the appeal would give rise to politically interested interpretations. That's why I understand... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u67	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, Borrell Fontelles, continues to speak]] Time's up, thank you very much. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: It's not over yet!-Protests]] Time's up. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]] - of Mrs Melisa Rodrigez Hernandez, in the replacement of Mr Juno Carlos Girauta Vidal, of the Parliamentary Group of the European Community, which forms the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation: Will the Government of Spain join the petition for research into the regime of nicolated women by humanities in the International Criminal Court? [[File number 180/000787]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u68	Quiet. [[Rumors and Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence! Question by Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u69	Minister, in the face of the serious crisis in Venezuela, what position will your Government adopt, that of connivance with the regime, led by Mr Zapatero, or will it position itself with the different countries that have decided to defend the Venezuelan people? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u70	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u71	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the political situation is part of our greatest concern in foreign policy. We have always pointed out that the only solution that would allow Venezuela to resume a democratic and socio-economic prosperity scenario is a negotiated exit between the Venezuelans themselves, which is, by the way, the same solution proposed by the European Union and the majority of the Venezuelan opposition. In line with this, we have not adhered to the request to investigate the Venezuelan Government for crimes against humanity in the International Criminal Court, nor has it, for example, done so in Mexico. There is already a procedure under way within that Court through a preliminary investigation that the prosecutor opened in February, and I believe that there should be no interference with another process. But, above all, we cannot adhere to the request for a question of opportunity: this could negatively affect the possibility of establishing a dialogueal way out of the conflict. We believe that there are other channels that can be more effective. The High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms. Michelle Bachelet, can contribute to this. He is going to travel to Venezuela; let us hope that the Venezuelan authorities will invite him to do so and that he will carry out an independent investigation, for example, into the death of the Councillor of First Justice, Mr Fernando Albán. And I would like to remind you that the Spanish Government has been the first Government of the European Union to issue a note condemning this situation and requesting explanations from the Ambassador of Venezuela to Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u73	If you say that the Venezuelan people want that, then we do not understand why it is precisely the Venezuelan people that is asking Spain to position itself with much more roundness. There are things about your Government that I don't know what makes me blush any more; I don't know whether to use, for example, the Aquarius to take a picture instead of talking about immigration policy or blushing more than looking elsewhere with what is happening in Venezuela. Europe has already said that it will not soften its position. Spain's still looking the other way. This House approved the extension of sanctions for the senior leaders of Mr Maduro's government. Your position can only be justified by two situations, either because Mr Iglesias is asked to do so or, two, because they are covering up Mr Zapatero, Minister. Don't you see what's going on? Don't you see what's going on in Venezuela? Venezuelans, as I have already told you, are not merchandise, it is not about whether they are extradited or not, whether they come out... Venezuelan citizens are citizens of law, of law; that people have welcomed many of us. Imagine what would happen if you or I get pulled off a tenth floor simply because we think differently from the government. Can you imagine? Because I don't want that to happen, but besides what I'm talking about, I'm not telling you about hearing, I have family in Venezuela. Many of us here have families in Venezuela, and they see that their cousins or direct relatives leave the country because they can no longer bear the pressure that exists there, and that those who remain are left without means and simply by defending with pride, with pride, what they have worked for so many years and that someone wants to take them away. I only say one thing, Mr Borrell, with Citizens in the Government of Spain, Spain is not going to look elsewhere; Spain is going to join Canada, it is going to join Colombia, it is going to join France to denounce what is happening before the International Criminal Court, because Spain does not have to abandon much of the citizens of our country, since there are many Spaniards living in Venezuela and we also have many Venezuelans living here, in Spain. Do not abandon a people that has been the first in asylum applications for three years! That means that something is happening and Spain, unfortunately, is doing nothing, and I hope it is not to protect Mr Zapatero. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u74	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u75	Your Honor, we're not looking the other way, we're looking directly at Venezuela. I am in constant contact with members of the Venezuelan opposition, those who are in Harvard and those who are in prison in their homes. What we're saying is exactly what Mrs. Mogherini says. Is Mrs. Mogherini a secret agent of Mr. Churches? No, we're saying the same thing Mrs. Mogherini says. We have voted for personal sanctions against members of the Venezuelan Government. We voted for them in Brussels. We have never intended to change them, we have never intended to change the pressure on the regime. What we have said is that, in addition to that - in that there is a majority within the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union -... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u76	Minister, your time is up. [[Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, Borrell Fontelles, continues to speak]] Your time is up, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF THE EUGENIA ROMERO RODRIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE USE OF PUBLIC MONEY PAID PROSTITUTION? [[File number 180/000778]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u77	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. First of all, a question from Mrs María Eugenia Romero Rodríguez of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what do you think of the use of public money to pay for prostitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u79	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Romero, any kind of exploitation to which a woman is subjected seems denigrating to me, and if she also contributes to that exploitation with the use of public money, I find it disgusting and, of course, worthy of our strongest condemnation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u81	Mrs. Romero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u82	Thank you, Minister. You will agree with me that there are signs of active struggle for equality, against sexual exploitation and against the cosification of women. We agree to the State Pact against Gender Violence. Town halls have been using deterrent measures and even fines for customers for years. And what do we find in my land? Your Honor, clients who paid with public money in the brothels, with black cards of directors of the Faffe, foundation of the Andalusian socialist government, in brothels of Cordoba, Cadiz and with the epicenter in my province, Seville: sordid situation. Above all, it is described as a commercial activity: a denigrating qualification of an activity that most sexually exploits women and girls. We can no longer trample on the fight for equality. Between 2004 and 2010 three of the eight black cards associated with current accounts with 828 million euros, of the Andalusian Board, were used, so far known, 43 times in brothels: 31 969 euros. Since 2014, when a report from the House of Auditors on the Faffe, which detected EUR 50 million with irregular aid, has been missing, we have been asking for explanations and information in the Andalusian Parliament; information that the Andalusian Government has not given us. The commission of inquiry has not been able to function because of the electoral advance nor has the president been able to appear in it. Mrs Díaz also described these facts as repugnant, but why did she hide information from Parliament? Why did they say first that it was only 1800 euros and then that it was 16,000, but returned? What is in the accounting records of those thirteen boxes that the UCO has requested since July 13, 2016 and that after two and a half years have not been given? Why the lid, look away and shut up, if it's so disgusting? Your Honor, the EREs, the Faffe, and today we are having breakfast with this: My land has been wasting too much time for the sewers of corruption and mismanagement. They mean 3500 million job opportunities for people on my land. [[Mrs. Romero Rodríguez shows the ABC cover.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u83	Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Romero, as I said a moment ago, the use of public money for private purposes seems to me to be totally reprehensible and if, moreover, it is used for purposes such as those mentioned here, it is disgusting. And this is the same thing that happens in Andalusia, Majorca or Azerbaijan. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u85	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u86	In Spain, more than 45 000 women, boys and girls are victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking, and we are the European country with the most consumption of prostitution, which generates terrible income and reaches a truly scandalous billions of euros. The Socialist Party is a party that has always made clear its opposition to this terrible phenomenon. For us prostitution is not a profession, but an attack on the dignity and freedom of thousands of women and thousands of creatures who are forced to exercise it forcibly by mafias or who are so horrified by marginalization or despair. Prostitution is a more form of slavery, and this Government does not advocate its regulation or prohibition, but rather its abolition. This socialist Government has a strong position of protection for the most vulnerable and victims of sexual exploitation. I hope we find ourselves on this path. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Beatriz Marta Escudero Berzal, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of Justice: Does it seem lawful to argue against the opposition through the official social networks of the Ministry of Justice? [[File number 180/000780]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u87	Question also addressed to the Minister of Justice of the Member, Ms Beatriz Marta Escudero Berzal, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, does it seem lawful to accuse the opposition through the official networks of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Escudero, at no time have the social networks of the Ministry of Justice been used to accuse any opposition party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u91	Mrs. Escudero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u92	Let's see what you think of this tweet from the Ministry of Justice last week: The right is trying to take advantage of this blackmail with the sole aim of preventing this Government from continuing to advance on a path of democratic regeneration, transparency and social and territorial cohesion. I hope that the head of social networks of the Ministry of Justice has ceased. If you've already quit your head of communication, because quit one more doesn't matter, as long as you stay in office. He has used an institutional twitter to give a partisan and partisan view, which is anything but impartial, and does not fall within the scope of his ministry, Your Honor. The Ministry of Justice is not yours, nor is it the Socialist Party, but all the Spanish, but you have made it a political propaganda branch of the Socialist Party. Minister, the twitters and the official accounts do not make politics because they belong to all the Spaniards and we pay all the Spaniards with our money, and all you have to do is report the government's action and not accuse or attack part of the Spaniards or wash the image of all the ministers as you are using all of you with your accounts; nor use that public money to make electoral propaganda. Madam Minister, are you going to go doped up to the elections? It's just that you're confusing everything! Absolutely everything! [[Laughter]] The vice president said that the public money was of everyone and you that the blackmail that is done to your person is state blackmail. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u93	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u94	Even the president himself was confused last week, who wanted to be the king of Spain. Is this the agency? Is this how you advance on the democratic regeneration agenda? Is this democracy for you? Of course, with you and your partners, Spanish democracy is in danger. Justice is not political and it is denigrating and unworthy to see that its highest representative distills sectarianism on all sides. You want to be more socialist than socialists, and you are not the minister of the Ministry of Development, but the minister of the Ministry of Justice, to whom you are leading to the sewers with which you have such a good relationship. Madam Minister, in politics and in life it is not only necessary to be, but it is necessary to look like it. You're going like Sleepy Hollow's head rider today. He's lost all his reputation. It lacks credibility with the officials of the ministry, the prosecutors, the magistrates, the lawyers, the procurators and with everyone, Your Honor, because all Spain has heard it speak with the cloacas of the State. You've heard her call her partner a faggot, you've heard her say she prefers uncles' courts to aunts' courts, and we all know what she thinks about sexual exploitation, although now publicly she says something else. Stop whining and becoming the victim. His only defense is that the recordings are illegal. Can you tell me what the maintenance and dissemination of Mrs. Cifuentes' recording was like? Stop being a angry girl and be a minister of the Government of Spain. If you want... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u95	Your time's up. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, on the 10th last day, my appearance at the parliamentary seat was to explain the Government's position on certain matters at the request of several parliamentary groups and also at its own request. As usual, the Ministry of Justice uses different means to communicate its positions, as does the press releases. Indeed, social networks were used by the Ministry of Justice as another channel through which to communicate the development of attendance. I can admit that in the execution of this communication there may have been a lack of intercommission to make it clear that these were the statements of the respondent and not official statements of the Ministry of Justice, but beyond that I cannot admit that we were accused of misuse of social media, because it was not so. In that appearance what I did were contextualizations derived both from the media and from the findings of the Commission of Inquiry into the so-called Operation Catalonia, and all this was public and notorious. I share with you the importance of these channels of communication, although what is really important here is the veracity of the contents that are being transmitted; and at this point I assure you that this Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group will never use false or manipulated information, let alone to make policy. We do politics from the government, which you did not do in six years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u97	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA JESUS MORO ALMARAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE REAFFIRMED IN WHICH SHE HAS NOT LIE? [[File number 180/00781]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u98	Question by Mrs María Jesús Moro Almaraz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, since Villarejo's recordings were made public at the 2009 meal you attended, we know you wanted to hide your relationship with him. We know of cheating to arbitrarily change to police officers of destination, of exchanging confidences about cases opened at the National Court, their sordid assessment of fellow judges, the alleged knowledge of crimes with minors or the consent to the creation of a sexual exploitation network for extortion. You still claim you haven't lied? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u100	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Moro, yes; I reaffirm myself; I have not lied, Mrs. Moro. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Moro Almaraz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u103	Of course you lied! Repeatedly, with light and stenographers, inside and outside this House in which on Wednesday he did everything but report with transparency. Of course he had something to do with Villarejo! We have all known, even to your regret, the familiarity of treatment and the exchange of information and actions on which you were obliged to refuse and denounce. He wants to move page and skins to the sea!, but it's not possible. You have lied to your peers when you have committed offences against minors, or you have not acted as a prosecutor. You nodded, rejoiced, and surely took advantage of the commission of crimes of sexual exploitation of women, when you did nothing after the joyful confessions of Villarejo. Can't you understand that it's no longer possible to trust you? How many times did the law skip, hide, misrepresent, manipulate, and commission fake investigations? If this were a case and you were the prosecutor, you'd open up an investigation yourself. You, under your makeup of false progress and feminist, defend that there is no equality because women have an undisputed advantage and because they prefer guys. Of course you lied, Minister, and did not fulfil your obligation to promote the action of justice and to defend legality. In all this it has squandered trust and credibility. And of course he has also had a shameful intervention to prevent the extradition of Ligorría with the effects linked to Pérez-Maura. He did not abstain, he sanctified the report of lawyer Vergara, who incorporated as an adviser to the ministry, and always the same actors: Villarejo and Garzón. Minister, bury victimism; you are a victim of yourself. Now we know he went down to hell to win stardom at the National High Court. Be careful to apologize to the victims for their interventions and now always incorporate this: Against sexual exploitation. [[Show some pictures.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u104	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Moro, this is not a control session. They want to make an erosion of the government; they want to make this government legitimate as it is; they repeat, repeat, they give it equal manipulations and falsehoods. [[protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u106	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u107	With saying it, saying it and saying it, maybe, Mrs. Moro, you end up believing it and everything. You, who work for citizenship, don't care. [[Laughs.-A honourable Member: Well!]] Session after control session, all members of the government are explaining what we do, what we work for the citizenry, and you just want to erode. I've given full explanations not only in different control sessions... [[Rumors.-Several Members: No, no]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u108	Silence! THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE :..., but also through my appearance, exactly those circumstances on which I had to explain. [[Delgado García]] If you simply forgot the lies, the manipulations, the false news and came here to talk about something else, we would talk, for example, Mrs. Moro, about something you know: the repeal of section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which, do you know why it is not repealed? [[rumors]] Because all you do is ask for an extension of the deadline for amendments to this rule. On September 3, his leader, Mr. Married, met with members of the associations of judges and prosecutors. He promised them that he would repeal section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which covers impunity among other corruption crimes, and note what happened the following day to meet with associations: that the People's Party was again asked for an extension of the deadline for amendments. [[rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours. Laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u109	Quiet. The MINISTER OF JUSTICE: That, Mrs. Moro, is not to keep the word given to the associations to which it was used; that would have to be to do politics, which you no longer know, because in six years you have forgotten. [[Delgado García]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONATION ALFONS CANDON ADAN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, THAT FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOESN'T YOU THINK THE SPAIN HAVE REASONS TO BE ORGULOUS? [[File number 180/000782]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u110	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Alfonso Candón Adán, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u111	Minister, Spain is a great country with a great history, with a huge cultural legacy, with citizens who have given the size in adverse circumstances and with an Armed Forces that are a source of satisfaction and pride. Don't you think the Spaniards have reason to be proud?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u112	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u113	Thank you, Madam President. As you ask me as Minister of Defence, I will answer that yes, the Spanish citizens have the right to feel deeply proud of the Armed Forces, an Armed Forces to which the Government of your party has promised a cycle of investors that it has not fulfilled. He promised them some programs, which he didn't. He promised them wages, which he didn't pay. They have bases and quarters in absolutely unfortunate conditions, you wouldn't want them for your home. Despite this, our Armed Forces are carrying the Spanish flag very high: on peace missions abroad, here in Spain protecting our constitutional rights and, when the time comes, there is the Military Emergency Unit, for example in Majorca, helping citizens. Yes, we have the right and obligation to be proud of the Armed Forces, as this Government feels, and it will do its utmost to try to do everything you have not done to care for and protect the Armed Forces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u114	Mr. Candon, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u115	This politics thing was already binding on me. You call everyone an anti-patriot. Looking at the hemeroteca, ZP accused those who warned him of the crisis that was looming over Spain, of antipatriots, and did not see the one you linked. We also call our President, Pablo Casado, an anti-patriot for denouncing the budgets before the European Union, which will create a disastrous economic situation. And that for you is antipatriotism. Minister, if there is anything you have shown that you are a joy to Spain - to our history, to our symbols and to our freedom - we do not know whether on your own initiative or not to bother your occupation partners. In the last celebration of the National Day of Spain there was a total absence of institutional campaign in the media, without press conference, with two advertising spots that were broadcast through social networks and that have been rated as the worst for many years. They resent the flag of Spain to such an extent that the PSOE of the Assembly of Murcia has sent the People's Party to remove the flag from its office; to the point of removing it from institutional messages, or even to the point of removing it from the door of the palace of La Moncloa when Mr Sánchez receives Mr Torra. They lack respect for the monarchy or at least tolerate disrespect and compromise with their partners of We can change the crime of insulting the king, something they do not apply when the people whistle at the president of the government and you say that this is a lack of respect. But when you do it to the king, it seems that it is not disrespectful to you, even if you now take the King's reprobation to court over the Parliament of Catalonia. It lacks respect for the Spaniards, those who try to bleed to taxes to pay their favors; journalists, those who try to gag; the Senate, to which they try to supplant. In general, the lack of respect for democracy that, by the way, this year is forty years old. Madam Minister, this is a drawing that my seven-year-old son made, which I think is more proud to be... [[shows a drawing with the colors of the flag of Spain]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u116	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Candón, prepare the questions well. Have some respect... [[Rumors]] Yes, I respect the 4,000 men and women who paraded National Day and the thousands of men and women who were preparing that parade. Have some respect even for this minister, who was inaugurating the 175th anniversary of the Spanish flag. I will tell you one thing, this Government is deeply proud of the Spanish. But do you know which Spaniards? Of those pensioners to whom you submitted to a certain situation by not wanting to revalue pensions... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u118	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u119	Of those dependent on whom you did not want to support. Of those young people who had to leave Spain because you did not invest in R+D+i. [[Rumors]] Of those women who have had to suffer a salary gap of 23%. Of those workers who have been subjected to precarious work, three out of four jobs were temporary jobs. This Government is proud of those Spaniards and will continue to work for them. And of course little patriot is that leader of his party who goes outside Spain to complain about Spain, his government and the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER UNDERSTAND THAT IN IMMIGRATION IS 'ALL CONTROLLED'? [[File number 180/000784]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u120	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u121	Minister, you said you have everything under control in immigration. Is it ratified?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Rojas, to have everything under control you have to have a plan, to have a plan you have to have objectives to which it is directed. What are the objectives of this Government? Those missing from the People's Party Government: generating a real migration policy, a migration policy at the international level and a migration policy at the national level by ensuring and providing the necessary security and protection. How do you get that? It is achieved by strengthening relations with countries such as Morocco, Algeria, Senegal and Mauritania, an issue on which we have shrunk all this time and successfully. How do you get it too? With policies as they are being done in Europe and as they will soon be seen at this week's European Council. How do we address those goals or how do we achieve them? Fighting, in the first place, against the mafias. Legality is not permissive. How do we get it too? Working for a legal and orderly migration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Rojas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u125	For now, Minister, your plan is called a so-called effect. It has been an out of control in these four months what you are doing on immigration issues, probably because the government is out of control and you spend time supporting yourself. They have undermined the credit of the institutions: look at how the Ministry of Justice is doing, Your Honor. You have a trajectory. The minister does not hold a second in her position. What we're seeing here every morning is a government that's a disaster, that doesn't count, that has no control, and in immigration everything is worse, Your Honor. Every day we have a new episode. For example, this week, the Minister spokeswoman of the Government said that €3 million was earmarked for a CIE in Motril. Well, two days ago the government delegate in Andalusia said that his government's spokesman minister is lying. Ladies and gentlemen, where's control? You'll have to give more explanations here. Immigration must be legal, orderly, linked to a contract of employment, in cooperation with Africa and the fight against the mafia. You said it today, but they're not exercising it every day. The truth is that in these four months you have put the situation up in terms of immigration with a so-called very clear effect: two thousand people in seventy-two hours have arrived in pateras to our country because the so-called effect you have created is very clear - and everyone says it - with the Aquarius and then with removing the concertinas, even if they have not finally done so. They are giving messages that do not benefit anyone: neither the people who play life crossing the sea nor the security of the State, the borders or the autonomous communities, who have to take care of unaccompanied minors. Do you know how many have arrived in what we have been doing from 2018 to September? There are 11,000 unaccompanied minors, ladies and gentlemen; 134% more than last year. This is the situation. By the way, 50% of them are in Andalusia, which also does nothing to improve the situation. There are two socialist administrations, the Government of Spain and Junta de Andalucía, which do not give solutions to the Spanish because socialism does not serve to give solutions to the Spanish, Your Honor. Stop toasting to the sun and that everything is controlled in immigration and work for Spain, to look less at you and to work for our country, which is what we need. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u126	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. As for the references you make to the so-called effect, I would simply say that what you have been doing since you are in the opposition is a call to xenophobia. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We are simply calling for a controlled immigration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u128	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u129	We, from 2016 to 2017... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u130	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u131	...illegal immigration grew in Spain by 170%. You didn't do anything. We, since we've been in the government... [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: We, we]] On 6 July, thanks to this Government, an emergency trust fund for Morocco was approved within the framework of the European Union. We've created a single control command. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u132	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u133	A committee delegated within the Council of Ministers. We've generated new CATE with more seats. And you know what I'm basically saying to you? You talk about immigration, but then you've gone to other subjects, to other ministries. And you know why it's controlled? Because we have State Security Forces and Bodies that work tirelessly every day, NGOs that do the same, municipalities of all political parties that do the same, and we are not in the front line of the newspapers. [[Applauds.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: We Socialists]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u134	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO DO WITH REGARD TO THE APPLICATIONS PLANNED IN THE AGENCIES OF THE CHANGE IN MAREA? [[File number 180/000771]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u135	Questions now to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Firstly, question by Mr Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u136	Are you going to fulfill your government with Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u138	Thank you, President. Mr Gómez-Reino, you know that the Galician agenda is very much in line with the priorities of this government. Social justice is also essential for us, non-discrimination on the basis of gender, social cohesion, territorial cohesion or diversity, among many other things. From these principles and with these objectives we work, as all socialist governments have always done. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u140	I am not speaking to you today on behalf of my parliamentary group alone, nor am I speaking to you on behalf of our voters alone. Today we speak to you on behalf of Galicia, I speak to you as a Galician militant. Today we bring to this House what we have already transferred to your Government, the 'Galega Agenda for Change', the 'Galega Agenda for Change'. It goes far beyond a proposal from our parliamentary group to his Government. We are talking about the package of measures and majority demands that the people of Galicia demand from the State. Almost all of the proposals on this agenda involve the majority will of Galician citizens and have been supported by both civil society and most political forces in Galicia. These are proposals with which Members of the People's Party and the Socialist Party agree when voting in Galicia. But what happens many times? They say one thing in Galicia and vote the opposite in Madrid, they say one thing when they are in opposition and sometimes they do the opposite when they are in government. So we're just asking for consistency. What we propose to you is very basic: to fulfil the commitments that the State has made to Galicia. No favors, we're just talking about justice. When we say transfer the AP-9 we say self-government and we also say public management and not private management of the main infrastructure connecting the Atlantic axis of Galicia. When we say heal the rivers we say value fishing and value the environment. When we say Meirás we say recover the democratic memory of our people. When we say dairy, fishing or shipbuilding, we say that our productive sectors are respected. And when we say autonomous financing we say that the inhabitants of Fisterra have to have the same services and rights as those of Madrid. We have presented the Galician agenda to you in a positive way, with a willingness to cooperate. However, they are the basic lines that constitute the minimums to meet Galicia. No excuses, Minister. These five Members and 2 700 000 Galicians and expect and demand progress and answers. Galicia demands change. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u141	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u142	Thank you, President. Since that coincidence and vocation of pact we have already reached a budgetary agreement last week. To cite only three examples that are included in this budgetary agreement: the increase in minimum and widow's pensions, which corresponds to point 26 of the Galician agenda; the dependency effort, which corresponds to point 29, or the increase in R & D+i, taking on the priority of recovering scientific talent, which corresponds to point 16. I would also like to highlight how this Government is working and prioritising autonomous State-community relations, multilateral relations but also bilateral relations, which corresponds to point 2 of its Galician agenda. In this regard, the Government undertakes to agree with the Government of the Galician Board on the establishment of this bilateral commission to address issues such as territorial policy, infrastructure, development, finance, culture or industry, and many of the things that you mentioned I am sure can be dealt with within that bilateral commission. Finally, this government is also committed to the fulfilment of things as sensitive as the agenda and the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which I know is also of concern to you and you know that it is a personal commitment of this minister. This corresponds to point 3, in the same way that we also consider it important to enhance the development of Article 3 of the Constitution, which recognizes the different Spanish languages. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u143	Thank you very much. - THE DEPARTMENT OF GONZALEZ ELORZA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT ARE THE MEASURES IN WHICH HER MINISTRY WORKS TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY IN THE ACTIONS OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD? [[File number 180/000785]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u144	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Odón Elorza González. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u145	Thank you. Minister, the approval of the previous government's motion of censure meant the end of a political cycle of corruption and a government exercised since the abuse of power. We are faced with a genuine opportunity for the new Government to address in depth the processes of democratic regeneration and the strengthening of democracy in the face of the threats of a - let us say - national front. In view of this, this Government, which has the support of the citizenry, as it needs a decent Government in the exercise of its functions, raises the need for a culture of institutional ethics, which means more transparency in the management of the Government, also by senior officials and all members of the Public Service. This new opportunity means more mechanisms for participation in decision-making; it means a better system of institutional integrity; it also calls for anti-corruption mechanisms, for example through ethical codes. We are also faced with the need for greater accountability processes and good practices on the part of the government as a whole and the public enterprise sector. Finally, strong support for territorial transparency councils, with more resources and participatory processes. In short, Minister, what are the measures in which your ministry works to improve transparency in the actions of the government and the administration as a whole? And how are you going to promote good practices among public officials? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u147	Thank you, President. Mr. Elorza, precisely because of all the issues that you highlighted, this government has made a commitment to citizens to comply with transparency obligations that the previous government had not fulfilled and even to add new transparency commitments. We have adopted the regulations that implement the law governing the exercise of the high office. This rule advances precisely in the fight against corruption, facilitates the work of the Office of Conflict of Interest and provides greater legal certainty. In this line of increasing transparency were published in the BOE of 29 September more than a thousand property declarations of high offices, including hundreds of high offices of the previous government, because we find them in the drawers, thus failing to comply with existing legislation. We have fulfilled a debt we owed to the citizens that the previous Government failed to fulfil despite having the legal obligation. The adoption of the regulations for the development of the Transparency Act, after four years, seems to us to be also one of the priorities and, of course, from the ministry we are working on that regulations for development. This will also provide more legal certainty and, above all, ensure restrictive application to limit the right to access to information for all citizens. We understand that transparency, moreover, does not have to be a one-sided thing that is simply exercised by public institutions but needs to be accompanied by the active participation of citizens. Citizens must be placed at the centre of transparency policies as well, and for this we are finalizing the Fourth Open Government Plan. Mr Elorza, we have had to be transparent for ourselves and for those who have preceded us; we have shown that not everything consists of regulating, but that, with the same rules, what differentiates the former government from the current one is a real willingness to comply with transparency. This government - I do not doubt it - is committed to transparency, participation, good governance and the evaluation of public policies, because that increases confidence in our institutions and strengthens our democratic system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u148	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: IS THE BUDGETARY PLAN SENT TO BRUSSELS REALIST? [[File number 180/000783]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u149	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, it must be painful for you to send a budget plan that endorses Podemos' electoral programme and fails to meet the objectives agreed with the European Union. A plan that violates the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and ignores the mandate of this House, which by a large majority rejected the debt and deficit path that you approved. A plan containing figures of revenue and expenditure that in the press conference after the Monday Council of Ministers were some and at night were others completely different. In view of this lack of rigour and the accumulation of falsehoods, Mrs Calviño, do you consider the budget plan sent to Brussels to be credible? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u151	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u152	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, Mr De Olano. I do not know whether we are talking about the same budget plan because the one that this Government has sent to Brussels is not only realistic and prudent but also enables us to meet the obligations of fiscal discipline, medium- and long-term sustainability and the obligations we have with regard to Spanish citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. De Olano Vela.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Calviño, I can't agree with you at all. Let me tell you that in your budget plan, the income is the milk account and the expenses are the accounts of the Grand Captain. And the worst part of it is that we are presented with accounts that pretend to deceive the Spaniards. The increase in spending will be paid by the rich, they said. But you yourself plan to raise less for the increase of the IRPF and the property tax than for the taxation of the diesel that you will have to pay 17 million Spaniards. We are talking, Mrs Calviño, about the middle class: the workers, the self-employed, the SMEs. We're going to lower social contributions to our self-employed, they announced. But the reality is that 70% of the self-employed are going to have to pay more, an increase of up to 420 euros a year. We are going to lower company tax on SMEs, Mr Sánchez assumed today, when you know that this is only going to apply to 0.5% of SMEs, i.e. almost none. On the contrary, they all face energy and labour costs up to EUR 3000 per worker per year. Mrs Calviño, when you were in Brussels the European Union estimated the levy on technology tax at 48 billion and now you say that only in Spain we are going to collect 1200, which is absolutely incredible. Who is missing the truth, the European Union or the Government of Spain? Finally, Mrs Calviño, you may have carried the accounts in Brussels but in the Government of Spain, in the Government of Sánchez, the accounts are carried by Mr Iglesias and Mr Echenique and I regret to say that you have been relegated to be the minister of the stories. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u155	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u156	Madam President, thank you very much. Let us see, as I pointed out earlier, the budget plan we have sent to Brussels, first of all, is based on prudent forecasts of economic growth that comprise all the most recent estimates made by the international bodies, but it is also realistic because it has a real starting point, which is the deficit with which 2018 will be closed in our country, which is 2.7%. The ones that were accounts of the Great Captain were those of the budget that the People's Party left us saying that this year was going to close with a 2.2 deficit that no national or international body believed it: neither the Airef nor the European Commission nor the International Monetary Fund... Man, don't tell me! [[Applauds]] What we have done is to maintain the deficit reduction path envisaged by the previous government but on a realistic basis, which is the closure of the 2018 financial year by 2.7% and from there to make an absolutely responsible policy. Because for the first time our country is going to have a primary surplus, that is to say, removing debt burdens; for the first time there is going to be a structural adjustment, that is to say, it is going to reduce the deficit by responsible actions of the government and not like the previous government that lowered taxes when we had a deficit of 5% and a debt close to 100%. [[Applauds]] A responsible budget plan because for the first time we are finally going to start to decisively reduce public debt on gross domestic product by means of this structural adjustment. A responsible plan because it is not only reducing expenditure but also having a stronger and fairer base of tax collection by adapting our tax system to the economic reality of the twenty-first century. It is very important to be clear about the reality and, above all, it is important to realize that with the numbers you do not play, with the credibility of Spain you do not play. [[Rumors]] We are not playing with the credibility of our country, which, I must say, is very high and is absolutely supported by the budget plan that we have sent to Brussels. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u157	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Noelia VERA RUIZ-HERRERA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, To the bank the money of the bank's income? [[File number 180/00773]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u158	Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how and when do you plan to claim bank bailout money from the bank?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u160	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u161	Thank you very much for your question. This Government fully shares the objective of trying to recover the public aid injected into the financial sector to the maximum extent possible. The Bankia case is paradigmatic from the point of view of the characteristics of the institution and the volume and, as you know, we have a schedule for the privatization of this entity that will allow to recover part of this public aid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u162	Mrs. Vera Ruiz-Herrera, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you know that United We can be quite satisfied with the budgetary agreement that we have reached and we hope that if the Basque and Catalan parliamentary forces want it soon we can tell the Spaniards that the minimum wage will be raised to 900 euros, that pensions will be raised to the CPI or that we will inject money against the violence of machoism, that until now it was a pact that had become wet paper. We are very pleased with that, but you know better than I do that it takes a different fiscal policy and collection measures to achieve all that. This is it. We are very pleased with that agreement because, among other things, it has been the result of the push of people on the streets but we have to go further, Minister. I tell you clearly, either you're with the people or you're with the banks, with both things you can't be at the same time. For a long time we've been solving the crisis that didn't come from people. We put almost 75 billion euros, to pay among all, to rescue the banks and that had consequences. We looked at it at that time from our homes and heard that it was not going to cost us anything and we went out massively to the street because we knew that, indeed, it was going to cost us, and so much it cost us, it was the misery and ruin of many families in this country. Looking forward so far, only 4.5 billion have been recovered. That's why I'm asking you what we're going to do specifically with the rest because this paints absolutely nothing right. It doesn't seem to me that the banks so far forgive the debts to the thousands of families that have been evicted in this country, they don't. Precisely, if we have learned something from the bank it is that debts are paid and paid with very good interests. I ask him if they're going to give us that money back, whether we're going to forgive him or not. In addition, we know that the banking lobby has done nothing but increase its benefits and privileges during all these years. We know that banking has speculated with rights as important and basic as the right to housing. If you want you can too, we've learned that too. The United States is an example, because it returned $85 billion more interest. Respect the motion of censure, respect the spirit that led them to those seats and understand that the time of privileges for both the king and the bank has to end and that privileges have to be unique and exclusively for the people who are taking this country forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u164	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u165	I totally agree with you that the important thing is that economic growth reaches all the citizens, that this exit from the crisis that we are so much talking about really results in an improvement in the quality of life of people. In this sense, the budgetary plan and the agreement that underpins it go in the right direction, in the sense of having a stronger and fairer tax system, as I pointed out a moment ago. Other measures, as you know, include an increase in the effective corporate tax rate, which was already slightly higher for the financial sector, i.e. that the financial sector will contribute more to the financing of public policies. In addition, we have planned the creation of a financial transaction tax which will also make this financial sector contribute more. Finally, we are seeing what will be the best procedure and the best time to proceed with the privatisation of Bankia and continue to recover those public aid invested. That is to say, this Government is absolutely committed to defending the interests of citizens, but it is also very important that we protect the role of banks and other financial institutions, of the financial sector as a whole, by channelling resources to families and businesses. In this regard, we are also working on the creation, for example, of a macroprudential authority to ensure financial stability in the future and to avoid a repetition of the crisis which started ten years ago and which has cost us all so much in terms of public policies, public resources, citizens' well-being, economic stability and a better future for our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u166	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, CAN WE IN COMMON CAN IN MAREA FORMULATE THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE BUDGETARY AGREEMENT FOR CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/000770]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u167	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u168	Thank you, President. Minister, how do you rate the budgetary agreement for Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u169	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe, Madam Member, that, indeed, the budgetary agreement that has been put forward and referred to in the budget plan to Brussels, all the citizens of this country are indisputably improving in terms of quality of life both by raising the interprofessional minimum wage and by updating the pressures and by all the shielding and security provided by the reinforcement to which the welfare state is subjected, as well as by policies that allow access to housing or policies that allow the bill to be lowered from the light. That is to say, it is a budgetary agreement which has its raison d'être on the part of the citizens and which will therefore benefit from these measures live where they live from Spain. But it must also be remembered that all the autonomous communities have a budget line in the budget that is going to enter this House, so that the total sum between the deliveries to account, the two tenths of the deficit target, the replenishment of the VAT duties that the autonomous communities had will produce in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia an added income for the year 2019 of around EUR 2 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u171	Mrs. Martin, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u172	I believe that we agree that this agreement allows us to leave behind the policies of the People's Party Government, a party that took advantage of the economic crisis to impose an ideological project that while justifying millionaire bailouts to the bank and filled its pockets with corruption, precarioused the lives of the citizens of the whole state and used Catalonia as its favorite scapegoat; everything was worth and everything still goes for PP and Citizens with Catalonia, also to prevent these budgets from being approved. But this agreement can turn that stage around and stop the feet to the right more racy with better public services and more basic rights, which in Catalonia, as I said, will amount to about €22 billion to invest in dependency, health, education, feminist policies and housing policies; $22 billion so that Catalonia will stop being the autonomous community with the longest waiting lists for dependency, with the highest university fees or with the most triggered rental prices. This agreement finally gives the Government a response to the main needs of Catalan citizens. However, we do not forget the context of absolute exceptionality in which this agreement takes place. Yesterday, we demanded the freedom of the Jordi, who have been unjustly imprisoned for a year. We are clear that we are not talking about numbers to forget the prisoners and the prisoners or that Catalonia must be able to decide what relationship it wants to have with the State; however, raising the minimum wage, guaranteeing the right to housing or reducing waiting lists is also meeting the needs of Catalan citizens. The president of the ANC yesterday asked Esquerra and the PDECAT to behave as a blocking minority and today I ask the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Sánchez to do the opposite, to behave as a majority of progress, to demonstrate that raising the minimum wage and working for the freedom of prisoners and the right to decide are not contradictory things but are two sides of the same democratic advance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u173	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u174	Thank you very much. I also believe, Your Honor, that there are a number of issues in the public accounts which, sometimes, because of the coldness presented by the tables, are not visible. By giving it a figure that seems to me to be of interest, in particular, the budgets, which have a human face because thousands of pensioners or thousands of dependent persons in Catalonia are going to benefit one and a half million pensioners, who are going to revalue their pensions in accordance with the real CPI; they are going to benefit in Catalonia 300 000 people who are going to see minimum and non-contributory pensions go up; or they are going to benefit 1.3 million pensioners with the reversal of the pharmaceutical co-op; they will also benefit from unemployment benefit policies more than 20 000 people between fifty-two and fifty-five years or 36 000 people who are going to have new paternity permits. If you add to that the improvement of dependency funding, which will allow you to incorporate more people served into the system, if you add the policy of access to housing, I think it is difficult for any political formation in this House that really has an interest in citizens to resist supporting these budgets because supporting them is not the Government of Spain but... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNASSI CANDELLA SERNA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT COMPENSATORY MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE TO ENSUR THE FINANCIAL Sufficiency OF THE AUTONOMOS INFRAFINANCED COMMUNITIES IN SO LONG AS THE REFORM OF THE AUTONOMIC FINANCING SYSTEM IS NOT APPROVED? [[File number 180/000768]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u175	Question also addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Ignasi Candela Serna, of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u176	Good morning. I think the government should react now and explain what Juan Cotino, convicted of corruption, was doing by presenting a book at a National Police station. Beyond that, I would like to ask the minister what measures she intends to take in addition to short-term debt refinancing to compensate for the under-financing that some communities suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u177	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u178	Thank you very much, President. I believe that we will indeed have an opportunity to talk about these public accounts, the budget plan and the budget skeleton that will be presented to this House. I tell you that in the next few days we will have the opportunity to meet to see what your political group's aspirations are with regard to these public accounts. However, I can already tell you that there are numerous measures that will allow for better financing from the Valencian Community, although it is true that you and I think that Valencia is probably the worst-financed community with this funding model and the definitive solution to your problem, both of indebtedness and lack of resources, has to come from the reform of the funding model, an initiative that you know is in progress and I hope that we can have results within a reasonable period of time. Meanwhile, as we move towards the reform of the new funding model, there are some measures that will already have an immediate effect when they are adopted by this Congress and, therefore, by the Chambers. Firstly, the two tenths of deficit that would allow the autonomous community to continue to make progress in improving public services, in particular, is 240 million that Valencia is committed to this ability to increase the deficit target. The second is the possibility of refinancing the debt in the short term and making the evolution of the debt itself more sustainable in that autonomous community. On the other hand, we will recover the commitment to finance the system of dependency and, therefore, it will allow a large number of dependents to be integrated into the Valencian Community within the system. In total, between the easing of the deficit, deliveries to account and also the settlement of the VAT overrun that took place by Mr Montoro, I can tell you that your autonomous community would receive at least EUR 900 million to improve the public services it has entrusted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u179	Mr. Candela Serna, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u180	Madam Minister, I think we will agree that today's fundamental problem is social, gender and even territorial inequality. You tell us about some measures, but it is that our fundamental problem is a problem of income, not of spending capacity, and what we are raising is the need to guarantee the right of people to have economic security and a decent life. I would also like to reflect on it, and it is that if both Socialists and Compromis share the political principle by which the most has to contribute, then we do not understand why there are two autonomous communities, primarily Murcia and the Valencian Community, which are net contributors; or, in other words, they are financing rich communities. And I don't say that, even your Valencian counterpart, Councillor Vicent Soler, says that a compensation mechanism is necessary precisely to be able to cope with everything you are saying. In short, it is a question of having the economic capacity to comply with the principle of sufficiency and the principle of equality between all Spaniards. And we do not ask for privileges, because we are neither liberal nor Christian; we ask for respect and fair treatment. You know that the Valencian Community contributes 1325 million euros a year or, which is the same, every Valencian or Valencian contributes 267 euros a year when it should not, and that is terribly unconstitutional and I do not think it is progressive to accept it or to do nothing about it. I believe that in politics it is fundamental to what. And we are asking for compensation, for example, in case we finally approve the budgetary agreement you have reached with Unite Podemos, which will mean an increase in the SMI and an increase in aid, because we have them referred to in the SMI. I'm done. We understand that they may have a lot of pressure not to establish any kind of compensation mechanism, but remember, we came here out of political courage and we must not stop being brave. I think without courage there is no funding and without funding...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u181	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u182	Thank you, President. Mr Candela, of course, we agree on the need to reform the funding system in order to give priority to those communities that have consistently been least financed. We share that, what I do not share is the confrontation between territories and that it is the territories that pay taxes, because the taxes... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u184	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the Government's forecasts regarding the problem of the proliferation of gambling houses and the political orientation on gambling juices. For your defense you have the word Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u185	Good morning, Minister. 'Choose to play, choose to win'. Can you imagine a message like this to announce a slot machine? Hardly, because we have never seen any publicity, beyond the advertisements of ONCE or quinielas, gambling or gambling. But since 2011 online bets are legal, and that has opened a door to advertising, which was closed for the rest of gambling and gambling juices. [[The lady]] Between 2011 and 2015, the increase in pathological gambling, especially among children under the age of twenty-six, has been atrocious. The entities that attend to these pathologies have been giving the voice of alarm for years and nothing more has been done than a Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications of Game Activities, which is not met in most of its terms. So, minister.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go ahead, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u187	Minister, what explanation do you give that a channel for the children's audience, such as Clan, has had three commercial betting broadcasts, as indicated by the Andalusian Audiovisual Council in its 2017 report? I understand that you consider this inexplicable and alarming in equal parts. That is why I ask you what action the Government intends to take in the face of this abusive and inappropriate advertising on mainstream television. By the way, of all the channels for the children's audience in this report, the only one that has had such commercial issues in the area of betting was precisely the public. So I reiterate with greater institutional responsibility my question: What measures does the Government intend to take? In 2015 the first draft for a regulation was insufficient and did not come out; in 2017 the second draft was equally insufficient. We do not know what we are waiting for to hear from entities and experts and make a real decree that complies with the fundamental principle of child and adolescent protection. Last week we presented an agreement with you, with the government, which contains the commitment to regulate the advertising of gambling and gambling, physical and online, such as tobacco and alcohol. In addition, we place an obligation on betting houses to incorporate information, management and consumption limitation measures and require them to invest in information, prevention, awareness and repair actions related to the undesirable effects of gambling, as well as to reorder the administrative management rate of the game to finance public spending programmes that prevent the consumption of these services. After the announcement, we received messages from families who thanked us for taking the fight against ludopathy as a priority. Parents, especially mothers, who tell us how their sons and daughters have stuck to the bets as they could not have imagined. Do you know, Minister, how much prevalence has increased in youth when we are talking about people who have this pathology in gambling and gambling in recent years? That prevalence has risen from 2.5 to 24.1. What measures does the Government intend to take? What orientation and content will this pending regulation have that does not arrive? Do you know, Minister, that when we talked precisely about players with this pathology a while ago and before this regulation in children under the age of twenty-six was 0% and less than three years later, already with the regulation, it goes up to 45%? You think there weren't underage some and some of those people with that pathology, those players? I am talking about the agreement, but in addition to the agreement, which we announced last week, initiatives are needed in the autonomous communities and in the local administrations that serve to curb the proliferation of betting houses in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods of our cities. In the same city, in Madrid, over the last four years, the increase has been 72 % and in the Community of Madrid 140 %. Bravo Murillo has eight bookmakers in one kilometer. This would be impressive if it were not because, if we look at Vallecas Bridge, we find a great Eurovegas in which in two hundred and fifty square meters we have ten betting houses. It ascends in popular neighborhoods not only in Vallecas, but also in Usera or Aluche, but that yes, what a coincidence, it descends in the center and in the neighborhood of Salamanca, which now at this time have three less betting houses. Has the Government considered the socio-economic conditions of this structural problem? And I'm not only talking about Madrid, there is also a planning of playrooms in Extremadura and Asturias. In Asturias people have it very clear: we do not want this proliferation of gambling houses in our neighborhoods. For this reason, youth groups in Ovieu and Avilés in recent days have soaked their cities because they live this as a plague that is ruining families and destroying the lives of the younger ones. What does the Government intend to do, Minister, in the face of this citizen's response? Because that youth that fills the streets with information posters knows, and so they say, that this is not an individual or family problem, but social and as such, as the substanceless addiction that it is, must be dealt with by institutions and through public policies. So we want you to tell us, Minister, what framework the Government intends to provide for the administrations of the autonomous communities and the municipalities. In fact, tell us how you intend to shield citizens and public health from People's Party governments who want to slap young people and young women in the back while at the same time spending and betting the future of these young people on the Russian roulette with Chinese magnates. That is why we ask him about his approach to government and his political proposal because we are greatly surprised that, following the motion of censure achieved by the people, he will remain the same director general of Game Planning. What's going on? Do they not have a stand of their own on this issue? Isn't there a different plan? Do we consider this to be a good thing? It seems that we can leave the education and health of our young people at the dawn of economic interests. It is already important to stop further delaying this situation, Minister, it is up to us to make decisions, clear decisions that will serve to tackle this as it is: a public health issue where the protection of our citizens, especially our young people and the most vulnerable sectors, must be given priority in view of the abuses of potentially addictive economic operators. The path is simple and, if necessary, I describe it to you, but it is already traced by the regulation of other legal activities but harmful to health, such as tobacco and alcohol. It has been made clear by experts and social entities with their allegations of both frustrated attempts at decrees. We are precisely with those experts, with those experts and with those who are working on the street, who have already expressed the ways and the ways in which the royal decree should go. We know that your bet is our bet, so tell us, Minister, what is the government's bet. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u189	Thank you very much, President, and good morning to all and to all. As your honor, Mrs Fernández Castañón, said, the Government and its political formation have agreed to draw up the general budgets of the State. It is a document that includes measures that go beyond the drawing up of the public accounts themselves and where we have curiously incorporated a section on gambling and online betting, which I believe highlights the sensitivity with which we have addressed this issue in the agreement and, therefore, the lines of work that we have agreed to share over the coming months. But before going into detail about the measures we intend to make possible through this agreement, I would also like to share the Government's reflection on the subject of the debate and, therefore, see what diagnosis we have on gambling issues. Indeed, as your lordship said, we share the diagnosis of social concern at the rise of increasing phenomena of proliferation of face betting houses - you have commented - in many neighborhoods of our towns and cities, precisely in those places where the most humble reside and where situations of precariousness and poverty are found. It is a symptom more than the unfair - I would say disapprehensive - that it has been the economic crisis with the people most in need. Also concern about the increase in online advertising with formulas that, as you commented, are increasingly aggressive, that virtually bombard with advertisements any sports show, that is a reference for younger people, and that employ well-known faces, famous faces that exercise a clear hook role to attract new users. Concern also about the perhaps diffuse border that exists between gambling houses and video games that many of our children play. I speak of concern because, although obviously some people use the game without risk and do so in a socially responsible way, for many others it does pose a serious problem - you mentioned some statistics - a problem that can lead to economic ruin and lead to an addictive pathology or disorder that must be able to identify and combat. That is why I think we should be extremely sensitive especially to the most vulnerable groups, low-income people or adolescents, in whom this negative influence can be accentuated by the shaping of the personality or by the despair of people who once in a while see that they are not able to reach the end of the month. For this reason, we have been working for a long time with the Directorate General for Game Planning to promote responsible gambling with the support of different organizations and also the business sector. The aim was to disseminate good gambling practices and to prevent and repair the negative effects of the game. However, the new modalities and the new emergences of game forms have changed the pattern of consumption and, therefore, they must also be addressed with different formulas. There have been changes in the face-to-face mode of gambling offering that promote sports betting and shows; there has been consolidation of the electronic channel and generalization of advertising, which has been extrapolated to virtually all platforms; there has been an increase in immediacy and sensitivity to gambling consumption - at any time from your home at any time of the day you can connect to one of these platforms - and all this affects the shaping of the perception about the risk of this activity throughout society. By giving you some data to help you put the context, I want to tell you that the revenues of the companies dedicated to the online game amounted last year to 560 million euros, after discounting the prizes or bonuses granted to the players. Four years ago, in 2013, this figure was barely 229 million. If we talk about online players, we currently have more than 1.4 players, more than double what we had four years ago. And if we refer to the control of illegal activity or that does not comply with the current regulations, in 2017 up to 271 web pages were closed that did not comply with the regulations. As you know, regulation, information or prevention actions are the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities, while the capacity of the Government of Spain in this respect is generic, with legal protection over certain regulations, but it is precisely in the area of the Autonomous Communities where a more personalized and precise task can be carried out for each of the activities. State competition itself corresponds to the activity linked to the online game that is directed to the whole territory. This competence is specified in Law 13/2011, which already made progress in providing for the participation of minors in these games, of legally disabled persons or of those who had a court ruling against them, and articulated initiatives for the control and verification of identity so as not to exceed that limit. To get an idea of how this preventive mechanism has worked so far, I will tell you that before a person can access an online game it is mandatory for all operators to carry out such a verification process and use accreditation mechanisms that can be safe. However, the Directorate-General for Game Planning believes that these controls must be increased and in fact makes available to online gaming operators the means necessary for them to carry out such identity checks electronically. To this end, operators are provided with an identity verification system based on the data contained in the register of the Ministry of the Interior that allows real-time verification of the data of applicants using the DNI to access this platform or the foreign identification number. Ladies and gentlemen, almost four million verification requests have been made in 2017 alone, giving an idea of the size of the volume we are talking about. However, this law clearly needs - and I share your reflection - a deepening of some issues in order to further progress in preventive matters, as well as the adaptation to new scenarios and practices that are not reflected in it. In particular, with regard to the publicity of the state-level game, I believe that your ladies and gentlemen are well aware that the issue was still pending in the year 2011 and that it has not been given complete satisfaction in this regard. We are aware that at this time there have been successive projects by the government in charge to develop a regulation on the advertising of the game which for various reasons has not been completed. In any case, as we have established in the agreement, it is a priority for this Government to address the advertising of the game, a commitment that we share with its political formation and that we will develop through the implementation of a decree that allows such advertising to be regulated as in the case of tobacco products, which have a very limited regulation so that minors do not see in them a reference, as well as so that famous faces do not put their professional prestige at the service of advertising certain activities. In addition to regulating this advertising, we will encourage a corporate social responsibility policy among gambling operators that contemplates the game as what it is, a complex phenomenon, and seeks to prevent and repair in its case any negative effects that may occur. To this end, we will also develop a regulation that obliges gambling operators to draw up an action plan incorporating the basic rules of this responsible game, with particular reference to the protection of consumers and risk groups and with the obligation to develop algorithms to identify risk behaviours in the game. In this respect, and lastly, we also want a percentage of the fee for the administrative management of the game paid by online operators to be allocated to preventive initiatives, to support associations that are dedicated to forming and reporting in the responsible game and also to campaigns to raise awareness or to repair the negative effects of the activity of the game. As you can see, we absolutely agree that there must be a commitment to draw up new legislation that is ambitious, that I believe it will be useful because it is necessary and that I trust it will answer the questions raised in your speech. However, if there were any additional questions that I could answer at the turn of the question, we would be delighted to do so. But I want to tell you that the design of the decree will be part of the follow-up to the agreements that have been raised in this budget agreement and therefore your ladies and gentlemen will have the priority of seeing what these lines are when we present the draft decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Fernández Castañón, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u191	Thank you, Minister. I see that in the diagnosis we agree and now what is left to us is to see if we will also agree on those priorities and how they materialise. There is one question - which is perhaps more terminological but which I think would also help us a lot - that has to do with talking about online gambling. The game does not cease to be a cultural socialization and online bets, a clear derivative of a capitalist system that wants to eat every day and, by the way, eat us. I therefore understand that it would make a lot more sense for us to be talking about gambling and online betting, above all in order to be able to analyse it too - and it should be done in this House, which approved it more than two years ago - within a table in the video game sector, how it is opening up the way for that youth, which we are concerned about, to start betting from virtual monetizations that end up being real. We can think about FIFA, as has been reported, but also many other games, and this the video game sector itself is the one who wants to get involved first. It was approved in this House that there should be a working table for the sector itself, which I think is very necessary, and this would certainly be a matter for discussion. Among other things, because we are also concerned that it is precisely the operators who are now responsible for this addiction to ludopathy who propose solutions to the problem they generate. We doubt very much that we can trust those operators. We ask him two questions about what he says about responsible gambling. Responsible game but, careful!, the publicity we have right now not only says: 'Choose to play, choose to win', but also shows us scenarios in which you are above the success you get by the game that you get for example with work. So, we see a player through online bets in her workspace or in a library, or we can see how a man is a triumphant, in a pool, with a luxury car and surrounded by women - because, besides, this advertising is also sexist - selling us a successful image linked to the game. Therefore, talking about responsible gambling when the advertising itself that is being allowed to this day goes in this line, we find it a little strange. In fact - says the Andalusian Audiovisual Council in the 2017 report, which you will know - there are very few platforms and operators who even mention in a visible way that this game has to be responsible. With regard to good gambling practices, it is hard for me to imagine talking about the good practices of smoking, for example, or the good practices of alcoholism. And in any case they have not worked; they have not worked because we cannot leave public health to the individual criteria of each person. Public health responsibility is a social, institutional responsibility and, therefore, sufficient tools must be provided so that those who are also in more unprotected situations can find a way not to fall into addictions, in this case addictions without substance. She also tells us about the verifications that operators make on their online platforms, but those verifications, Minister, only when they are going to charge, not when they are going to play. If you can do these checks, why aren't they done from the start, when you're going to play, and only when you're going to collect? This looks like a payment gateway to any website on which you want to make any kind of purchase. In other words, they do not seem to us to be verifications that look for interest, for the health of the citizenry, but for the interest that this economic transaction takes place. In addition, do you tell me, Minister, that youth, that our young people who have this pathology can no longer - as they do - take a photo to the DNI of their guardians, their father or mother and transfer that photograph from the DNI so that they can also verify the payment for that game? The autonomous communities, as mentioned, are demanding a framework and the framework will have to be given by the Government. So - and I am going to the questions, Minister - what does your Government mean by priority? Because we're seven years late. What does priority mean? When is it? Is it this month? Is it this session? Is it this year? Is it in the next one? Is it in this legislature? Can you give us a date? Another question for you to answer, yes or no, with monosyllables - you don't have to spend a lot of time - is your government going to ban advertising of gambling houses? Are you going to ban advertising in generalist spaces, in mass spaces? And if so, when are you going to do it, Minister? With these two questions, to know when and what the Government understands as a priority in the face of this problem, I will finish and let you answer us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Minister of Finance, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u193	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Your Honor, it seems significant to me that this government has high expectations, but we are responsible for what has been happening for four months. That is why I would like to say that the Socialist Government is not to blame that it has spent more than seven years without developing that regulation. So priority is this line that we have incorporated both political formations into the budget agreement; that is, we have to develop it over the coming months. In fact, the ministry is working on a draft that will be reinforced by the measures that were commented on in the agreement and in the discussions that we have had on the occasion of the agreement and, therefore, we will adapt it - because it was already in processing period - basically on the issues that have to do with the limitation of advertising to make it homologable or similar to tobacco products. This is not, therefore, an absolute ban on such advertising, but a strict limitation, such as tobacco, so that neither in children's hours obviously nor in sporting events nor in any environment that serves as a reference for, let us say, the personality configuration of those who seek success appears an advertisement that incites consumption habits that, if not used properly, can be harmful. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both the Socialist Government and its own political formation must be aware that the dry ban is no effective measure in relation to behaviour that may be unhealthy or that we should avoid. In other words, the game or consumption of tobacco or alcohol are legal activities; they are activities that have strict regulation in terms of how and when it can be consumed but are legal activities and, therefore, advertising has to accompany this limitation of the framework where they have to be expressed. It would not make much sense to make an approach - we did not do so in the agreement - of absolute prohibition of advertising, but to limit it to those environments where it does not harm, if I may say so, for consumption. I believe we agree and will therefore incorporate it into the decree. As I say, we will present it shortly; in fact, the processing was already under way. We shall see whether the new contributions, the result of the dialogue also with its political formation, force it back to the Council of State, because it had already been transferred to the Council of State, but I believe that what is important is what we are seeing. The balance will be precisely in being able, on the one hand, to regulate that advertising is well recorded, that access, as you said, has all the guarantees to prevent unauthorized persons from entering, but, on the other hand, that those who make responsible use of the game can develop it. I believe that in this sense the important thing is to bring to the minds of the citizens the risk of abusive practice of this type of activity or irresponsible practice. I believe that progressive formations always tend to make it the citizen himself who, through his education, training, self-imposed his limit and that the State helps to prevent such regulation from gnawing with the most vulnerable people, with those who have a situation that makes it easier to interfere in the configuration of their behavior. I find the reference to video games particularly useful. I can assure you that the regulation of this activity is extraordinarily complex, since, first of all, it is something that is not subject a priori to economic interests, but on the other hand it does seem to condition, especially when used early, a way of interrelationship with the world that makes it possible to have a greater tendency to gambling practices and therefore to develop addictive behaviors in the future. It would therefore be necessary to promote actions that would enable, especially parents, to have control over the time spent on such activities and, on the other hand, to ensure that the games that our children usually use are games that do not incite violence, sexist behaviour, those issues that can link them or cause them to develop such behaviours. In any case, they are self-regulatory activities and what we need is to put in place tools so that those who want to use them can use them, but I believe that everything is in the direction of trying to ensure that the minor citizen does not have access to certain activities and that the adult citizen has tools to ensure responsible consumption and therefore that there is no addiction, because many people are going through it frankly wrong, with a ludopathy that has ended with their lives and even with that of their family, and it is urgent and compulsory for the governments to act in order to be able to develop these measures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the use of instrumental partnerships to pay less taxes by members of the socialist executive and the President's commitment to expel from his party to whom he does so. [[File number 172/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u195	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the use of instrumental societies to pay less taxes by members of the Socialist Executive and the president's commitment to expel anyone from his party. To defend this initiative, Mr Bravo Baena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u196	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I open quotes: 'It seems to me that it is immoral to have a number three of your organization that has created an interposed society to tax half of what it was. If I have in my party's general executive, in my direction, a political leader who creates an interposed society to pay half the taxes he has to pay, that person the next day would be out of my executive. It is the commitment that I make to my voters and also to the Spanish, and I would also like in this case to see the Secretary General of Podemos, that is, Pablo Iglesias, do the same.' I close quotes. End of date. These are the words of Dr. Sánchez in February 2015. Of course, when I didn't think I was going to rule and, much less, that the formula would have to be applied with his own team, with his own ministers. Do you know what the problem is? That Dr. Sánchez presented himself as the adalid of moral superiority; as adalid of each and every excellence, promising a cleansing that would apply or submit to general politics, and the reality and almost five months of government are proving something very different, they are proving that Mr. Sánchez has become the president of the team that does not tell the truth, of the team that lacks the truth, of the team that lies. And so, he's the president. Mr. Duque's support for your case is few, but let's mention two. Mr Ábalos, when asked about his situation, did not defend his innocence, he merely expressed - I am sure quotes -: 'Minister Duque is not part of the executive of the PSOE and therefore does not affect him these words of the Secretary General and President of the Government'. [[Laughter]] Point one, don't you consider it your own, like the movie One of ours? We don't know if it's better, if it's good or bad for Mr. Duke not to consider it his own. And, secondly, he has not defended his innocence. [[The Lord]] We believe that public servants must be required to have a higher level of exemplaryness than a member of an executive or any grassroots activist. [[Applauds]] And if we go to your statements, Mrs Montero, you have not given great support either. He explained, literally: 'There are companies that are not thought to be ex-professor to circumvent taxes, but that are sometimes used for that purpose'. One hundred percent agree. 'It would constitute fraud in the event that he used that figure for the simple act of covering'. Totally agree. And, best of all: 'Depending on how it was used is legal or not'. We totally agree. But, by focusing on the specific case of the inquiry, the first thing we want to highlight is the absence of Mr Duque. Again it hides in order not to give explanations and this is beginning to be a sign of identity of Mr Sánchez's government. [[Applauds]] The Duke was asked to appear urgently; he did not want to. And he didn't want to appear in this interrogation either, and he sent Mrs. Montero. Mrs Montero, we appreciate your attendance and more on a day like today, but we sincerely understand that you will hardly be able to answer the doubts we have and we want to clarify. A lot of transparency doesn't seem to be there. Mrs. Montero, I'm not going to fool you, when I knew you were the person who was going to appear I totally changed my intervention, but then I thought that would distort reality. Here we come to ask for explanations about interposed societies and fraud and about those people who do, with which I kept the first intervention I had thought. We are going to do the analysis from two points of view: tax fraud and Mr Duque's demonstrations, the few we know. Has there been a tax fraud, a tax breach on the part of Mr. Duque? Everything points to yes, that this society allowed it to tax less and more that it would have been saved if there had been no changes in the regulations in 2014 and 2015. We do not have all the data, because Mr Duque does not want to contribute anything, but from what we know we can conclude: imputation of expenses that could not have been deduced otherwise; lack of self-renters; reduced taxes in the years he declared some profits; revenues 2011-2014. Mrs. Montero, you only taxed 3.8. I am saying this because, as with corporation tax, we might also have to take a look here. Mr Duque has been able to benefit from a tax reduction in the IRPF, in corporation tax, in property tax and, if it had given rise, in inheritance tax, using a certain tax engineering. Let's go to the second part, let's go to Mr. Duque's statements. From an objective point of view, as if it were a check of your ministry, Mrs Montero: 'The creation of society recommended it to me by the notary or someone'. Let me recommend to your partner not to blame other collectives if you are not absolutely sure that it was the notary. It is preferable to assume responsibilities and mistakes. He then referred to the recommendation of an adviser; a basic profile of a fraudster. [[Laughter]] I won't need to remind you of examples of taxpayers accused of fraud who in their allegations say they don't know everything and transfer responsibility to advisors. For Mr. Duque conveys the same role: it is the fault of the advisors, the notary, of everyone but him. Negative point. In our consideration, he doesn't tell the truth or lie. Second, the company's social object - normally Article 4 of the statutes -. It says, literal: Promotion, construction and sale of real estate more management and advice in real estate operations. Does Mr. Duque really do this when he builds society with the idea of making real estate promotion? Has Mr. Duke made any real estate promotion in his life? Construction; in addition to the renovations of his house, like any Spanish, has Mr. Duque made any more construction? And really the end was selling real estate? And if we talk about real estate management and advice, does Mr. Duke really know about this? If you say you don't know all the entanglements of society! Who were you planning on advising? Or did it constitute society because Mr. Duke could predict, could he guess that six years later he was going to rent it? [[Applauds]] Again I think it lacks the truth and therefore lies. He also said that the Government was promoting him. Minister, your own comrades. [[Showing a press clipping]] Members of the Government of Zapatero reply to Duque: Heritage societies were not promoted. You guys yourself, huh? What do you mean? Did Mr. Duke see any publicity from Mr. Zapatero's government? Was the Tax Agency informed of what you wanted to do and whether this formula was the right one? Frankly, we believe that the excuse has sought it a posteriori to set up a credible account. We therefore conclude that Mr Duque is not honest in his speech and therefore lies. Mrs. Montero, your partner loses three to zero, at the moment, they don't convince much of your explanations. He refers to his stay outside and the difficulty of notification and that he wanted to have a contact person. Man, we understand that in his professional performance relations with new technologies should not be a problem for him and he should know - and you know - that there was electronic notification or telematic notification or, if so, he could have hired an advisor. Really, does that sound like a compelling motive to you? I think you should look for more solid arguments; following your line, I think it does not tell the truth of the motives, and there is no greater lie than the half truths. In similar terms he claims that it was to facilitate giving powers to those who had to rent the property because it traveled a lot and it was impossible to locate the firm. Well, it was Mr. Duke's foresight, because it was six years later when he was rented. He says he was advised enough not to bill other income through society. And why did he not extend that advice to all his obligations to society? Or did he, and now he's telling us half of what he knew? Are you lying, and did you know the benefits of having this society? Can we conclude that you're lying? Mr. Duque indicates that he did not find it unusual to buy a house in Spain through a society, for I remind Mr. Duque that the first house he bought did so, like the vast majority of those who are here, in his name, which is normal. But he adds: In European countries it is the only way people have property. For Monsieur Duque: In 2016 and 2017 in Spain 114 000 homes have been bought by foreigners, on his behalf. Something's not right. [[Applauds]] I think you're lying, Mr. Duke. He also referred to inheritance in the event that he suffered some harm. Is Mr. Duque implying that if the goods were in the name of a natural person it would be worse than having them in the name of a society, which would have less guarantees? Or is he perhaps referring to the fact that being high-value properties would be very cheap for him to do so through a society? Mr. Duke, don't lie. Recognize your error and look for solutions. He also referred to the enormous cost of reversing assets to their assets. He's not telling the truth either. And you know there was an exit window for the zero-cost transformation. But maybe where more in evidence leaves his behavior and everything from a purely tax analysis in this verification simulation we're doing is when they ask him to provide evidence. Something logical, isn't it? He is asked to provide evidence of what Mr. Duque calls self-renting or what we might also call 'association-related operations'. Here Mr. Duque's answer is quick, without much thought, you can see that it comes out of his inside. To the journalist's question - I open quotes - 'Do you want me to give you proof that I have rented myself? I am not going to contribute, it seems to me a little too much, are internal roles of society.' [[Laughter]] That is the great difference with those who defend their innocence without concealment, who bring what they ask and more, and those who have something to hide, who try to hide everything and provide the least information. Minister, do you know what the attitude of the ministry was after this uncomfortable question from a journalist? Cut the press conference: No further questions. Madam Minister, the coin. [[Shows a coin and hides it in one hand]] A hand that I teach you and a hand that I don't teach you, where's the coin? Not the one I teach you, you're the one I don't teach you, minister. [[Applauds]] Mr Duque, with the utmost respect for you, you have the great honour of being a minister for many things, including responding to all the Spaniards and dispelling any kind of doubt that may arise over your person, especially if you have done nothing wrong. [[The lady]] Facilitate your corporate taxes, your declarations, your self-renters; you will be able to save this enormous doubt that surrounds you. For you, Mr Duque, for your Government, for Spain, please provide the information and dispel the doubts. Mr Duque will be able to argue, and quite rightly so, that if Mr Sánchez has had his thesis hidden for so long, why should he be more transparent than the adalid of transparency? There we give him the reason, but I think we share that one must mark one's own principles. I'm not going to give you my opinion on Mr. Sanchez's behavior, I think it's noticeable. His resignation is not requested by the People's Party or Citizens, his resignation is requested by Mr Sánchez when he put the list where he put it with his statements of February 2015. [[Applauds]] That's when you ask for Mr. Duke's resignation! That's when you ask for it! They don't confuse people, they don't confuse them. Creating a society is not illegal and wanting to pay less taxes either, but it is fraud to use only that part of the system that interests me, forgetting, in quotes, to declare income. Now, it seems that the inclusion of expenses and other benefits was not forgotten. Mr. Duque, you were wrong when you bought the property, you were wrong when you created the company and you were wrong when you agreed to be Mr. Sanchez' minister. That's when you were really wrong. [[Applauds]] Why? Because the problem, Mrs Montero, is that this government is itself a lie, a lie from the very beginning. A lie when Mr Sánchez indicated that the motion of censure was just a step towards calling elections and now clings to his chair; a lie when he stated that he would not deal with populists, neither before nor after, and today the Minister of Budgets is Mr. Iglesias; a lie when he said he would not accept in his Executive a member of his team who would use an interposed society to pay less taxes; a lie when they said that investment in R & D+i would be in 2 or even 3% of gross domestic product and would be spent 6 billion and a small portion would go to R & D. Finally, Mrs Montero, we have been concerned about hearing your speeches again and not pretending to be us, much less those who tell you what you have to answer, I can anticipate part of your answer and, as it turns out, I have thanked you at first that you are here on a day like today. He will tell us: lessons of the People's Party, none; we come to reverse the social cuts. [[laughs]] He'll start saying we're the worst in the world. [[Laughter]] We've assumed it, we're used to it, it's yours. It will take out what is known as the fan of the 'and you more', which does little, but today it is you who are in government and you who have to explain it is you, not the People's Party. He'll say we've gone up to 40 taxes. Maybe he's right, but let's say the second part: that we've made the biggest tax rebate in Spain's history. That's what they forget to say to you. [[Applauds]] That is why I would ask you, by accepting your reply in advance, to focus on the reason for the inquiry, which is nothing other than knowing your Government's assessment of the use of instrumental societies to pay less taxes on the part of members of the Socialist Executive and the President's commitment to expel those who do so, and in particular to focus on the last known case, that of Mr Duque. Thank you very much, President. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u197	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance. [[A honourable Member: What a piece of paper!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u198	None paper, Your Honor; paper that you are doing with this debate in this House. [[applause]] What I am ashamed of is the intervention of - I think it's called that - Mr Bravo. Don't you? [[Rumors]] I think so. I just don't know him. [[Protests]] I don't know him. Your name is Mr. Bravo?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u199	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u200	Anyway, I wanted to address him in terms of his last name, but it's also annoying. [[Applauds]] It also bothers me to try to find out the name of the Member to address him in terms of his last name. Some key I must have touched that I don't know very well what you mean by that last name. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, I am ashamed of your intervention in this rostrum. It is no paper, it is a feeling that the debates, the speeches, the disqualifications, the mud they bring to this House do not dignify political life and do not deserve it from the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That's what I'm outraged about. The Spaniards don't deserve it. And people who come from a successful professional life and take a step to engage in political activity do not deserve you to use lies and fallacies, to come up to this rostrum and put those people in question, because you have demonstrated a curriculum based on the effort, brand and defense of this country throughout the world. [[Applauds]] I am very proud that Mr Duque is a member of my Government and I am very proud as a citizen that a person who did not have to commit himself beyond what he had already done in his professional life with this country, takes a leap and step forward to take charge of nothing more than the policy of impulse to university, research, science and innovation. I am proud that Mr Pedro Duque is part of this executive, has taken a step in the hands of the Socialist Group and is developing his activity for the improvement of research and science in this country. [[Applauds]] But to me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I really do not miss your intervention. You have made a decision as an opposition, which is, no more or less, to roll in the mud and be constantly trying to make politics a muddy one. I believe that you have believed - it must be that you do not see the polls - that the more noise, the more detachment from citizens to political life and the more rejection they provoke in the debates, the better it will go to the interests of the People's Party, because if not, Your Honor, I do not explain this type of intervention. Since parliamentary honesty, I do not explain the kind of intervention you have made, Mr Bravo, because here, in this rostrum, you have devoted yourself to defaming people who cannot be used - and for whom I cannot use - tax data and to whom you are therefore calling into question without my ability to deal with all these issues. I, as Minister of Finance, am not going to talk about a person from the executive or a member of the People's Party. No, the Minister of Finance has an obligation of confidentiality with respect to all tax data... [[Protests.-Mr. Elorza González utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u201	Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. Mr. Elorza! [[Mr. Elorza González: What?]] Mr. Elorza, I call you to order. [[Mr Sahuquillo García: Yes, of course!-A Member of Parliament: Always on the same side!-Mr Zaragoza Alonso speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Zaragoza, I call you to order. [[The Lord]] Mr Zaragoza, I call the order for the second time and I announce that if I have to call the order for the third time I will take action. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u202	Thank you, President. I ask you, please, to spare me the time you've used. I also ask my group not to fall into the provocations of the People's Parliamentary Group; let us not fall. [[Applauds]] They want that, they want confrontation, they want disqualification. They don't care about politics, they want to talk about politicians, not about politics that affects people's lives, that affects people and that allows them to improve their quality of life, because they lose, they always lose. [[Applauds]] So they're not interested in talking about this. Your Honor, I was planning to transfer the requirements for the creation of a heritage society to you. I, by the intervention you made this morning, have understood that you believe that they should be banned, because you have spoken of heritage societies as if it were an illegal activity and therefore I understand that, according to your opinion, the People's Party proposes the direct elimination of heritage societies. [[Mr. Bravo Baena makes negative signs]] You tell me with your finger you don't, but you have characterized here that what is done with heritage societies is a way to avoid taxes. It is as you have characterized it and I refer you to the Journal of Sessions because I am not going to entertain myself in repeating your words. A Canadian politician said that when a confrontation platform arrived, it was discussed within the team whether it was better to live up to that game or political debate, or discreetly not to get caught up in that dispute with the opponents. I say to you, Your Honor, that I would not like my speech here to defile the Socialist Group, as the Group of the European People's Party claims by bringing a contentless debate and missing the truth about the conduct of my cabinet partner and trying to criminalize all those who legally use heritage societies. I don't think that's the way to throw any kind of truth into this issue. Therefore, Your Honor, I will try to move with simple words that the patrimonial societies are covered by the law, are perfectly collected by the norm and are defined as those societies in which more than half of their assets are made up of securities or which are not linked to an economic activity. Therefore, what the definition of this society means is that its activity consists precisely in what Mr Bravo has criminalized: the management of goods without carrying out any business activity. There are many types of equity companies and it is important to know that these companies tax the same as in corporation tax, but they have fewer advantages because they do not have exemptions or deductions that apply in corporations, but not in such a equity company. You have questioned the very raison d'être of heritage societies. I would like to tell you that they have a perfect legal connection, that I believe that the previous Executive has never discussed the desirability of citizens who so wish being able to use heritage societies for the purposes provided for by the law. But, Your Honor, as you have made different references to the statements of my colleague Pedro Duque, I would like to say that neither Mr. Pedro Duque nor anyone in this Executive is hiding income from work or income from professional activities in any society, neither property nor non-heritage. You know that the concept of instrumental society does not exist, it simply refers to when an individual uses such legal instruments to hide income from work, income from economic activities to deal with less taxes. Under no circumstances has Mr Duque used any heritage society to hide that income from economic activity. Your Honor, I could keep telling you things about this issue. It seems to me that you are not interested in this subject, you simply bring it here to continue trying to discredit the members of the Executive, we have seen it all morning. And while parliamentarians are dedicated to that, the counter-ambassador Mr Casado is dedicated to going to Brussels to stain the image of the Government of Spain, to question this country in a sort of emissary of bad news, falsehoods and insidiacies that try to discredit the image of Spain in the international context because they care about the citizens of this country. [[applause]] I, if you want, Mr Bravo, in the second speech I tell you the 'and you more' - which you said I was going to use in my first speech - of members of the People's Party on whom it was possible not only to suspect that they had actually hidden those capitals, but of people who were in prison, and also of the dubious truth that in relation to these events Mr Rajoy's conduct, in the court's opinion. Therefore, you were well advanced, you were well advanced - and I will do so every time I come up to this rostrum -: the People's Party is not going to give lessons to this country either in terms of corruption or in terms of any kind of irregularity or getting out of the way, and even if you would laugh... [[laughs]] Because it must be that this debate, which we all find unpleasant, is funny to you because it is the only instrument you have decided to have to make politics; what they call politics, which is what results in the detachment of citizens. [[rumors]] If you wish, Mr Bravo, I shall tell you in my second speech the cases in which the People's Party has been portrayed in these kinds of acts. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u203	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Silence! Mr Bravo Baena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u204	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you were very predictable. There's nothing wrong with Mr. Bravo, as if he doesn't know my name, it's not important, I'm not important; the important are the rest. Look, you were talking about mud and mud. Hearing you talk about it costs, eh?, it costs you, who are used to it, to talk to others. I had one thing clear in this intervention. I'm very impulsive, I say things with a lot of passion, but what I was sure was that I wasn't going to miss anyone. Because if Mr. Duke doesn't want to show up and it's uncomfortable, and for you it's uncomfortable to show up today, it's not nice for me. It's nothing nice. We have never doubted Mr. Duke's résumé. We've questioned their fiscal behavior. Hey, the same thing you've always done to us, always! He said it was predictable. He said we didn't give any lessons, that then he'll tell me about the 'and you plus' and the fan. Look, I was bringing in today's ABC cover, which I could pull out if I wanted to, but I don't think so. [[Rumors]] No, we're not doing the same thing. Let's focus on what matters, what we've come to do here. You've told me about heritage societies. I might have to do the first speech again, but I'm sure the president won't give me that much time. I have said and reaffirmed what you have said, that societies are not illegal. I understand that you, who are a doctor, don't know about taxes, I understand. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Hey, hey!]] I play with advantage, but you said that heritage societies today have no benefits. Do you know who did it? The People's Party, but those benefits did exist when this gentleman constituted the heritage society. [[Rumors]] Ah, you have to study it, not let the papers pass us. You have to study it, minister. Not only do we have income from work or economic activity, there are more income, and this gentleman has hidden another type of income. Everything is not work and economic activity. There are people who have quite higher returns on capital than many of us will earn during our lifetime as labor returns. So don't confuse. I understand that it costs you, I understand it, and I do not want to be abusive in my intervention, so I will not go into the technical issue of taxes. [[the Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes gestures to the speaker]] [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Let me ask you a few questions, which I hope Mr. Duke will answer. Could Mr. Duque tell us where the report is being prepared by his advisers, which he announced on October 4th and which today, on the 18th, has not yet appeared? Could Mr Duque tell us whether his advisers have rectified anything in his statements or have proceeded to regularize possible errors voluntarily? Can you confirm whether the corresponding VAT was paid in the work carried out in your cottage in Javea? Can you tell us if those expenses have been deducted? Can you tell us whether, on the assumption that VAT had been paid, VAT had been deducted? Finally, Mrs Montero, you belong to a government of Mr Sánchez that falls to pieces. Two are gone, two are at the door, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Science. We have been told that a fifth has a penalty for using privileged information, and there is another lady who forgets to declare properties, which are not small garages, but are high-value properties. That's what we really have. I have not questioned or made any assessment of Mr. Duque. I have reproduced your statements, and I have put into evidence and contrasted. It has never occurred to me to make assessments. But there's one thing you've talked about that I think we need to take advantage of. I'm going to ask you one thing: don't go up taxes. You talk a lot about the progressive nature - Article 31 of the Constitution, repeat - but you also forget that Article 31 says that taxes will not be confiscational, and you forget the second paragraph, which says that public expenditure will make an equitable allocation of public resources and that its programming and execution will meet the criteria of efficiency and economy. Do you know what that means? To spend well, to spend just, not to spend more, not to waste. It does not seem very consistent to demand from the rest of the Spaniards an effort to cope with the rise in taxes while different members of the socialist executive use instrumental societies to pay less taxes. Remember, Mrs. Montero, it was Mr. Sánchez who marked the bar. I repeat, it was in 2015; not the People's Party. We're not the ones who asked him to resign. You will not have heard from my mouth that we ask for resignation; it was your president. Seek the agreement of the whole House in the fight against fraud, against those who use interposed societies - which you have criticized so much - for lower taxation, against those who hide goods, but please do not raise taxes. We have shown them twice that the economy is growing, employment is growing and, therefore, more is being raised: from 1996 to 2004 and from 2012 to 2018. Think about the best for your country, this interpellation could also serve it. You know that your foresight, Minister, does not answer the truth, and I will explain myself. He knows that it is almost impossible to raise 800 million by charging those who earn more than 130 000 euros. There are very few, barely 0.5%. You know that's not true. As for the financial transaction tax, the budget has not been collected in any of the countries in which it has been applied, and you put 1 billion. They're not going to collect. In addition, it produces offshoring of operations, loss of activity, loss of employment. Example: Sweden, France and Italy. Mr Bravo does not say so, as you say; empirical reality says so. Fight tax fraud, they didn't do it before, but I tell you now: let's come to an agreement and don't make the usual, middle class, workers pay. And let us not demonize those who earn more with their effort. They're not bad people to earn 130,000 euros, they're not bad people. Let us give more means to the Tax Agency, let us make regulatory progress to cover up those tax holes that we are seeing, but let us not crush the Spaniards any more. Let's be consistent. We can observe that in the draft budgets we find no measure to combat these abusive practices of interposed societies. The collection is going to fall again, Minister; Social Security is going to fall because there is going to be unemployment. Not only will they not contribute, but they will need resources from the budgets. There are three macroeconomic signs that show this: first, the increase in the interest of the public bond; second, the increase in the risk premium; and third, the Cepsa stock market exit, which did not want to leave. The CEO is telling you to please review your project. Foreign investment is paralyzed and we don't notice it now, as we didn't notice when it was positive; we will notice it in February and March, and you know it, and there are going to be people going out on the street. Minister, in conclusion, you are bringing with your budgets the pillar of the beginning of the recession. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u205	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u206	Thank you, President. Mr Bravo, when you come up to this rostrum and even want to question the professional training of those we are working for the general interest, you are a desperate one. We must be desperate to try to question these aspects! I do not know your professional training, but what I have been able to see this morning, to my dismay, is that in terms of decency and parliamentary courtesy you have no idea. No idea! [[Applauds]] And if you also think I'm going to allude to you, little knows me, at all. If you consider yourself more capable, with greater intellectual knowledge, you yourself, because we come to this Congress and this Parliament to do politics, to take care of people's lives, to try to respond to the problems that distress you in the day-to-day, to worry about health, education, dependence, the bill of light and access to rent. We take care of the reality of the citizens. You do a lot with digesting your frustration and digesting the inability you have to accept the reality of the facts. [[Applause.- Mr Bravo Baena shows some documents]] You move - I have to say so, Mr Bravo - frustration in this rostrum because you used a sort of thing that I said, but that I don't say, but that now I do agree with the heritage societies, but that at all I don't... You yourself. Obviously, I am not going to direct you to where you have to go. What I do want to say is one thing, Mr Bravo, and that is that you have not heard of anything as political formation. You, despite the events of recent months and despite the success of the motion of censure, have not done an internal regeneration process. You have not learned that citizens are telling politicians that they have to deal with politics and that it is already good to be constantly throwing lies, falsehoods, suspicions and issues that have nothing to do with the people of the street and that have to do with their desire to overthrow this government, to stain their image or to try to make the contempt of people conceal political action. What do you intend to do permanently, and I warn you already? They are going to attack the members of the Government personally because they want to hide political action, because they do not want it to be shown that it is possible in this country and that it is compatible with the rights of the citizens and return to them the rights that have been taken away from them by the crisis, with a responsible economic policy that allows them to comply with the Brussels commitments. They were riding around in that economic policy saying that it was the only policy possible and now that the Socialist Government, according to another political formation, is demonstrating that there is another way of doing politics, you are nervous because you know that at the moment when citizens perceive it on the skin they will be billed at the polls and in the elections, and that is why you use all the springs to keep that budget from moving forward. [[Applauds]] That's the way you have to do politics, Your Honor. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, when the draft budgets come to this House we will talk about taxation. I already know that the groups specially protected for the People's Party do not coincide with the Socialist Party's groups. I know that, Your Honor. I know that for you the groups of people who earn less than 130 000 euros simply do not exist. People who have an interprofessional minimum wage of less than 900 euros for you do not exist. Pensioners who cannot arrive at the end of the month for you do not exist. Young people who have difficulty accessing housing for you do not exist. For you there are no ordinary citizens on foot. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of citizens you come together with, because the people on the street with whom this group comes together are people who live with these problems every day. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I am proud that my President has made an ethical reference that is far above your expectations. There is exemplary public behaviour, as this Government has shown. I don't know if you could say the same about Mr. Aznar, Mr. Arias Cañete, Mr. José Manuel Soria, Mr. Carlos Fabra, Mr. Rodrigo Rato, Mr. Luis Bárcenas... [[Rumors]] As you will see, I am not going to comment on what issues you have been accused of, because I believe that citizens know it perfectly well. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good that you are already trying to teach this government or this political party ethics and morale. Understand yourselves, regenerate democratically and apply the story. Mr Bravo, I am going to tell you one thing, which is the only reality that we have to take into account: this country needs a responsible opposition, an opposition that also cares about people's problems, an opposition that takes note after leaving the government that with lies, concealments and lack of transparency this country cannot be governed because it is not worthy of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: The ERE!-Rumors.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-17-CD181017.u207	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was 12 noon.
