ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona María Dolores de Cospedal García, I ask Fr Francisco Vañó Ferre if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u2	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u3	Thank you very much. Don Francisco Vañó Ferre has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u4	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the establishment of a surcharge of solidarity to credit institutions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, does it make sense for banks to pay taxes? Let me read to you article 31 of the Spanish Constitution: 'Everyone will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure according to their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressive...'. The above-mentioned article of the Constitution says 'all', also the banks. For us, the existence of this special surcharge was a very important issue in the negotiations we had with the Government to bring forward a budget agreement. We had to give in and we had to accept legislation on this ex post charge, and I think that today we have a good opportunity, a good opportunity to get closer to Europe, we are not asking for anything else. Our country is 8 points away, 8 points below the European average in government revenue, and this has to do, among other things, with banks not paying taxes. I repeat, banks don't pay taxes. In the last ten years, despite having won EUR 84 billion, the banks have not only not paid taxes, but we have had to pay 164 million for corporate tax refunds. We are not asking for anything from the other world, we are not asking for anything that does not collect the Spanish Constitution itself if we ask that not only the working people, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the banks pay them in this country. Look, this type of tax is not something that we have invented or that comes from the programme of the Bolshevik party, this already exists in countries as little suspected of radicalism as Norway, Germany, Austria, Portugal, the United Kingdom or Belgium. One wonders, then, whether this tax is possible. Some will say it's not possible. Can the banks return the ransom money, the money we spend all Spanish citizens to rescue the bank, EUR 60 billion? I believe that yes, they can return it perfectly; they can return it in a very simple way, in a situation in which banks have benefits, returning the rescue does not imply much less putting at risk the necessary stability of the financial system. But they also have to return it for a matter of justice. Do banks forgive debts? When you have a mortgage, do you forgive your debt? Have the banks in this country forgiven the debt to the families that were later evicted even though we have all seen, and the Supreme Court has said, that people had to pay taxes that they did not have to pay? Of course the banks can return the money!, the EUR 60 billion. Do you know what that means? It is more than the educational budget of the State and of all the autonomous communities together. The question is, if banks don't want to return this money, can the state get it back? Of course, it is enough to take as an example what they have done in other countries. For example, the United Kingdom has already recovered 80% of the bank bailout, with £110 billion recovered by the public coffers from a bailout of £137 billion. The Netherlands rescued the ING bank with 10 billion euros between 2008 and 2009; today it has recovered that 10 billion euros and has also recovered 3500 more in interest. The United States - a country with a clearly Bolshevik government - in 2015 published a document in which they acknowledged that they had recovered all the public aid granted to the bank, both capital injections and in the program for the purchase of toxic assets, and they also acknowledged that they had collected interest; 30 billion returned by the bank from what they had lent to it, with interest. So, the question is why not?, why can't we do what was done in the UK, what was done in the Netherlands or what has been done in the United States? I think there is a lack of political will, but let me go ahead with some of the arguments I think will be put forward from this rostrum. There is one very classic; they will say: No, it is that charging a tax to the bank makes no sense because in the end the bank will impact it on its customers. How? That the bank will pass on to its customers a tax decided at the Congress of Deputies? Well, don't worry about the citizens, that's why we're here. If the bank imposes unfair clauses to pass the tax on customers, for that is the Congress of Deputies, to establish the law, and whoever skips the law pays; to any citizen who is listening to us, if you skip a traffic light, they put a fine on him and take points off him, why not the banks? Well, exactly the same. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I understand that you were proposing to set up a banking supervisory body to pay the mortgage tax in the proposal you brought the other day. Here's a key to making this work and it's that that regulator has to have sanctioning capacity because, if not, it's like it's an umpire who can't take out a yellow card or a red card, it's absolutely not worth it at all. If regulatory bodies cannot sanction, those regulatory bodies are useless. But I suspect that what is behind these arguments is something deeper, it is the argument that says: anything we do against the powerful in the end will go against the citizenry. It's a classic argument. There can be no compensation for dismissal because, if there is compensation for dismissal, fewer people will be hired in the end; we cannot force electricians to end their oligopoly and to lower the light rate because then no one will have light and no one will have heating and no one will have running water. How are we gonna get banks to comply with the law? If we make the banks comply with the law, then they will leave the country and arrive the seven plagues and everything will be terrible. Those who make this approach have in fact not fully understood how democracy works. Democracy is basically a historical movement of redistribution of power. The People's Party had a foundation of thought that was called FAES and that was previously called Antonio Cánovas del Castillo, who was a very intelligent gentleman, the intellectual architect of the Restoration, but who was basically a gentleman against democracy, was in favour of the census vote, always opposed that in this country the poor could vote and, let's not say anymore, that women could vote. The reality of democracy is that democracy takes a step against the powerful, democracy is a movement of redistribution of power, it is a movement of redistribution of wealth; what differentiates democracy from dictatorships is that in democracy power is a little more divided - all power does not have it by the powerful - and wealth is a little more divided. What we are asking of the banks is that they assume the democratic movement that says: man, for God's sake, in Spain can not only pay taxes the working people, small and medium-sized enterprises, you have to pay taxes too, and also you have to pay them because this is good for the country and it is good for you. It is good for the bank - even if some do not understand it - to pay taxes, because if the bank pays taxes we will have better public services, we will have better health, we will have better education, we will have better roads. [[Applauds]] And that will ultimately be good also for the banks, which of what they live is of the depositors. Because banks do not live by the fear they generate in some political elites, banks do not live abstractly on the financial market, they live that there are normal families that deposit their savings in banks. So, that it goes well for people too will end up making it go well for banks. And they will allow me to appeal to the major parliamentary groups to support the proposal we are bringing here today. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask you to keep your promise. You promised the Spaniards that the bank bailout would not cost the citizens a euro. You lied, it cost the citizens 60 billion euros. Today they have the opportunity to return the promise they made to the citizenry and that people don't have to cost money. [[Applauds]] And I don't think it would be a bad thing for the Citizens' Lords to take that little sambenite out of which they are the party of the banks and the IBEX 35, and today they could prove here that they serve anything more than to remove yellow bonds by supporting a proposal that goes for the benefit of the citizens in Spain. [[Applauds]] To the Socialist Party I will limit myself to reading a sentence: The bank was rescued by all the Spaniards; now we ask the bank to contribute to the rescue of the system that best represents the interests of all the Spaniards: their social security system. The phrase is by Pedro Sánchez in January of this year, what has happened since January? What's happened, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] I want to think that what happened has nothing to do with what happened in the Supreme Court: that when suddenly there is a sentence or a statement that affects certain very powerful gentlemen, the phones start ringing and where I said, I say Diego. Look, I'm almost going to ask you to support this but not to keep your promise, not to be consistent with what you said in January, not to stop looking like the IBEX 35 party, but for something that's much more important than all that: for Spain. Do it for Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Because Spain does not defend itself by boasting of who has the largest flag, Spain defends itself by protecting its people, and to protect its people it is necessary to say from time to time to those above that they also pay taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Green Group in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and the Green Group in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and the Green Group in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u6	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, took the first step in fixing positions. Mr MARTINEZ OBLANCA: Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Under the lure of a burden of solidarity, the preferred partners of the Government bring back to the Congress of Deputies one of the usual devices of their contant and sounding demagogy: the maneuver of taxation. In this case, you promote a collection mechanism that is novel, you can't even call it original, because you brought the initiative to the PSOE early in the register. It is also a complementary mechanism and added to the tax retahíla agreed and agreed on a month and a half ago in Moncloa by Mr Sánchez and by you, Mr Iglesias, and that if adopted in the form of a budget law - which seems not to be - it would put the Spaniards at a much higher tax burden in terms of the amendments and increases agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax system is fraught with distortions, beginning with territorial ones, and for Forum the financial sufficiency of the state and the increase in the collection depend not on the types of taxes or the creation of new tax figures, but on the increase in economic activity. This is an essential issue for those of us who advocate that the tax system must necessarily be configured within the framework defined by the Spanish Constitution and its inspiring principles of equality, progressiveness and equitable distribution of the tax burden. However, as we have already seen in the recent debate on a proposal for a law on the elimination of inheritance tax, for some it is above all the criteria and the confiscational anxieties that prevail. It is precisely for Spain in Foro that we defend the free development of private enterprise, believe in the control of expenditure and the enforcement of laws and aspire to a simple, clear and transparent tax system that favors economic activity in order to achieve greater income without the need to raise tax rates or make use of the recurring tax handle, which always has an impact on them. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u7	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I want to announce, as it cannot be otherwise, the favorable vote of Compromís to this PL that have brought us today the compañeras and compañeras of Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. However, there is one aspect of this PL that we do not finish to like, the title with which it presents itself: burden of solidarity; it does not finish to square us. And it doesn't suit us because we understand that it's not about solidarity, it's about justice. And we know that without social justice there is no democracy; we know that without economic resources there is no democracy, and we know that without material welfare there is no democracy. What good is democracy if it is not able to ensure material well-being? That is why we understand that this is not about solidarity, but about having sufficient resources to care for health, education, the change of productive model, etc. Democracy is endangered by fiscal demagogy, as the People's and Citizens' Party does, which only seek to drain our democracy from economic resources. I hope and hope that the President of the Government will be brave, because recovering money from bank bailout is nothing more than rescuing democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u9	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u10	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week I must remind you that at the moment there are political prisoners in pre-trial detention held by an absolutely despicable Supreme Court and that it is the shame of the whole State. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr. Iglesias, we are not going to support your initiative. You come up here with a lot of heart saying that we're going to get the money back from the bank, that we're going to make the banks pay. Man, you would have to explain to us what the initiative is to recover the money from the bank, which has been specifically received by the financial institutions in the budgetary agreement with the Socialist Party, before coming up with proposals here. Look, today it proposes that banks pay 40% of their tax base, but it also tells us that with 30% banks do not pay, and the proof is that you come to an agreement with the Socialist Party on budgets so that there is a minimum rate of 18%. Because this minimum rate is what they're going to pay, they're not going to pay 40%; don't fool people. This is an initiative for the gallery, because they will continue to compensate negative tax bases, they will continue to benefit from bonuses, deductions, and this 40% will not be effective. If you want to make a serious tax reform in this country - not in front of the gallery, but in effect - we can talk, we can find ourselves; there will be moments of coincidence and there will be moments of divergence, but these proposals only go well to arm the bases and say: we are the ones who are going to make the bank pay. You have the Government in your hand, you have the budgets, what measures have you included in the budgets to recover the money that financial institutions have received during this latest crisis? Is that how they're going to make the bank pay or they're going to make other entities pay? In any case, we will not support this initiative. We are open - the government group also knows this - to talk seriously about solvent tax reforms, with perspective and perhaps not much gallery but with a great deal of direct impact. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u11	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u12	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to establish an additional burden of solidarity with credit institutions. The truth is that we are somewhat surprised by this initiative, given that this group within the budgetary negotiation with the Government has reached an agreement establishing a minimum tax of 18% on the taxable basis of corporate tax for credit institutions and 15% for the rest, which would require taxing groups under tax consolidation and non-integrated companies in groups with a net turnover of EUR 20 million or more. Now, in this proposal, they request that the tax rate provided for in Article 29.6 of the corporation tax for credit institutions be increased by 10 percentage points, i.e. from the current 30 % to 40 %. My group does not understand how this measure fits with the one announced in the 18 % effective rate agreement. We don't know how they're going to do it, whether it's going to be complementary or if it's going to be something else. Moreover, when this spokesman asked someone from the proposing group, I was also not able to move if this was something complementary or substitutive to what was agreed by his group and the Government, so it gives the feeling that this agreement is either not final or not all the solid that should be when new measures are now being proposed. [[Rumors]] A tax review requires seriousness and legal certainty for those affected. It is not a question of applying one thing today and tomorrow another. Any reform of the tax system must be based on an analysis of the figures that are being applied in order to know its efficiency and effectiveness and, if it is to be reformed, it should be comprehensive, progressive, long-term and have as a priority the encouragement of economic activity and, indeed, the sufficient income to maintain expenditure and social cohesion. And, of course, this proposal does not follow what I have just mentioned, because it seems that they pose different things in the agreement and in this proposal. [[Rumors]] It is true that the economic crisis has called into question the financial system not only because of the aid granted to the sector in the amount of EUR 70 billion, but also because of all the bad practices carried out. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u13	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u14	We agree with that, but it must also be said that the bulk of the aid was for the cash register sector and that not all the cash registers and banks behaved in the same way. Therefore, we also understand that it should not be generalized. On the other hand, we must not forget that the role of this sector is also a social function, to boost the economy and to give SMEs access to credit to consolidate the path of growth and employment, and all this in a more regulated and supervised way - solvency, adequacy, liquidity, risk management - within the framework of Basel. Security must therefore also be given to this sector by means of a serious and unique proposal. Moreover, this group again forgets that in the State there are two more estates - that of Navarre and that of Euskadi - when they raise the basic character of their proposed law, so once again they forget that foral reservation. Our group is in favour of working together on how many debates and decisions to reform the tax system are taking place, but of course always from the basic principle of respect for the competition framework and, Mr de Podemos, in this PL, that is obvious to you. Finally, I would like to say that the title of the proposal for a law, a burden of solidarity, is a good slogan to sell the need for a surcharge to a sector that is in doubt about everything that has happened so far, but we also do not believe that society and the sector can be confused when they are supposed to have reached an agreement in a sense with the government on the increase of the corporation tax on banking. They now come to us with another proposal that was also registered in May 2018, with the previous PP government, and that, as I said, we do not know if it is complementary or substitute for what they have recently agreed with the government. For all that, given that Euskadi has jurisdiction over corporate tax because it is a concerted tax of autonomous regulation and that we also have a major corporate tax for banking, this group will vote against the proposed law and will therefore wait to position itself on the definitive tax reform that the government will propose, if necessary. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u15	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u16	Good afternoon, Madam President; good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to convey my condolences to the relatives of the person who died today in an accident in Vacarisses, and our closeness, our sadness at the situation of the injured and hospitalized people, and with difficulty to contain anger at the causes of so many accidents in roulés, the main one of which is the neglect of the Spanish State in its maintenance. Evidently, Esquerra Republicana stands in favour of this bill, even if it is only for a simple reason: because it is of justice. It is fair that the banks, but directly, indirectly, return everything they have done to the citizens. It's good enough to take hair, to give back what you owe to the one who owes it. A few days ago we saw in the press that the bank has already earned more money than the ransom cost. The profits accumulated in the main banks from January 2012 to September of this year are 63,690 million euros, 936 more than the cost of the rescue. They continue to get rich as the working classes, the middle classes, continue to pay the consequences of the economic crisis in a system that is increasingly moving towards a situation of greater inequality and concentration of capital. A crisis - let us recall - for which the financial sector and its leaders were also partly responsible. Their greedy and cowardly professional negligence were undoubted factors in the formation of the real estate bubble along with the complicity of the irresponsible politicians who trusted them and believed in the famous - in quotes - 'invisible hand' of the market and its supposed capacity for self-regulation. The bubble exploded, the accounts that were based on reports from various regulators and supervisors collapsed and the state came out in its rescue justified by the too big to fail, too big to fall. The financial companies had reached such magnitudes and were so deeply inserted into the economy that they were considered too large to let them fall - and they were a little smaller than they are now -, privatizing profits once again and socializing losses. The big question is whether the financial sector has assumed this responsibility. We believe that on the contrary, since they have not only achieved greater benefits, they have also been eliminated from competition and will be able to continue to gain even more in the future. Because this is the future perspective of this sector and it is well known that oligopolistic competition, like the current one in the banking sector, can result and results in less employment, in higher prices for the customer and above all in greater profit margins - parenthesis - Therefore, Esquerra Republicana is in favour of those measures undertaken with the aim of reversing this oligopolistic situation and that the banking entities contribute in a manner consistent with the risk assumed by the State. [[and much higher wages of their managers]] Just a couple of questions to finish. One is about public banking and the panorama that drew them. Public banking, yes, please, come soon, because the private has already shown us what it can give of itself. And I would like to say that the Catalans, in addition, feel particularly liberated in this respect. Because the caisses and the Catalan caisses system have been liquidated, with the relocation through the Fainé decree of the banks based in Catalonia, the truth is that we do not feel orphaned by banking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u17	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias, I do not believe. I do not believe that you will come up here and on the same day that the infamous agreement that you had to divide the judiciary with the People's Party and the Socialist Party is broken down, say that we have to support this for Spain, especially that we have to support this in order to remove the party sambenito of the IBEX 35. [[applause]] It will be because you say so and because you want us to support a sling of this caliber. Credit is the blood of the economy. You are competing hard with the Socialist Party to put taxes on everything that moves, but when you threaten to put taxes and then you end up putting them on everything that moves is that things stop moving, and when this happens to the credit sector you literally charge the economy. You, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, are irresponsible. First of all, you say that banking should be punished. No, the ones that would have to be punished are the bank managers, mainly those of savings banks. I am referring to politicians, such as the United Left, Mr Moral Santín, who, by the way, after having waited for us for hours in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis, is now serving a prison sentence of the Supreme Court - yes, there are people serving their sentences - and other leaders of the People's Party and the Socialist Party who ruled a few boxes and are basically those who have fallen out of the financial system. [[applause]] The financial system, whether we like it or not, is essential and bad practices must be pursued. I've heard many stories about surcharges, but you haven't explained what the famous surcharge is, which is to raise ten points in corporate tax to financial institutions. I'll be gentle if I say you haven't made the numbers. As the Socialist Party also said, this is what they expect to raise EUR 1 billion a year and thus pay a pension deficit, which does not fall by EUR 17 billion. They hope with a collection of EUR 1 billion a year to obtain the return of a rescue of EUR 60 billion. Indeed, they have not done so, and not only that, but they have not even thought at all about that tax, like that of other countries you mentioned, in order to rebuild, for example, a deposit guarantee fund to ensure financial stability. We could discuss that, but what you bring is a dip consisting of just raising, dry, 10 points the corporate tax rate. And this has a few effects. Firstly, it encourages fraud. If the other companies pay 25 % and the bank pays 40 %, the bank will divert its profits to any of those entities subject to a 25 % rate. Secondly, international banks will do business abroad; they will grant credits abroad, because nowhere, Mr. Iglesias, is the bank paying 40% on its profits. Even worse, the bank lost money in the crisis. When someone lends money - the bank and all the boxes, that's why they broke - and they have recognized a regime - it would be necessary to know about deferred tax assets - what does that mean? That the bank has guaranteed by all of us 30 billion euros of its losses; 100 billion euros of current 30 % losses: 30 billion. The direct effect of putting this on the table, Mr Iglesias, is that we will move on to guarantee the entire bank 10 billion euros more, 100 billion to 40%. That is to say, all Spaniards will guarantee EUR 10 billion more capital to the bank, and this is a small problem. In fact, there are a number of problems: first of all, this is state aid as a pinnacle because it breaks our agreements with the European Commission - De Guindos signed, but we have to respect them - and that would mean that we would have a state aid file, which would mean that no more loans would be granted here but would be granted abroad and that the rest of Europe's bank would report us to the Directorate-General for Competition, and it would also mean that the day on which this 30 000 guarantee - which would now be 40 billion thanks to its great idea - would be increased by 33 %. For example, the Santander Bank requested €400 million in 2016, for 2017; the following year it requested €1 billion. With your proposal, it would be EUR 1330 million, that is, it would end up costing us money. By the way, we try to do practical things and not nonsense. What does this translate into? [[Shows news of a newspaper]] As you can see in this news: 'Montero orders to monitor the absorption of the Popular', this return of 1000 million euros is being verified thanks to a provision that we introduced from Citizens in the budgets : the largest return in the history of Spain, because we - and an inspector who has inspected banks tells him - were tired of anyone who asks 3000 euros of return in the IRPF - and it is well proven - and do not check the largest returns in the history of Spain. [[applause]] What we couldn't expect - that's why I don't give credit - is for you to increase them from one day to another by 33%. Among the follies of this joke - by the way, that's why the People's Party government at the time, although doing the numbers wrong - it was said that this depreciated the state's participation in Bankia because the dividends would be subtracted from its new tax. The former Minister of Economy said that this was more money than was collected for the entire tax. I don't think so, but in any case, what is clear is that we will depreciate our participation in banking, sell it cheaper and, therefore, recover less money from the rescue. This, of course, is the idea that we have some: that Bankia should return to the private sector in the medium term; others, who consider that we have to have a public bank given the great experience we had with the boxes and replace professional managers such as Mr Goirigolzarri with his budgetary head, Mr Echenique - that is, imagine where the deposits were going to be - do not care because they do not want to reprivatize the banks involved and this is the only way to recover a euro from the ransom money. I'm closing, Madam President. Finally, banks actually pass on their costs to customers; all companies do. That is also a law of the market economy, and it is a pity that they have not explained it, but this is not a question of whether we are powerful or not, but of studying the articles, and there is one in the 2017 Review of Finance that says that 90% of this tax was passed on to customers in the case of the Hungarian tax. For all these reasons, not only with regard to this proposal for a law but many others, for us you have no credit, Mr. Churches, and we will vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u19	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. Today we are discussing the proposal for a United States law We can apply a surcharge of solidarity in credit institutions which, as the proposer and the rest of the spokespersons have already explained, results in amending the Companies Tax Act to tax financial institutions in ten more points for a period of four years. This is an initiative that we can simply share, but I think it is necessary to go into detail to determine the position of my group. A few weeks ago, the ten years have passed since the beginning of the financial crisis and much has been written and debated in this House too, but the reality is this: the macroeconomic levels have recovered and are even above the pre-crisis levels; the financial sector has been restructured with all that entails, less entities in the sector, closures of offices, job losses and, in theory - and I say in theory - the sector is more solvent than at the beginning of the crisis. Supervisors also have more elements to anticipate future crises, but the reality of many people is worse now than at the beginning of the crisis. This is the main problem for the Socialist Group and the current Government and where we are focusing. In the explanatory statement they talk about the cost of the rescue in our country. We can agree with the EUR 60 billion, what amounts of resources are already irrecoverable, is a figure around 5% of gross domestic product, which is above the EU average, which is around 2%, which does not include what is now being provided by Italy, but below the cost of countries such as Ireland, Greece or Portugal. It is a cost that has been borne by the State, by all the citizens of our country, by a model and by some tools that we have given ourselves in those years and that now, with the two European resolution mechanisms, it will be difficult for what has happened to date to happen again. When new entities are in difficulty, it will first be the shareholders and, subsequently, the debt holders who assume, first, the cost and, therefore, it will not be the citizens as a whole. This is what has happened with the People's Bank, and I will not go in to grapple with the causes because we are already debating this in the Financial Crisis Commission, where the resolution mechanisms were applied for the first time and where failures in the resolution architecture that we have given ourselves have also been detected, and where in principle this rescue was not going to have any cost to the State, but we have seen that it is EUR 2 billion in deferred tax assets. However, what is really bleeding in the case of the rescue of our country's bank is the situation that, due to the rescue of these entities, the state was contributing up to €60 billion to the financial institutions in trouble, while the citizenry, which was suffering as no one else the consequences of the economic crisis, saw their rights and freedoms cut, many of which have not yet recovered. We can say that while the consequences of the financial crisis have been borne by all of us, the benefits of economic recovery are not reaching the majority, especially the citizens who have suffered the most during the years of crisis. It must be the fiscal policy of the State and tax policy that allows us to define what kind of society we aspire to, what our collective priorities are and how we are prepared to finance them. The tax system is, therefore, the basis of the welfare state, the social state in capitals. Without sufficient public revenue, it is not possible to maintain a robust social state that guarantees equal opportunities. And in order to achieve these objectives, taxation must be fair and with sufficient collection capacity to maintain these services. These two principles have been diluted during the more than six years of the People's Party government, where the system's progressivity has been reduced and the collection potential has been diminished. The former executive, forgetting the constitutional obligation that you yourself have commented on in your intervention, forgot the obligation to have a system that guarantees and ensures the general interest and launched regressive fiscal policy measures, favouring direct taxation and promoting nominal interest rate reductions in corporate tax. Nor will I speak of the unjust and unconstitutional tax amnesty. The system's progressiveness, justice and collection sufficiency were broken. And that is also the situation that has been taking place in recent days when some people are talking about the tax system as something that puts their hands in citizens' pockets. There are people, many still, who unfortunately in our country have nothing in their pocket so that you or no one can get your hands on them; and that is why we need a sufficiently progressive collection system. Spain has also been characterized by maintaining a level of public revenue below the EU and OECD average of seven basic points. Therefore, our public spending volume is also six points below. Statistics show that Spain does not have an expenditure problem, but rather an income problem. That is why you and we signed a budget agreement a few weeks ago, which included a number of fiscal measures to restore that progressiveness and financial sufficiency. In that agreement, we chose to set minimum corporate tax rates because when all the collecting figures have already recovered pre-crisis income levels, corporate tax is still 50 % below what was collected before the onset of the crisis. This is largely due to the use of tax deductions and bonuses, which we also sign an agreement to reduce them by 5%, and which makes nominal tax or assessment far above what is effective. Ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, you were one of the two signatories of that agreement. The agreement itself only mentioned this tax to the bank as that, seeing the other measures that we do know and that are going to be more effective, and by the end of 2019, we could study the application of that tax. This hasn't been in January 2018 or May 2018, this has been just over a month and a half ago. That is why - the Socialists always comply with the agreements we signed - we understand that other measures included in the signed project itself were preceptive, more interesting and more effective than the one you bring us today, first, because the banks, especially the most international ones, have a high capacity to apply tax optimisation techniques, and we are seeing it, not only with the big banks, with all the companies that tax and that contribute to IBEX 35; second, because it has already come out how they would affect deferred tax only with the measure that you bring us here today, and third, because we consider - I believe that you too, because this is how you signed the agreement - that the other measures that we carried out in our budget plan are more effective. That is why I regret to say that from my group we cannot vote in favour of this initiative because, as I said, we are focusing on those which we consider to be most interesting and on which you and our chairman signed this budgetary agreement a month and a half ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Iglesias, do you know how much banks earned before taxes in 2007? All institutions, including credit institutions, earned 30 billion. Do you know how much they earn now, in 2017? All institutions, including credit institutions, minus EUR 647 million. In other words, they have lost EUR 647 million. Do you really want to sell us that they have banks are the great beneficiaries of this crisis? Who do you want to cheat on? This Parliament, as I see it, is not going to be fooled, although I believe they do not care, because their aim of deception is not us, but the people, and I must admit that they sometimes do, it is true. Then I will go back on the strategy of a populist party like yours, which divides the world between us and the rest, the good and the bad, the people and the elites, and in that category they bring the rich, the banks, the electric, the big surfaces and those who called caste until they bought a cassoplon in Galapagar. [[Applauds]] We are faced with a proposal for a law called euphemistically a surcharge of solidarity to credit institutions, although they should rather call it a sandblast to credit institutions, and basically follow the line of the budget plan proposed by the Government and agreed with you, a continuous sum of sandblasts: sandblasts to the autonomous, sandblasts to the enterprises, sandblasts to the owners of diesel vehicles, sandblasts to the middle incomes, to the high incomes and also sandblasts to the rich, although this is the small part, the majority of sandblasts is the rest of the population. As this bill is only an article we have time to analyze it with a little calm. Let's start with the title. Charge. According to the RAE, 'new charge is made to someone'. This I believe is the only truth of this bill. That is right, we want to charge back to the financial institutions that have already contributed some 30 billion to restructure and save the Spanish financial system. The contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the contributions to Sareb and the part of the aid recovered by the State must be added. Because we must remember that it is intended to place this burden on those entities that did well, that have survived this crisis so brutal that we have suffered, that they have helped to restructure the financial system and to recover the economy of this country, and that they have not received any aid, except for some exception. Those are the ones you seek to punish, not the guilty. Solidarity, solidarity, According to the RAE, 'circumstantial accession to the cause or company of others'. It is not even well used because the welfare of the country is not a cause outside the banks. What do you think banks prefer? That it goes well in Spain or that we are a country like, for example, Venezuela? It's true, the banks, all the companies, are interested in Spain doing well, it's a drawer. Therefore, it is not a burden of solidarity because it is not a cause for others. And since they use euphemism, let's see what the RAE says. 'Slow or decorous manifestation of ideas whose straight and frank expression would be harsh or unsounding'. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Churches, if you did not use this euphemism, what would you call this proposition of law? Be clear and honest. And brave, they haven't been. After the title we will analyze the content, the article, the only one. Here they are honest, I must admit, because they do not go by the branches, straight to the sandstone. They propose a ten-percent increase in corporation tax. Why a ten? For rounding? Have you considered anything else? Deferred tax assets, for example? Have you thought it will happen with credit if bank solvency is reduced abruptly? They didn't value anything, they don't care. This is a product that has very good sales and does not need even packaging. There is no minimum analysis in this proposal, either on the percentage or on the other characteristics of the tax or on the consequences. Nothing, just pure publicity by taking advantage of the fire against the bank, fire that you yourselves lit and in which you take care to keep the fire alive. I would now like to ask the proposing group, but also the Socialist Group, why impose a tax on an economic sector? There must be some reason, some justification or at least some positive consequence. Well, I haven't heard any. In this case, moreover, it is not justified because, for example, there are no negative externalities, such as pollution, or extraordinary benefits to be corrected by specific taxes, as we have already seen. It also creates discrimination against other economic sectors and competitors in the same sector in other countries or could even encourage the relocation of an entity. But it will also have implications for customers. From the review of the available international evidence it follows that these taxes end up negatively affecting the volume of loans and/or deposits and increase interest rates on loans and bank charges. But there are things that we must demand from financial institutions, and in that we must focus, not pay more taxes, that we have already seen that they cannot at present and that have no positive effects. We must hold them accountable for the risks they take; transparency, independence and social responsibility in their management; solvency and profitability in their balance sheets; contribution to the growth of our economy and to job creation. That, ladies and gentlemen, we must demand them and in that we must help them because it is for the benefit of all Spaniards that they achieve these objectives, and not put stones on the road as you do. Another recurring matter that I want to discuss with you. Do you really believe that public money was put in to help financial institutions, as if the State had an obligation or even a desire to save them? No, gentlemen, public money was invested to save the country, to rescue millions of savers and to avoid more costly bankruptcies for society. [[Applauds]] And this restructuring was done with another objective: to regain the capacity to finance growth and to be able to grow as we have since mid-2013 - this is the fifth consecutive year - although between you and the Socialist Party are doing everything possible to bring this growth to an end. I'm done, President. I have a doubt as to why you bring this bill. I do not know whether it will be taking the lead against the banks because the Socialist Party has advanced them with the royal decree on documented legal acts, whether it will be seeking public transcendence by electing one of their favorite enemies or whether it will be seeking to forget their internal situation, where the affiliates do not attend the acts they organize, where their own elected offices denounce the publication of the names of the candidates before the votes, where they change their own code of ethics so that their defendants do not have to resign or where resignations, resignations or escapes cause even one of the mayors of change, Mrs Carmena, to say that she does not have to talk to you. [[laughs]] Which one is it, Mr. Churches? You spoke of fear of the powerful, I, on the other hand, see fear in you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AND THE GUILLAUMS AND BATALLER AND THE BEITIALARRANGOITIA, ON BABYS ROBED IN THE SPANISH STATE. [[JOINT GROUP]] [[File number 122/00275]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u23	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of Mr Guillaumes and Mr Bataller and Mrs Beitialarrangoitia of the Joint Group on stolen babies in the Spanish State. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u24	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. What a good day to celebrate World Children's Day in this Congress! What a good occasion to bring this initiative and this legislative proposal! I want to begin my speech with my thanks to those who made it possible. On the one hand, to the association that was the promoter All the stolen children are also my children and, of course, to whom it has materialized, the State Coordinator of Support for the Argentine Querella. I would also like to thank the signatory groups and, of course, the international human rights associations that have endorsed it, such as Amnesty International or as has also done Pro Human Rights of Spain and the 17 associations of stolen babies that have supported this initiative. Thank you, because today we celebrate World Children's Day with a fundamental advance. Thanks also to the Cordoba Soledad Luque and all the women, and also men, who have fought against silence, against forgetfulness, defending what is yours, defending your children, defending your brothers, defending your identity. [[applause]] Thanks to all of you and you, who have made it possible and, of course, also fighting against the passiveness of public institutions. Spanish democracy has a huge debt to you and to you. Not even the Spanish Constitution has been used to address and solve the problem, the crime that has been committed in this country. The Constitution states that the State must guarantee the exercise of the rights and obligations of all Spanish citizens on an equal footing, and you and you have not been able to do so; it also recognizes the right to identity, to personal development, to the dignity of the human being, and has not been respected in your case. The words are therefore clearly insufficient. We know the facts despite the silence - atronador - we know them from July 1936, when political prisoners were taking their children from prison. Later, Francoist repression took the sons and daughters of the poorest women, who had a large family and were single mothers - in short, the weakest in society - to give them to those of the regime. But it is that impunity has kept them going on in democracy, and there have also been baby thefts in democracy, which is even more alarming. When we already had a rule that protected us all equally, it has also occurred. Therefore, the fact is a crime against humanity, as our proposition describes it. And in this proposal, fundamental issues are addressed, the problem is studied from an integral and restorative perspective. The proposal seeks not only to have sufficient tools to address the problem, but also normative instruments and, above all, resources. It has not been enough what has been done, nor those interdepartmental agreements of a few years ago when we see that really more than 2,000 judicial proceedings, 1700 are filed and the rest will also be filed because they are not investigated. What this proposal demands is what you and you are asking for, what you have been demanding from Spanish society, democracy and public institutions. [[Addressing the public gallery]] First, to know the truth. We have the right to know the truth and to know the truth we have to investigate, we have to put material and human means to investigate. It is necessary to ask those who can provide the information, because in many cases there has been a total and absolute refusal, as is the case with the Catholic Church, which has in many cases refused to provide crucial information to know the truth that has occurred in orphanages, hospitals, registers of parishes and churches and whose work must have been of collaboration, of contribution in order to clarify and not try to cover and hide, to put even more silence and to consider in some cases, as you have been considered by society, that it was a question of crazy people who had no credibility. That's the first thing you intend to do, to know the truth. Secondly, justice, and justice means, once we know the truth, knowing who committed that crime, who committed that crime, and that the law should fall on him, that he should not leave behind and that the suffering that had never had to occur and that it was because of his actions in some way is compensated, although it is impossible because moral damage and the interruption of human lives are impossible to compensate. Thirdly, the repair. It also takes human and material means to repair, to do an investigation, to do DNA tests and, ultimately, to be able to repair, which means regrouping or, at least, that everyone knows their identity and then everyone decides, which is the right to identity. Reparation is therefore essential, as is devoting the necessary material and human resources. Fourthly, it also provides resources and rules to ensure that this crime against humanity is not reoccurred and that there is no need in the future for those recommendations that have come from the United Nations, the European Parliament, the United Nations Rapporteur, the Ombudsman, on which the public authorities, in particular the Spanish State, have to protect and investigate and repair. This guarantee is important and is included in this law. It is a law, as I told Soledad, prudent, despite the serious nature of the problem. You have not asked for the impossible, you have asked for something feasible, reasonable, necessary. You've ordered tools. What tool did you ask for? A victim database, of course. The law itself states who is considered a victim in this case: all children who have been abducted, but also their relatives, are considered victims up to the fourth degree of consanguinity. That is necessary: on the one hand, knowing the victims through this database, it is also necessary to have a national DNA database. You have done an incredible job with the databases that you have created with agreements with some analysis companies to have that information, although clearly insufficient, as have some autonomous communities, trying, as in the case of Andalusia, Navarre or the Valencian Community, to alleviate the problem. But it is clearly insufficient, it has to be a much higher area and, at least, a state one. You have requested, requested and requested in this case a DNA database. We are calling for regulatory changes and bodies to deal with, a prosecutor's office specialized in missing persons, stolen babies; a judicial police station dependent on that prosecutor's office to be able to investigate in detail. Then you have asked for something that I consider very important to be a state identity rights commission. This state commission is very important because it is composed of qualified people from different disciplines, but also by those associations that, because of the involvement in the problem, defend the case of the stolen babies in this country. It is very important because this commission is responsible for categorizing who is the victim. Many victims, the vast majority, cannot provide evidence, only a credible account, and that must be assessed by the commission itself, just as the commission has to make a comprehensive and annual action plan in accordance with the provisions of this law and using the resources that this law has to make possible. The committee itself must also make a permanent and annual assessment of the progress made. Finally, something very important, the assistance you have needed, which you have missed in your orphanage; an assistance that must listen to you, try to understand you and try to collaborate with you and yourselves. I therefore ask all parliamentary groups today, World Children's Day, that the first step to redress the moral damage caused to all these people be that this legislative proposal comes out unanimously and that all political groups, parliamentary groups, demonstrate unity, the commitment to address solutions to this grave problem, to this crime against humanity, a crime perpetrated against humanity. I therefore look forward to that response from all of you and I look forward to the consensus and unanimity on this proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u25	Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde first spoke on the position-setting table by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. We will not tire of saying this: all victims deserve truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition without exceptions, those of Francoism and those after this black period of history. Today I would especially like to remind Josu Muguruza on the anniversary of his murder here in Madrid, on the occasion of his appointment as a Member of this House, to whom, unlike other victims, this Congress denies even the memory. Shut up, Josu. The differences between victims are notorious and unacceptable, and the impunity for the crimes of Francoism is absolute, despite the fact that Spain must enforce the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Convention for the Protection of Persons from Enforced Disappearance, all of which are obligations undertaken and ratified by Spain but on which it does not act. Although an important step in starting to do so would have been the reform of the Amnesty Law and the PSOE voted against, it seems that on the issue of stolen babies it is willing to act, and it seems to us a positive step. We sign this bill because we consider that the victims of Francoism, stolen babies and their families have the right to know the truth, to be repaired, to access the existing documentation about what happened and not to encounter the refusal of the Church or the Administration in the attempt to know what happened. They have the right to judicial guardianship, to have the prosecution act for the clarification of this criminal activity and to clear up responsibilities. It seeks to provide the necessary policy instruments and resources to give effect to the rights of these people who have been faced with obstacles arising from the desire to cover with a cloak of impunity everything that surrounds Francoism for years. This law sets out measures to this end, in order to strengthen the work to be carried out to search for and identify children who may have been victims of appropriation, guaranteeing a DNA bank that integrates genetic samples of the reported cases, proceeding to the exhumations that are necessary for this purpose. The passing of the years makes the task difficult; we cannot therefore waste any more time, the victims have every right to demand it, we cannot continue to condemn them to oblivion, and I therefore believe that it is appropriate to ask everyone to support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u27	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In the midst of the blemish of political confrontation we often forget to answer a very elementary question: what are the laws we make for? In the proposal for a law on stolen babies that now occupies us the answer is very clear: this law must serve to definitively close one of the blackest pages of Francoism, one of the blackest pages that left us and that today, forty years after the end of this regime, remains unaddressed. This is what a great civic movement demands, many of whose representatives are accompanying us here today in the rostrum, to which I would like to thank you because your push has been decisive for us to get to the point today. The longer we remain without finding out the truth, without giving answers to the mothers whose children were taken from them, without systematically promoting the action of justice, without fully repairing the damage produced, without establishing clear guarantees of non-repetition, the longer we continue to do so, the more we will persist in that immense crime of omission in which our entire community has so far been installed, insensitive to the thousands and thousands of people who have had to mourn in silence. Now let's talk here with our vote, so that at last they have voice and justice who have not had it for decades. In 2007, we reformed the Civil Code to give adopted persons their right to know the data on their biological origins, forcing public entities to provide them with the advice and assistance they needed. Let us now go this way, being aware also that we are going to put an end to an immense drama that began as part of an abominable project of punishment and re-education to an entire country and derived, as always in Francoism, into a simple immoral business: the business of stealing newborns, simulating their death in childbirth and handing them over to different families in exchange for money. Compromis has the honour to be one of the driving forces behind this proposed law, which will obviously be subject to technical improvements in the course of amendments. We look forward to working on those amendments soon, if the Bureau allows us to proceed quickly, which will bring hope to the thousands and thousands of people who want the legislative system to finally begin to remedy their anguish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u30	President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start with a personal allusion. I'm an adoptive father. It is a different situation because it is an international adoption, but I remember that when my wife and I decided to take that step, a situation very similar to what we are describing today when it was reported that in certain African countries - which I will not mention out of respect - there were cases of theft and sale of babies. I remember the obsession with which we tried to find a country where we were sure this would not have happened, more than anything because what has to be a love story between parents and children that lasts a lifetime cannot begin with a monstrous act. That is what we are talking about, gentlemen, a monstrous act that began with the Civil War, because surely they wanted to rescue babies from the hands of reds, rather than reds, as also happened in the Argentine and Chilean dictatorships. Later it was extended with situations not so controlled by the State already - although this whole issue was secret - but in hospitals, in centers dependent on the church, sometimes not, and it has ended already in full democracy, in the middle of the eighties as a simple mafia of stealing babies, tricking the parents to then sell them. Gentlemen, for dignity, there are people who have the right to know where it comes from. For justice, there are people who have the right to know if their children are still alive. For fairness, everyone has the right to security of attendance when going to a hospital, whether a public or private centre. That is why we have signed and supported the bill and ask them to vote in favour. Thank you, President, for your tolerance. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u32	Thank you very much, President. As one of its victims said in this House, the drama of stolen babies is one of those events that must embarrass us all. Because this is a drama that is not due to isolated events, but has had a historical dimension, dating from the 1940s to the 1990s, democracy already entered, in the last century, as evidenced by the Ombudsman, the National Audience itself and the UN Working Group on Enforced Disappearances. Drama of unusual proportions, as the National Audience itself in 2018 spoke of rational indications of 30,000 missing babies, a figure that, according to associations, is 300,000. And drama also because for lack of sufficient means for the investigation we do not have accurate knowledge of the dimension of what we are talking about, despite the chilling figure that the National High Court is talking about and which, by the way, is the lowest of all. It dramas because of the fact that only one of the reported cases has come to an oral hearing and in this one the statute of limitations of the offences has been declared, although the facts have been proved. It also plays because the rest of the reported cases have been archived for lack of evidence in the face of the passage of time and the difficulty of the victims to access files and medical records where to find documents that support the thefts and identify witnesses. Drama about the use by the courts of the statute of limitations to order the filing of complaints without understanding that the calculation of the statute of limitations of illegal detention does not begin with the age of majority of the person concerned, but at the time when the victim is not only aware of what happened to her, but is also able to overcome the pain barrier that causes her to report to her non-biological parents; courts that do not understand that the offences of simulating childbirth and falsity in the official document continue to unfold their effects and that, therefore, criminal conduct is maintained. We trust that the Supreme Court will resolve the statute of limitations in cases of stolen babies sooner rather than later for the unification of the doctrine through the cassation appeal filed by the prosecution for this purpose. It also plays because the victims were among the most vulnerable in society: socially stigmatized single mothers without social support, who were deceived by the death of their newborns, who were sold or given up for adoption to what were called opportune families; and newborn children who are again victims when they know their situation and their lives crumble as they suffer a crisis of identity. It also dramas because the perpetrators of this atrocity of child theft used public and private institutions that not only did not avoid the situation, but, when they started and stepped up the complaints, did not provide an effective response to their clarification. The victims have urged us, with an institutional response that is not fully effective, to be able to documentally reconstruct their lives, under what conditions they were separated from their mothers and what happened; and the mothers want their stolen children to know that they were not left behind. The Ombudsman himself, in his reports of 2017 and 2018, echoing the victims' claims and complaints before the - in his opinion - poor response of the Administration regarding these investigations, has specified the measures that would have to be taken to overcome the problems with which they find themselves for the clarification of the reported facts, which are precisely a good part of those that appear in the proposed law that we are now debating for their consideration and which represent a step forward regarding those already taken so far not only to respond to the victims' demands, but also to better comply with the legal frameworks own and international in which the public authorities develop our action regarding the right to own identity and the free development of personality as manifestations of the dignity of the person. This is recognized by the same Constitution in its article 10.1; the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, when it speaks of the right to know one's filiation and identity; the United Nations Protocol to Prevent and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Children and Women; or the Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, which mandates States against the appropriation of children subjected to forced separation and against documentary manipulation that conceals their true identity. They are international legal frameworks whose follow-up in Spain has motivated various reports in which it is urged to clarify the thefts and abductions of children in hospital maternity wards, handed over for adoption illegally in exchange for money after the Civil War and even after the return of democracy and, at times, with the knowledge of public authorities and employees. I'm closing the date. The proposal for a law that we take into consideration comes to give a comprehensive response to the concerns of the victims, who ask us to help, who ask us to fight with them and with them for justice, who ask us to accompany them on the way to truth and reparation. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposal for a law because the frontier of our dignity as a society lies in the justice, truth and reparation of victims who ask us for our help. We can't deny it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u33	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u34	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly because, as it cannot be otherwise, this parliamentary group will support the initiative that we are in fact presenting already in 2011. They paid for me more than one floor. My parents confessed to me that they had bought me. A priest made a choice between a child or a child. They bought me for 150,000 pesetas. My daughter was taken from me for being a single mother. They told me that the girl had died, they did not let me see her; now I know that she is alive, that she lives in Valencia, that she is fifty-one years old and that she is looking for me. When we opened the niche where my daughter should be, there was only cotton and a box of stones. For three days they were teaching us a girl in the incubator that I knew she wasn't my daughter. They finally told us he was dead. Then a doctor was like a god, I never imagined they were stealing my daughter. Stolen kids don't die in an incubator, we're alive and we're thousands. At the age of five they told me that they had adopted me; at the age of twelve they told me the truth, that they had stolen me; now I am fifty-four years old and I am still looking for my mother. I wasn't sellable, I was sick and I was seven months old. The buyers wanted healthy, white and handsome children, that saved me; not my sister. Two books were taken to the hospital offices, one for official income data, the other for new parents'purchase data. That's all gone. We want to know who did it. When you entered motherhood they made you another baptismal departure, they enrolled you again. The stolen children we have two baptismal games, that's perhaps the key. I'm a stolen girl and now I know that they left a orphaned woman as a daughter who carried a grief that we both now share. We have come out of the closet of shame to buy you and to compare you with parents with whom you do not recognize yourself in their eyes or in their hands or in their gestures. I don't want to die without telling my son that I didn't give him the respect he deserved, without telling him that he was stolen; I won't stop. I gave birth to twins. I fell asleep. When I woke up, the nurse told me I had only one child. When I protested, he told me that maybe he was taking away my other son, too. I'm older, I don't know if my mother is alive or dead and I'm sure she never knows, but I'm here to help the rest, even if it's just one of them, get her family back. These are cases, they're testimonies. There are three hundred thousand - in this country there may have been more child thefts than adoptions - for sixty years, from Algeciras to Girona, from Valencia to Cáceres, from 50,000 pesetas to 1 million, an organized network of doctors, midwives, nuns, priests, civil servants and politicians, Francoists and not so Francoists, from the 1930s to the 1990s. What's worse than stealing someone's son? What's worse? I ask you today, ladies and gentlemen, please, please, please, let us put aside our acronyms and make them regain their identity. Otherwise, we don't deserve to be here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u35	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that I too was going to read you some testimony, but I believe that you have already read more than enough for your ladies and gentlemen to make a composition of place. I will only draw your attention to one of the phrases that is most repeated in those testimonies: don't worry, we take care of everything. They always took care of everything. That was the last sentence these heartless people were saying to their victims. Every testimony you have heard, as Consuelo García says in the prologue of this book Way of Justice, is a direct horn to the heart that nothing and no one can ignore, but it also implies a lesson of love, a lesson of honor for that unbreakable struggle that still continues. Thanks to all the people who have testified, who have brought your cases to light, your personal and family intimacy, with the sole objective of knowing the truth and achieving justice. [[Applauds]] Thanks also for your constancy, with which you have always faced the complexity of the bureaucracy or the processes, for that lack of evidence that has so many times led you to dead ends; also constancy against the opacity of the public administrations, against their lack of collaboration, or when you have suffered from the poor functioning of that office of care or the lack of collaboration of the hospitals and clinics where these abductions were committed. Cases of stolen babies in Spain remain unresolved. Most of them are provisionally archived for lack of evidence or known authors. But it is that constancy, that commitment, combined with the arrival of new sensibilities to politics, of new sensibilities to this House, that are succeeding in overcoming the difficulties and overcoming so many years of oblivion and silence on the part of the institutions. However, it is not my intention today to provoke confrontation, out of respect for the victims. Nor do I want to criticize any sentence, because we Citizens do not like to criticize the sentences, however much we do not like some. Nor will I stop to analyze the origin and fate of these organized plots because the victims know it very well. They know very well that they were not limited to the Franco dictatorship, which they continued during democracy; and they also know that they are also not exceptional of the Spanish State, which has also happened in other parts of the world. I would like to focus on highlighting the commitment and focus of the victims to promote all the meetings we have been holding during this time, to promote the round table that we have held here in Congress, associations and political formations, which highlighted the need to address an initiative such as this one that works and addresses this problem in an integral way, as well as the consensus on that initiative. Nor do I forget that it was you, the victims' associations, who, by contacting the European institutions, motivated the visit of a delegation of the European Union, following that denunciation and subsequent request of the European Parliament to our Government to ensure family access to the relevant archives. I would also like to acknowledge the work and personal commitment that has involved us in a group of parliamentarians, which has made us allies above the acronyms. David, Maria Jesús Moro, Ana, Feliu-Joan, Enric, Antonio and Ester Capella, among others, for all of us, for all the work that remains to be done, this text is a good starting point. There are elements that can certainly be improved. This initiative that, as you know, comes from the association All the stolen children are also my children - thank you, Soledad - now has to be opened and enriched with the participation of the other associations with the initiatives already approved in autonomous parliaments or in commissions of this same Congress, with the recommendations of the Ombudsman and with appearances and amendments that enrich the text and that are constructive. They have the good will of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to deal with this law; a law that recognizes the right to the truth, and that contemplates the instruments and mechanisms necessary to give substance to this right; a law that allows those responsible, those organized mafias, unscrupulous criminals who to date have not dared to face, tell the truth and help to repair the damage they have caused; but, above all, a law that serves to help all those people who are looking for their children, all those people who are looking for their parents, their identity and their roots. Look, if with the measures provided for in this law only one mother would be reunited with her son, all the efforts we make under this law would be worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u37	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Carracedo Verde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u38	President, ladies and gentlemen, we've finally brought him here. Within the coffin where my son was supposed to be sitting was the arm of an adult; 1980, Laura Perales was two days with her baby before she was told that she had died. Thirty-one years later a judge authorizes the exhumation of the body and finds the arm of an adult. The filing order claims that it is impossible to investigate for lack of economic resources. Yesterday Laura told me that when she goes to the courts and asks her: if there is no child, there is no crime, there is no case. Year 2001, Huelva, Lourdes Rodríguez has a twin birth; they tell him that one has died. When years later she discovers that there is no record that she has given birth in the hospital, the suspicions begin, the verification of papers and, finally, the complaint, which is automatically filed. That is to say, today there is a minor, the object of trafficking, who walks through the streets of this country, but the juvenile prosecutor's office does not investigate his whereabouts because it has prescribed. This is a sample of the thousands of cases that have been reported and filed in this country. Everyone has in common inconsistencies in official papers. All these cases also have pain in common; pain when they were told that their children had died, pain when they began to suspect that there was something strange, pain every time they see a baby, a child, a child, or a teenager and they feel that they have been robbed of fatherhood and motherhood, and it is a pain that does not happen; it is a pain that has come to be and to stay. [[Applauds]] In this year and a half I have heard hundreds of stories, my tears have been dropped and I have even come to vomit for the suffering of the people who are looking for a family member whom they have never known for the frustration of being taken for crazy according to the gender mandate that passes through this theme from above or, which is worse, not because they think they are crazy, but because they believe them and they say to them in good will: Let it pass, that you will not get anything. [[Applauds]] They are words said probably with very good will, but they speak very badly of this country and of the confidence of the public servants themselves in the institutions and in the justice that is imparted here. This has a name and is called impunity and, if there is impunity, there is no democracy. If there is still one who doesn't understand why we were shouting that they call it democracy and it isn't, I bring you several newspapers, and start by reading them the ABC headline in 1977: 'Extreme indignation in Mallorca over the sale of newborns. Half a dozen people have already made statements.' We go to 1981 and at the San Ramón Clinic, where a report is made, there is a frozen baby, the stories of the people affected are published and still nothing happens: Doctor Vela closes the clinic, goes with the chiringuito elsewhere and follows the party. In the 1990s, in Granada, the prosecution's investigations discovered the sale of five children in less than a year. This is a sample, but if you don't trust my press clippings, I'll bring you a document to your lordships of bipartisanism that has ruled this country in recent decades, which may sound like it. It is Law 21/1987, which came to be called the Law on Adoptions of Democracy, in which the preamble - and I do not invent it myself, as the preamble, adopted in this House - accuses the previous legislation of an almost absolute lack of control over the actions preceding the adoption. This lack of control sometimes allowed the hateful trafficking of children as the media put it. Can anyone explain to me how it is possible that twenty years ago in this House it was recognized that in this country there was the hateful trafficking of children and twenty-one years later we have to bring a law here to create a police unit to investigate it? [[Applauds]] Can anyone explain to me why twenty-one years later the Attorney General's Office has not yet established a specialized prosecutor's office to investigate these hateful child trafficking networks and we have to do so again today by law? Or why twenty-one years later do the affected people still have no psychological assistance, no legal assistance, without being allowed to consult the archives where the information that would allow them to find their loved ones is? Maybe the problem comes from before, a long time before. In the film that premiered last Friday The silence of others, we talk about the pact of oblivion that made the Amnesty Law possible, and I was struck by the words of Xabier Arzalluz in that debate that he raised: It is simply a forgetfulness, an amnesty for all, a forgetfulness for all. It is a final point law that, by the way, according to international parameters, is illegal, and its pact of silence on the crimes of Francoism has also extended to cases of babies that occurred after the Constitution, because the criminals in charge of these networks during the Francoism were the same before and after the Constitution: they are the same people, the same hospitals; the criminals, who were the ones who handled them, were responsible during the Francoism and after. Thus, silence has been the response most of which has been given by judges, prosecutors, politicians and administrative officials. Today we put here one more brick in the task of breaking that pact of silence. Not by chance the main value of this law that has the support of the other associations of stolen babies is CeAQUA, a collective that works to build democratic memory in this country using universal justice. I wanted to honor the journalists here who have been breaking this silence for years: Ana María Pascual, María José Esteso Poves, partner of Diagonal, Alejandro Torrús and especially Luis Gordillo, who died in 2016. I also thank Elena Martínez, who has eaten the coordination of the intergroup meetings to work on this law. [[Applauds]] I also wanted to express my thanks to two Members whose groups did not register this law, Marcial Gómez of the Citizens' Group, and especially to María Jesús Moro of the PP, for his willingness to listen, for his willingness to empathize with the pain and for his participation in meetings and forums where we gradually went building a consensus. Thank you, Mary Jesus, for accepting the two amendments to the State General Budgets that allowed this issue to remain on the media agenda. Thanks to the two of us for supporting the days of'Stolen Babies, a lifetime of searching' last June 25, in which we share reflections along with the associations and seal our joint commitment of the political groups present here to put effective measures on the table. Finally, today in this Parliament we begin to listen, many years after 1977, to the recommendations of the international community, of the UN Special Rapporteur on enforced disappearances and of the European Parliament, because the treaties and conventions that Spain has signed on human rights compromise the Spanish State, because according to international human rights law treaties are neither supplementary nor complementary to the laws of each country, are above, are mandatory, and these treaties define the theft of babies as a crime against humanity and do not prescribe. Let someone then explain to us what is happening so that Dr. Vela has been acquitted by statute of limitations if Spain, this Parliament, has ratified those treaties that they say he does not prescribe. [[Applauds]] In case someone has not yet understood what role we play here, human rights are about to be fulfilled, and we will not stop until we achieve it fully. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u39	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Clavell López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would not like to start my intervention without greeting and hugging - we have already done it from above and now we do it from below - from the People's Parliamentary Group to all the associations of stolen babies, of stolen children, who honor us with their presence from the guest gallery. You are welcome, for you are undoubtedly the driving force behind this initiative. [[Applauds]] The proponents of this bill are well aware that we have studied, and very carefully, the proposal that brings us to the plenary session of the Congress. Studying it, I say, I would like to stress very carefully that there is indeed much to be done on this matter, of course, and it must be acknowledged. But it is also not fair to fail to acknowledge that things have already been done with the last Government of the People's Party, and one of them is that the coordination mechanisms with the prosecutor's office that have been in place since then are functioning properly, and for this purpose the Ministry of Justice has the cooperation of several members of the public prosecutor's career who carry out advisory and support work in this area. The Office of the Attorney-General is represented under the partnership agreement signed on 26 February 2013 by the Ministries of Justice, Interior and Health, Social Services and Equality and the above-mentioned Office of the Attorney-General, and the said representatives are accountable for the activities carried out in their own field. The agreement provides for the establishment of a monitoring commission, as well as the establishment, under the authority of the Ministry of Justice, of the information office to be affected by the possible abduction of newborns. Since then, public administrations have undertaken to institutionally support potential stakeholders and to facilitate the process of searching for and collecting information and documentation relating to their natural affiliation. On the other hand, as far as DNA evidence is concerned, it has already been dealt with in those cases in which the procedure has been judicialized and in the framework of it it is requested by the judicial or prosecutorial authority. Similarly, those affected who have been tested for DNA in private laboratories can incorporate DNA free of charge and become part of the unique DNA database of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences. Therefore, the database collects the profiles that have been judicialized, such as these contributed to the purposes and carried out in private laboratories, producing information crosses of all of them. The People's Party Government's claim was always, among other things, to assist victims in the search for information and to create and make available to them an information service that is accompanied by the genetic profiling database. In addition to the Government, the Office of the Attorney-General also issued a circular in 2012 on the unification of criteria in procedures for the abduction of newborn children. He sought a legal path to keep these cases alive, classifying the theft of babies as an offence of permanent unlawful detention, so that the statute of limitations does not begin to run as long as the victim is kept unaware of his or her biological origin. Ladies and gentlemen, no one, absolutely no one has the right to take away from a mother what he wants most in this life, which is a child. That is why, in the face of this very serious matter, which must be finally and effectively resolved, the People's Parliamentary Group immediately joins this initiative by voting in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the rise of the diesel tax. Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, everything in the current Sánchez Government is a great timidity. First, they said they would never ally themselves with populists and independenceists, that they wouldn't even go to the corner with them, for God's sake! And we see, now. Second, they said that the motion of censure was instrumental, that its aim was to evict the PP and give the people the voice, calling elections immediately. We see it, we see it. Thirdly, Mr Sánchez said - not the president, we already know, Mrs Calvo - that anyone who set up instrumental societies to pay less to the tax would never be part of his government, or would quickly leave when it was discovered. We see it, too, we see it. Fourthly, events in Catalonia undoubtedly had all the requirements to define the crime as rebellion. We've seen it, too. Fifthly, no one can govern without budgets, because it is the main instrument of economic policy, the instrument that identifies the philosophy of any Government, in which one leaves his mark. Therefore, it cannot be governed without budgets or, in any case, with those of another. We see it, too, now. And so we could continue with many examples; many timos, believe me. But perhaps the most shocking thing for the Spanish citizens - in other words, for the pocket of the Spanish citizens - is the core of the taxes; that core which says that the taxes that will be created or modified will only be paid by the rich. That's where they got over it. They deceive people by saying that they are taxes that the rich or privileged in this country are going to pay, and they know perfectly well that they are not. We are talking about taxes such as documented legal acts, which citizens will never pay again and from now on they will pay the bank. But do they really believe it? Or the technology tax. Of course, they're multinationals and they're not going to transfer the tax to the users. Also, sure. But the best is the rise of the diesel tax, a tax that affects 18 million users, all of them, according to you, rich, of course, safe; not to mention the thousands of homes, many located in rural and isolated areas, which have heating systems that feed on diesel, must also be all of them very powerful, safe homes, right? We do not know who is going to be left out and who is not, but we are afraid that if we do not stop it, it will end up affecting 500 000 people in this country, 500 000 workers, transporters with vehicles of less than seven and a half tons, taxi drivers, distributors, insurance agents, commercials, etc. That is, professionals who require the use of the vehicle as an essential tool to carry out their work. We are faced with a tax that has very serious direct consequences for consumers, but we must also not underestimate the effect it can have on the sector that is essential for the Spanish case, which is the car sector. Our country is the second European car manufacturer and the eighth in the world, with a huge economic impact because it accounts for almost 9 % of GDP, with an equally huge impact on the trade balance because we export eight out of ten vehicles, so we are an exporting power, just as it has a huge impact on employment, as it represents in direct and indirect terms around 9 % of the employed population. In short, the rise in this tax has, I am afraid, many consequences, but none of them is positive; well, yes, forgive, there is a positive consequence, according to the Government, since, as the Minister has argued, this rise is framed in a context of environmentally friendly fiscal changes and, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that if that were the case, we would share that argument, if that were their real motivation. But, unfortunately, it's not, you look where you look. I'll give you a thought. If that were the real goal, which really pushes the government to raise the tax burden, one of the key points of the measure would be to promote the renewal of the old Spanish mobile park, which exceeds twelve years. We all know that vehicles over ten years of age are the most polluting, far above the recently manufactured diesel. Anyone who knows the sector at least knows this, knows that any emission reduction policy necessarily goes through this renewal; moreover, as a complement to this essential measure, the renovation of the park should be aimed at replacing, let us say, traditional vehicles with new, obviously cleaner electric vehicles. In other words, the collection obtained should be intended for renovation, allowing, in addition, an increase in the purchase of electric vehicles through a powerful system of aids and incentives. In fact, that is precisely what the Government has done to justify the rise, but, again, this Government deceives the citizens. The harsh reality is that the government is postponing this incentive system, this aid, to 2020 and in that year will only allocate 30% of the money collected to these incentives. So, here we find a new thyme. If that collected money is not used for what they said, what is it going to be used for? Since it is clear that it will not be allocated to environmental issues, what are they going to do with it? Will they use it to maintain President Sánchez's life train or, rather, the life plane? Will they use it to fly to Valladolid or Falcon to Toledo? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, reality again discovers the deceptions of this government. This tax is purely collective; estimated by themselves, about 670 million, i.e., more than the joint rise of the wealth and income tax on which they call rich. It is a tax to obtain new revenue to finance presidential whims or the occurrences of censorship partners. It's so obvious. In short, ladies and gentlemen, because we are against timidizing the Spanish citizen and because the impact is enormously serious on the most vulnerable groups, on those who have promoted economic recovery in this country and on employment, we find plenty of reasons to call on this government to curb its collecting anxiety. Gentlemen of the Government, dedicate your efforts to truly offering cleaner alternatives without demonising the diesel and not making Spanish citizens pay for their incompetence. Finally, if you really want to increase the collection, as it seems to be your goal, you can do it without increasing the taxation, without increasing the taxes; indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the left, even if you do not believe it, we have experience, we have done it. It is possible because if they favour economic activity, the tax bases for growth are broadened. It's pure math. In this we believe in the People's Party, in favour of economic activity, not in freezing people's taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal voraciousness on the left is a mania that is really very difficult to understand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u44	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Bel Accensi spoke by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u45	Thank you very much. The truth is that this proposal is curious. We have tabled an amendment that is not dogmatic; we do not think that the diesel tax is going to be touched dogmatically, nor does it seem to us that it has to be touched non-dogmatically. At the time, the People's Party increased excise duties on hydrocarbons. The Socialist Party was then opposed; now, when the Socialist Party announces it - I do not say that we share it 100% - the People's Party presents a GNP to say that excise duties should not be raised in this area. In any case, our proposal was to seek a common strategy, a strategy agreed in the field of environmental taxation. I think that would be most reasonable; it would be reasonable for both of us; it would be reasonable not to raise the diesel tax, although perhaps it should be raised if we frame it within a global strategy and send a clear message to society. Perhaps we should not act simply towards the gallery or creating uncertainty in a sector which, lately - I am not saying that with specific legislation, but with many statements - is being harmed absolutely unjustifiably. This pact should be not only among those we are here, but also among those affected, such as the car sector or trade unions, and other economic actors should also be taken into account. Our amendment goes that way. If it did not succeed, we would vote against the proposal by the Group of the European People's Party, without this implying that the proposals of the Socialist Party or the Government are being endorsed, of which, at least in our group, we are learning from the press. As they have appointed the nationalists, the independenceists, and so on, I will tell you that you are campaigning in Andalusia; I give you one piece of advice: talk more about Andalusia and less about Catalonia; the Andalusians are going to thank you and the Catalans are going to thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pick it up on. I must admit that I was expecting the intervention, perhaps because I had previously seen that of your fellow Popular Party in the Basque Parliament; it is a more catastrophic, more alarmist, more dramatic intervention, almost with the air of Mad Max. He's taken her on the other side of his style book, which is about taxes and how bad reds are, who just want to raise taxes because they're little less than public vampires. I think he is doing a little bit of a favour to the debate that is taking place here, because the debate that is taking place here is a much deeper debate than what you have moved. I could ask you two or three very simple questions here. You are not against diesel, so how do you explain that in the years in which you have ruled the diesel ratio has fallen from 70 to 30%? No action has been taken against diesel but it has fallen from 70 % to 30 %. You are not against diesel and, in fact, you applied a bonus percentage of 28% to other fuels. What did that bonus do? Not even to stop the decline in the diesel ratio, why?, because there is a structural problem. Where does that structural problem come from? Its lack of competitiveness. How do they try to avoid this lack of competitiveness? For in two ways: in a more or less legal way, which would be that of the bonuses, and in another way directly illegal, which is that of the dieselgate, that of the lie and the falsification in the dispatch of environmental gases. That is the real debate that should be held here. If we know that fossil energies are finite and we know that sooner or later we will have to address a reordering of the energy sector in order to move towards clean energies - hopefully sooner rather than later -, each day we lose is a day that loses the whole, because I suppose that all of us, including you and I, could agree that the most important thing, if not for ourselves for future generations, will be the sustainability of life; and in order for life to be sustainable, there will have to be the planet and, if you continue to bet on polluting and devastating energies, there will probably be nothing. But none of that appears in your amendment because they have really made, as in everything else, a new fireworks fire to rip off the Sánchez government and, by the way, mix it all up and talk about the independenceists and all that is possible. But, well, it's his style.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Gómez García has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u49	Thank you very much, President. It is difficult for the Government to do worse than it has done on this issue, and all for making a decision without thinking about the consequences; for making a decision for ideological sectarianism or for making a decision just thinking about how to get money to please its populist independent partners in this way. Either of the two reasons is bad, but I don't know which one is worse than the two. The disgovernment of this Government is such that we have seen how the Minister of Ecological Transition said one thing, at two o'clock the Minister of Industry said another and, at four o'clock, the Minister of Finance said another different. But, as I say, the consequences of rising diesel will be for millions of drivers who use these types of vehicles. It has not been thought that the self-employed every day have to lift the blind and that in this way we will make it a little harder for them to reach the end of the month; it has not been thought of those people who have to go to work every day and have no other means of transport to go to work; it has not been thought of the people who live in the villages and that neither has any other means of transport than their diesel car. But, of course, it has not been thought about because this government is not affected by this. This government is so concerned about the climate change that it mobilizes with a Super Puma helicopter, a Falcon and an Airbus to go to Valladolid, a journey that can be made in AVE in fifty-five minutes. [[The Lord]] This government mobilizes all that aeronautical troops, but, yes, it does tell the Spaniards that they are the polluters. [[Applauds]] Nor do taxes affect this government because they set up instrumental societies like Màxim Huerta, like Pedro Duque, like Calviño and as the Secretary of State for Sport, and ready. But neither has this government thought about the consequences that it would have on the country's first industry, which is the automotive industry; it is an industry that employs, directly or indirectly, about 2 million families, which accounts for 18% of its exports, 10% of GDP and, as has been said, Spain is the second largest European vehicle producer and the eighth largest in the world. It is a measure, the rise in diesel, which is already having its consequences on production: in September production fell by 23 % over the same month of the previous year, and sales in October fell by 6,6 % over the same month of the previous year. But not having enough with all this misconceptions with the diesel ads, the government has had a new announcement that in 2040 no more combustion cars will be sold in Spain and in 2050 they will not be able to circulate. This government still doesn't know if it's going to bring the 2019 accounts, but it's already thinking about legislating by 2050. I think the government should stop being ridiculous. Because this measure, while agreeing that we must go towards a decarbonisation of our country, that we must go towards the electric vehicle, has been done without any criteria, without any planning and without any consensus. So much so - that has not been done with consensus - that last week the employer and the unions planted the minister in a call she made. As I say, this decarbonisation has to be done with planning in order not to charge us with the first industry in this country, because, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen in Valladolid if Renault were to be closed?, what would happen in Zaragoza would happen if Opel were to be closed?, what would happen in Valencia if Ford were to be closed?, what would happen in Vigo if Peugeot were to be closed? As I say, it has also been done without any endowment. The United Kingdom has approved a plan of £1.5 billion for the electric vehicle, Germany of €1 billion and Spain, in five years, has barely spent more than €70 million. This year in the 2018 budgets there were more than 60 million euros and they have not yet been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, neither are you to take much breasts because the biggest tax increase in the history of democracy in Spain was made by the People's Party with Casado as spokesman for the People's Party. Nor can they take a lot of heart because in all these years they have not taken any measures to favour the electric vehicle as it should, despite the adoption of a sectoral agenda with twenty measures; but you have done nothing. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we will work without ideological sectarianism, with all the actors involved in the sector, to draw up a national strategy that will allow our automotive industry to adapt to the important and fundamental challenges it faces, and allow it to remain the leader and tractor of the Spanish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the United Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor. Mr VENDRELL GARDENES: Thank you, President. Good afternoon. That the PP is now presented on behalf of the diesel as the defender of the vulnerable, of the middle classes, as the PNL says, is the height of cynicism. That the party of labor reform, of labor poverty, of the greater increase of inequalities, of precariousness, of the greater rise of taxes to the middle class and of the tax amnesties to the rich now say to defend the middle class seems shameful to us. The party of the most expensive prices of electricity and energy poverty now tells us about the vulnerable, and that is to have a lot of face. The debate on the energy transition requires rigour, because the health of people and the environment is at stake; it is serious, because the car sector in Spain is very important and generates many jobs and, above all, honesty: people have to be told the truth, and we have to explain which country we want. In Spain and throughout Europe we have a problem with hydrocarbons, petrol and diesel because they account for almost 30% of CO2 emissions, which cause climate change, among other polluting emissions. For years, the sale of these types of vehicles was promoted because it was believed that they emit less greenhouse gases and that they were not particularly harmful. What's the scientific evidence today? Well, a wrong message was sent to the citizenry. According to the European Environment Agency, air pollution is the greatest individual health hazard: there were 487,000 premature deaths in 2014 in Europe, much more than in traffic accidents. According to the National School of Health, 93 000 premature deaths have occurred in the past ten years as a result of carbon dioxide, tropospheric ozone and air particles coming out of exhaust pipes, in addition to the worsening of respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. To what social class do you believe that people affected by pollution belong? Well, they're working people and middle class people living in big cities. In fact, the European Commission has been about to fine Spain if it does not become because of the plans presented by Madrid and Barcelona. You always talk about technological neutrality, but what we cannot be neutral or indifferent to is scientific evidence. It must also be said that the Government is mismanaging the issue of diesel. The measure he has put forward cannot be either the first or the only, nor is it even the most important. We are very surprised that in the relevant section of the climate change law, the draft that has been presented publicly, there are no environmental taxation measures. We are very afraid that raising the diesel tax has an environmental envelope, but a collection objective. Such measures should be accompanied by other measures to encourage the switch to non-polluting vehicles. And you can't announce one measure without the other, you can't hit the headline. What cannot be done is that the working people are the most harmed by the old dirty and polluting model, and they are also harmed by the transition process. That cannot be, the ecological transition, which has to be, will be socially just or will not be. Self-employed people, people who work hard with their vehicles to earn a living, must be prevented from being harmed by this issue. Because the issue is not gasoline or diesel; the issue is to electrify mobility, move towards a zero emission horizon, and that is only done with the electric vehicle and public transport. When the Government proposes to prohibit the registration of internal combustion vehicles in 2040, it must plan what will happen from now on: what are the intermediate objectives, what types of aid will be received, with what criteria, with what promotion of public transport; it is not only the announcement of a certain measure. The green transition also requires, as other countries are doing, a new industrial policy of change in the car sector that guarantees jobs, a programme to encourage clean vehicles that favour lower incomes and obviously promote public transport. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this debate is not new; the equalization of taxation on petrol and diesel is a recommendation, it is one of the recommendations, of the Lagares report, which the government of the PP commissioned in 2014, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, set out this objective of equalizing taxation. I don't know what you're surprised about now, if you were already talking about that issue. But what did the People's Party do when it ruled against the challenges of transport mobility in Spain? They obstructed the electric car, kept the figure of the cargo manager, which was a problem to develop the electric vehicle. During your period the aid to the electric vehicle has been scarce and ran out in 24 hours, and you are also opposed to anti-pollution measures such as the Madrid City Council Centre project, which aims to reduce 40% of emissions. Doing nothing in the face of pollution is a irresponsibility that ills and kills, and continuing to sustain the current energy model dependent on fossil fuels is another irresponsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we must do it right, we must do it with dialogue and we must do it right. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u52	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the initiative presented by the People's Parliamentary Group today clearly reveals its status as a party without a project, without arguments and without alternatives. It is a party that seeks to paralyse the political life and, therefore, the social life of Spain, based on the permanent disqualification so as to discredit the legitimate government of this nation and even dedicating yourself. I now explain to you: last October 9, your group, the People's Parliamentary Group, defended in this rostrum its proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition, in which it explained its proposals for environmental taxation. You said, in short, that a tax system facilitating the achievement of a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy should be promoted, that the polluter pays principle should be improved and that new tax burdens should be created for activities that increase greenhouse gas emissions. This is what you proposed a few days ago - you, although, by the way, there is practically no one here - and you are devoting yourselves to criticizing it because you believe it is more important to create confusion to usurp the government than to support it in what you even agree on. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be you who manage your incongruities; we intend today to refute your claims and lies here. Firstly, I must make it clear that the measure announced by the Government on the future equalisation of the hydrocarbon tax for petrol and diesel is a measure to comply with the requirements that have been demanded of the Spanish State by different European bodies for failing to comply with environmental taxation. The European Community and the OECD have been advising since 2011 on this matter, to the extent that Cristóbal Montoro, the Finance Minister of the People's Party, publicly stated that there was no choice but to comply with what they had been asking us for for years. They had it planned and they were going to do it. On the other hand, we must point out that this measure, contrary to what the PP says in its own initiative, is not a collection measure, although it is a long-term deterrent measure, as it seeks to equalise the taxes paid on the polluting emissions of petrol and diesel. I'll explain. Gasoline currently has a higher tax than diesel; to be understood: it is more expensive to contaminate with gasoline than to contaminate with diesel. We in the Socialist Group believe that this fiscal imbalance is not justified in a scenario of progressive decarbonisation of the economy with which the whole House seems to agree, except when it comes to putting concrete measures on the table. Furthermore, it is not justified given that the scientific community has already demonstrated that diesel is the fuel responsible for emissions of nitrogen dioxide, ozone and particulate matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue gets worse after seven years without doing anything. According to the latest report of the European Environment Agency, premature deaths associated with air pollution in Spain are 32 000 lives a year - I repeat, 32 000 lives a year -: there are 1800 deaths from ozone, 5900 deaths from nitrogen dioxide and 25 500 deaths from microparticles. Does the PP believe that it is essential to act, as I thought a month ago, through the Climate Change Act or, as its previous president, Rajoy, thought, that it already announced that it would increase the diesel tax on autonomous financing in March of this year? We don't know what they're saying. Say it yourself, please. Tell that to the people of the big cities. Tell the Andalusians, Castellanomanchegos, Murcians or Extremeans and Extremeans that, for example, despite being surplus in clean energy production, we are directly affected by the polluting emissions produced by large cities. It affects the populations of the big cities, but it also affects the whole of southern Spain, which is the one that manufactures clean energies. This is the reality we face, without palliatives. I would also like to clarify, because of the accusations of various groups who have spoken here today, in this rostrum, that all the measures that are being announced will be made progressively; that there are targets for the year 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2050, and that they will be measures that will be consensual with society and with the sectors concerned. On 5 October, a push table for sustainable mobility was set up with the automotive sector, trade unions and employers. The climate change law is also under public debate. Measures will also be taken to protect transporters, farmers, all those who are going to be affected by this tax increase through our fair transition plan. Ladies and gentlemen, anticipating is the opposite of improvisation and that is what this government is doing, anticipating itself, giving clear signals, planning and being firm in the overall objectives to which it has committed itself. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, have already proposed to take that step at the moment, and it is up to you and only you to explain why you are now against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. In turn of fixing positions, by the Basque Parliamentary Group-EAJ-PNV, has the word Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u54	Thank you, President. We are debating here today a non-legislative proposal on the issue of diesel, tabled by the People's Group. A matter on which both the PP and Citizens have made their flag use it as a bold weapon and to take advantage of situations that may be harmful to some or some; hence, with this debate try to get all groups to position themselves on an issue that has fallen both in society and in industry. However, what is really needed in this area is a serious and rigorous analysis by all political groups, and if not, it could cause significant social, economic and environmental damage, so that the various public and private actors must act responsibly to avoid negative effects on industry and employment. Already in the expert report showing different scenarios there is talk of the need to review the green taxation under the prism that polluter pays; and in this context the new Government has expressed its willingness to review, among other things, the taxation of diesel, although of course, according to this group, not in a very correct way because of the form and contradictions that have existed between the various ministries that were somehow related to this measure. For us, any fiscal measures to be taken at the energy level must be taken in the light of the consequences that can occur both in the public and in the private sphere, and therefore take the ancillary measures to make the impact as little as possible. On the other hand, the European Commission has been pointing to Spain for its low taxation on environmental taxes, and in particular on diesel. Environmental taxes are still below the European Union and, in this sense, Members of the Group of the European People's Party, who are now flying the non-diesel flag, said - or at least went out in the press - that this issue was also on Mr Rajoy's agenda, as well as that Rajoy would also increase the diesel tax on autonomous financing. Let me also remind you that while you have been in the Government, a report on tax reform has been requested, which has already been mentioned here, the Lagares report, in 2014, which came to say that it was the Government that should increase the taxation of the litre of diesel to levels equivalent to those of the litre of petrol. It is true that diesel technology has worked to lower its emission level, although some have also lied to avoid emission limits, and the regulation is therefore more stringent in this regard. Although diesel engines have historically emitted more NOx than gasoline engines, today it can be said that a diesel car and a petrol car emit virtually the same in these terms and in particles. The problem is not so much the diesel cars, but the old diesel cars and, therefore, this reflection should also be made in order to make decisions, since Spain is the second European car manufacturer, generates direct employment and also with a large investment in R & D+i that also generates collaborations and jobs in universities, technological centres, etc. On the other hand, CO2 levels need to be reduced. In this sense, it must be said that petrol cars are less efficient in their combustion and emit more CO2, so with all the negative messages that are being given around diesel by both sides and also because the European Commission comes to restrict this fuel after the dieselgate, it seems that it is creating an alarm in society and therefore an increase in sales in petrol cars and a possible increase in CO2 emissions. But this, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is not the case now, as diesel sales, as has been said here today, have risen from 70% to almost 30% or 35% since 2012 until now, in the second quarter of this year. Therefore, this announcement is not only due to the possible increase in taxation. That is why we believe that there is no need to demagogy on this issue. As I said, what you want is for us to position ourselves in one direction or another on a reform that has not yet been implemented, that we do not know whether it is going to be done in a step-by-step way or whether it is going to be accompanied by other measures; moreover, it seems that the Government is already talking to the sector as well. Therefore, my group is not going to support this proposal, as it does not seem reasonable or serious to us to position ourselves in the face of a futureable. It will take the decision it deems appropriate when the Government brings forward this possible reform, which it will rigorously analyse, because we believe that environmental taxation, including hydrocarbon taxes, should be used as a strategic tool to address climate change, air pollution, energy transition and sustainable mobility, and that measures to that end should ensure European harmonisation to avoid the generation of inequalities and help to evolve the automotive sector and to maintain employment, through renewal plans and other measures to accelerate the introduction of alternative fuel vehicles, and all this to overcome barriers and reluctance to change. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u56	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Madam Member, do you not realize that the presentation of this initiative to renounce the increase in the diesel tax leaves you, again, in evidence? We've always caught them with the change of pace. Look, during the period in which you have governed, not only have you dedicated yourselves to dismantling environmental protection laws to promote privatization, but we are still waiting today for the climate change law and effective energy transition policies. Those are the real results. Instead of relying on a renewable energy model, its actions have been limited to perpetuating the hydrocarbon-based energy model. They have continued to grant new licences for hydrocarbon prospecting, and if they do not recall the recent veto on the Government's bill calling for the ban on oil drilling and exploitation for affecting the cetacean corridor. On the other hand, they have impeded the implementation of renewable energies through, for example, sun tax or by cutting premiums on renewable energies, which affect cogeneration plants from purines. There are many examples that really show what the model you bet is. Its objective has been another, to consolidate the dominant opposition of the interests of the major energy oligopolies, perpetuating the energy model based on hydrocarbons. The result is that today the Spanish state imports almost all of its energy consumption of gas and oil, and that its energy dependence on hydrocarbons is among the highest in Europe, almost 20 points above the European average. According to the estimates published by the Association of Renewable Energy Companies, APPA, in its study on the macroeconomic impact of renewable energy in Spain 2017, energy dependence reached 76,1 %. Now you are calling for a postponement of the increase in the diesel tax until an orderly transition of technologies takes place. What date is this going to be, what time? And what do you mean by that, that in order to advance decarbonisation we will depend on the private interests of the automotive industry? Is that what you're really saying? I'm sorry, but you've lost all credibility in that regard. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group, any will to delay the implementation of the international commitments made in the Paris climate agreement means losing the train to a new paradigm of changing the more sustainable energy and productive model, which drives us away from the big developed societies. It's just this. We're already late. You know that, whatever party was governed, our group would always have voted in favour of any courageous proposal for the elimination of fossil fuels. Keep this in mind. In fact, it's not about decarbonizing, isn't that why we bet? Well, what are we waiting for? As highlighted at the Paris climate conference, one of the main current problems that will worsen in the coming years if urgent action is not taken is the deterioration of the environment and, in particular, air pollution. It will have consequences that affect on a different scale: on the one hand, on a global scale, with the warming of the proposal as a result of emissions of greenhouse gases, such as CO2 and nitrogen oxides; and on the other, on a local level, mainly to large cities or metropolitan areas, because of the concentration of suspended solid particles, nitrogen oxide and other gases, which cause major health problems for citizens. According to the European Environment Agency, 430,000 premature deaths from air pollution occur in Europe each year. In the metropolitan area of Barcelona it is estimated that there are 3500 dead and in Spain 33 200 dead; 25 500 by suspended particles, 5900 by nitrogen dioxide, and 1800 by ozone. Really, it's a very important cause to start taking a step forward. Most of this air pollution comes from vehicles. From the set of measures that have been put on the table, we should highlight one of the instruments available to governments to directly influence the behaviour of citizens, which is green fiscal policy, an indispensable tool. In this sense, the Spanish State is one of the European States with the lowest environmental taxation, as has been recognised here. I would like to recall that the Vice-President and Economic Adviser of the Government of the Generalitat, Oriol Junqueras, today in the prison sent from behind, is responsible for the application of different instruments of green fiscal policy, some of them paralyzed, according to the more than limited possibilities that gave us a status of autonomy and a Constitutional Court dedicated to preventing any progress in the fiscal model. There is a need for a green tax reform which in the case of vehicles includes three different taxes: registration, circulation and hydrocarbon tax. We understand that it is now that we really need to penalise fossil energy and boost renewable energy in the context, precisely, of that change in energy paradigm; although we are also aware that we are at a time of energy transition and that, therefore, in that transition to renewable energy, the rates and levels of adaptation are not uniform and vary according to the economic sector. The government must go on modulating and accompanying the times without forgetting what the ultimate goal, which would be the full decarbonization of the energy model, is. This is the main cause, this is the main objective. In any case, and to conclude, we should take into account proposals from other states, such as France: the veto on petrol and diesel vehicles in 2040; the Minister of Ecology includes the measure in a plan to comply with the Paris climate agreement; the French Government will give a premium to the lowest incomes to facilitate the switch to electric vehicle, and tax equalisation between petrol and diesel. These are proposals that we should bear in mind. In our case, the Government should not only guarantee a Renovation plan for lower incomes, but should be able to accompany those sectors where the use of the vehicle is primarily in their productive activity, such as heavy-duty vehicles, public transport, agricultural vehicles, or even the car industry itself. I'm finishing up. In any case, modulating this transition on the part of the State requires great consensus, requires the commitment of all to change the paradigm and, above all, requires a great deal of generosity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Palmer Tous whether her group accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u58	No, we will finally present the GNP in its initial terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u59	Thank you very much, we'll take that into account. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in any case, in Marea, on the power of industry and the change in production patterns. [[File number 162/000308]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u60	We move on to the next item on the agenda, the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the strengthening of industry and the change of productive model. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are bringing today a non-law proposal on the empowerment of industry because the figures are there. In Spain, industry accounts for around 16% of GDP, a couple of tenths less than in 2007, but almost 4 points less than in 1997, which means that we have recovered the industrial share of GDP we had in 2007 but that we are, of course, far from the target of achieving the European Union by 2020, which puts us at 20%. Industrial activity has a significant impact on the rest of the economy and represents a very important part of innovation and productivity increases. It is the fundamental economic sector and can be the greatest guarantee of balanced and sustainable economic development. It creates and gives stability to employment and invests more in the training of workers. With all this we all agree, but the reality is that Spanish industry translates the structural weaknesses of our economy. Fiscal austerity and wage evaluation policies, which have been pursued intensively in recent years, have in no way been used to move towards a new productive model. What has caused these policies, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, is greater job insecurity and greater social inequality. On the other hand, the commitment to reducing labour costs as a central element of business competitiveness has clearly failed. The most competitive industries are characterised precisely by quality employment and decent wages. Moreover, the consumption of industrial goods - we do not say this - needs strong domestic demand, and fiscal austerity, wage devaluation and the social cuts to which we have been subjected in this country are the greatest enemies of domestic demand and, therefore, the greatest enemies of balanced economic development. What should we do? Select those economic sectors with the potential to change the model and put in place sectoral measures to enhance them, i.e. productive activities that should contribute to improving economic efficiency and productivity, ensuring environmental sustainability and also ensuring social and already, by the way, reducing the scourge of inequality that plagues this country. My group understands that it is the public sector that can best lead investments to achieve these objectives, since it is the public sector that can guarantee the necessary research and development, tools that we, from our confederal group, understand essential to enable the transition to a productive model that is less intensive in the consumption of materials and in the generation of waste, but it is also the public sector that can break the dependence on strategic sectors, such as Navantia or Airbus, of the arms industry. In this country, moreover, it is that public sector that could ensure that we get out of a devastating situation. We have no shortage of examples of how an economic crisis, coupled with an industrial crisis and the abandonment of the investment stake of industry, has consequences of a deep economic nature but above all of a deep social character. We have a society that breaks, and it doesn't break by flags. We think of Puertollano, where the closure of large companies, such as Elcogas, led to the loss of 1800 jobs and this led in five years to the fact that traditional trade also fell by 40% and in some sectors by 70%. Let us think of what Alcoa's closure in A Coruña and Avilés would mean: the loss of 1500 direct jobs, many more indirect; its closure is directly the death of the regions. It is difficult to think that without the action of the public this could be solved, this conflict could be solved; an action that we understand must go far beyond what Minister Valerio said about studying the ERE of Alcoa in depth. Minister Valerio, you should study the Spanish Constitution better, its Article 128.2, and intervene the strategic sector before it is too late. But we keep going. The reality in Andalusia strikes us very hard: we do not fall from the million unemployed, only 8% of the contracts made were in the industrial sector and, of course, we are very far from reaching 20%. In the Bay of Cádiz, Granada and Seville the aeronautics has at risk 45,000 jobs. Two recent examples: the Guadiato region in Cordoba, which is once again excluded from Plan Miner and is still owed 23 million from the previous plan, and the Jaén industrial corridor, which perfectly sums up the drama of relocation. Seven years ago the famous Plan Linares Futuro and we can summarise what has happened in those years in three headlines: five projects that are not known where they are, zero euros invested and 81,000 people who have come out of Jaén province to seek their lives because they could not keep it there. In short, the industrial policy of this country has consisted of a series of budget items that are not implemented, that are presented, that pass the following year and that are resubmitted; that, at best, when it is not a collage of money without control or subsequent audits, as we have seen with the example of the Miner funds. What does my parliamentary group propose? It sets out a number of necessary and fundamental measures to have a global reindustrialization plan, but this requires two fundamental points: deep energy planning, in addition to renewable technology, which will enable us to eliminate dependence on the outside while fulfilling our commitments to combat climate change and, on the other hand, to consider electricity supply as an essential public service, introducing transparency in the formation of the process in the energy market. But, on the other hand - and this is the fundamental reason why we cannot accept the Socialist Party's amendment - a public bank in our financial system with divisions specialised in business finance; a public bank which grants loans to finance the business fabric and to set up businesses, financing linked to conditions of stable and dignified job creation. In short, it acts as a financial lever of the State in view of the change of productive model. The best European experiences tell us that public banking cooperates with productive agents, providing them with credit. In Spain, on the contrary, we have a deeply parasitic bank that keeps the incomes of the productive sector and does not support at the most important times; a public bank that we consider so essential that, I say, we cannot accept the Socialist Party's amendment. We understand that this public bank is needed for one more reason, because we deeply reject, because it has been ineffective, the economic model of entrusting everything to subsidies to foreign companies that then go to another country. It is a kind of welcome, Mr. Marshall, where the investor arrives, puts his hand, takes the money and then goes to other countries where it is more profitable to produce. This is not the only problem, it is that it leaves us here with the remorse that companies understand that they have to lower wages even more and make jobs more precarious for companies to stay and then go again. In short, we want, as a matter of urgency, extraordinary and with a vision of the future, a global industrial recovery plan, which, above all, slows down the decline of our regions, which are dying because companies are leaving, but we understand that without energy planning, without public banking, it will not be possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Sempere. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which in this turn will also fix a position, first of all, by Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since 2000, the contribution of industry to national GDP has fallen by no less than 2.33%, and Spain has gradually increased from 18.73% to 16.4%, as a consequence of not having a specific industrial policy. Today, in view of the Minister's energy surges for the Ecological Transition, hopes for recovery not only fade, but have increased the very serious threat to the continuity of industrial sectors that maintain stable, skilled and productive employment. See, for example, examples of absolute validity, the government's energy decisions and the harmful effects of its radical ecology on electro-intensive plants such as Alcoa, the automotive sector or coal mining basins, which are the subject of lethal desertification. This initiative by Unido Podemos, preferred and preferred partners of the Sánchez government, does not solve the problems of our industry, and on top of that it makes them worse by promoting state interventionism, that is, subsidies as a formula for perpetuating a model of subsidized economy in which the incentives linked to productivity and competitiveness are set aside, with the loss of economic growth, the creation of wealth for all and the creation of employment, our top priority. Generally speaking, in one of the six points it is impossible to disagree, but a large part of this proposal is out of date and differs from the renewed industrial policy strategy of the European Union, adopted just over a year ago, although it is already known that you do not believe in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the Forum has tabled a broad replacement amendment because priority is given to measures that transform and modernise national industry to boost the economy and generate jobs and enable us to compete on equal terms with other countries. As far as energy is concerned, Mrs García Sempere, you have voted the opposite of what you say in Asturias and today you are proposing measures to ensure that Spain is made no more or less than industrial harakiri. We can't agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. We share a diagnosis with the Unite Podemos Group, and it is the need for a productive model change as a necessary condition to improve the quality of life of our people. This also means altering the European division of labour that exists, but also recognising and putting on the table that there is a Spanish division of labour. This division is bringing with it a growing worsening of territorial inequalities. That is so; you can see in capital flows, you can see in population flows, you can see in terms of GDP per capita that that is the reality. A centre and a periphery are being set up that is concentrating wealth in some areas and in others, otherwise. We understand that the measures proposed - and we agree with them - must have a vision that is not centralist or, in other words, that complements the traditional axis of wealth concentration that has existed in this country, which has mainly concentrated in three areas: Madrid, Barcelona and Bilbao. In short, we need an integral, integrative vision, so that the peripheries also have their site and are represented. Otherwise, inequalities will continue to be tearing and we will continue to suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u67	Thank you very much, President. This GNP is an omnibus proposal, it wants to touch on many issues in a way that is sometimes somewhat disconnected. We wanted to put forward amendments. It has not been possible because of a technical problem and, at the expense of a transactional solution to all these shortcomings, we are not going to support this proposal. I believe that yours, to address all the complexity, would require what has been done in Catalonia - but not because it has been done in Catalonia - which is a national pact for industry. It was done by this independenceist government, which was only thinking about the process. This government was able, with all the social partners, with the Parliament of Catalonia, to materialize a national pact for industry that the current government is developing. Therefore, in any case, we would urge this. We have a certain fundamental discrepancy. The reactivation of the industrial sector, from our point of view, does not pass exclusively or mainly through the impulse of the public sector, it has to be the private sector. The public sector will have to act in a very specific area, but we cannot rest all the reactivation of the industrial sector in the public sector, as appears to be apparent from its proposal. We do not agree with the public banking pool, we have told it repeatedly. We don't think that's necessary. In any case, there are sufficient elements in the Spanish State at the moment to solve the financing problems. And in Catalonia it has also been resolved in this area. Therefore, without being pretentious, I would advise you to take as an example what has been done in Catalonia with the national pact for industry and its six axes of work. It is a good starting point and with a certain rationality. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Mrs. García Sempere, we are discussing this non-law proposal on boosting industry and changing the productive model, and you have already seen the one you have raised. You have written the mother of all the GNP and we have spent the weekend amending it, I think almost all the groups. It speaks of a productive model in many areas - and I only have four minutes and forty-seven seconds -: finance, energy, infrastructure, investment, education, employment and research and development. For all of us there is a multiple common minimum, which is the role of the State or the public sector, and we believe that the State must ensure that the right conditions are created for which private sector and industries are developed. As for the creation of public banking, we are in favour of public banking because it can contribute to free competition against oligopolies. The public sector can be a good guarantor of free competition against oligopolies; in fact - and take it as a symptom - it is the opposition of oligopolies to public intervention that tells us that they want to prevent free competition. We therefore believe that the State is involved in the strategic sectors because it is positive, considering the sector of strategic interest that of finance, education, energy or investment, and that is what my second amendment refers to. Having said that, and referring to the order of your proposals to your GNP - with due respect and admiration that your Lordship knows you profess - we understand that the public sector cannot lead industrial recovery plans without resorting to paleomarxist approaches of famous five-year plans and plans. Those who should lead the plan are their own actors, mainly SME associations, local and sectoral self-employed people supported by employers, and public sector unions, who should analyze and decide which supply or demand policy instruments they will use, but cannot lead something they don't know; shoemaker your shoes, as is usually said in large business schools, or perhaps neologism or anglicism should be used to make it sound less pedestal. Who's going to fund the startups? Tell me how? The public banks, really? Public banks? Perhaps more specialized entities are needed, they are called business angels, which exist throughout the Western world, also in Spain, albeit less, but solidly represented. These are the ones to be heard. Let us not reinvent gunpowder; they may need new tax instruments. We can speak again with the social and sectoral partners, and for this we have specialist advisers in each community. Let's talk to stakeholders first and then figure out how we're going to help or this can get us in another nice toast to the sun. As for the third point, my first answer, the one that comes out of my soul is: really? Really? What a great idea! Help us and convince your friends the socialists and then we talk again, because I understand that they prefer not to talk to the Santander, the Caixa, the BBVA and see how they see it, or study with the European Commission whether this will be accepted in their budgets because to make a public bank they need own resources that must be committed. Look at this, please, calm down, because the idea is good. I'm going to disagree with my admired colleague Mr. Bel, because the matter is not entirely closed. We will soon be discussing public banking in the Commission and in plenary, and I understand that from your speech I count on your support for the granting of a bank card to the Institut Català de Finances, which is our public banking project. In conclusion, and in defence of the amendments tabled by Esquerra to this initiative, first of all, we have the classic Esquerra competition amendment. I do not know others, but even our park status of autonomy, organic law moreover, contemplates extensive competences, some of them exclusive, in this matter that must be respected. Secondly, relocation. The public authorities - what I am going to tell your Lordship of Alcoa - must take the appropriate measures to ensure that the investments they make and the subsidies they grant are in line with the intended purpose, demanding the return of these in case it is not so and, in any case, linking to any specific subsidy plans for the modernization of the industry. We believe that the tone that I pointed out to you of coordination with SME associations is fundamental, it is important. In Esquerra we are promoting measures such as the introduction of a progressive business system, measures to combat lateness or to prevent SMEs from paying higher prices for energy than large corporations; introduce all those measures to alleviate the fact that the mortality of these companies is much higher than that of large corporations. Therefore - and I conclude - in the line of encouraging change in the productive model we believe it is essential to focus on the growth of SMEs which, after all, represent the real productive fabric of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, as the heading says, on boosting industry and changing the productive model. What happens is that, of course, when one studies carefully the proposal of Mrs García and her group, signed by Mr Garzón - I really thought that Mr Garzón was going to come out to defend her, more than anything because the theories that include in the petitum of his proposal are basically Marxist cut, they are communists - see that it is a trap. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mrs García, I promise you that I was eager to study carefully what those measures were to relaunch the industrial sector and change the productive model. The truth is that I was strange; I thought we had managed to get the Lords of Podemos back into sanity, to enter the common sense and really to have a proposal for the industrial sector in this country. But when we read the smallum carefully, what we find is a trap. You know perfectly well that it is a trap that, as you know and as the RAE prays, it is a trap or illusion with which you deceive someone by making them see what it is not. And why are we saying this? Very simple, when one begins to evaluate the small sum of the proposal, one takes the surprise that there are a series of abstract measures, full of common places, as Mr Montero says when we talk about this type of measures, which are not concrete and more specific to an electoral programme. One reads, for example, point 4: Articulate sectoral plans to tackle industrial restructuring and relocation processes and develop skills and vocational training policies in the productive areas. Sectoral plans. That determination includes everything. We could talk about the agricultural sector, fisheries or any other element. It is very nice in a political programme, but as a concrete step towards urging a Government, the truth is that it is very little concrete. But I will tell you more, in point 5 we read: Promoting industrial design, quality and cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises to undertake industrial projects of a certain size, internationalisation for export and the opening up of new markets. I have to tell you that, logically, you are saying this without really knowing what the situation of our economic structure is, where 95% of our companies are - as you know or should know - SMEs and that, therefore, what little has been done in terms of research, development and innovation is with their efforts. Do you know how many small and medium-sized enterprises invest in research, development and innovation in this country? Less than 10,000. I do not think they do not because they do not want to, because they know that it is essential for sustainability and competitiveness, what happens is that when you talk about the profits of companies you forget that a significant part of them go to that very investment. However, I understand that you know what the export figures are and what has been the recovery of the foreign sector, which is precisely the ones that have sustained part of the recovery - light, that is - that we are having in this country. Therefore, point 5 is already being implemented in part and not with the public sector's bet. From my point of view, sustainability is the ability to have value for society. The competitiveness of our industrial sector must and can be achieved through innovation and value added, even in quality, never in price. For this we must make a policy based on research, development and innovation, and I will set an example. Carlos Barrabés, who is a technological guru, speaks that this country cannot afford to miss the fourth industrial revolution. We need to establish an investment fund in startups, entrepreneurs, in the technology sector, but not as they put it here, without concrete action. This was, from my point of view, the trapping that hid the measures in which we could agree, the steak and the potatoes, but when we look a little below we see what is really the meaning of your proposal, which is point three: creating a public banking pole in our financial system. This is the fourth time you've brought him in, Mrs. Garcia. I will quote the words of my colleague Rodrigo Gómez in this rostrum: it seems that man is the only animal who wants to stumble twice in the same stone. It's not that I can, can and you want to stumble twice on the same stone. [[Applauds]] Mr. Capdevila said they don't have a bank in Catalonia. Does the Sabadell Bank or the Box ring a bell, Mr. Capdevila? I understand that it meant that they do not have independent banking, but Catalan banking there are, important, powerful, of the most recognized in this country. Therefore, to say that there is no bank in Catalonia the truth is that it is an insult to the Caixa and to the Bank of Sabadell. In any case, I believe that what hides this non-legislative proposal is to recover public banking. I'm really telling you, I don't know if you know what the cases we've been living here with the savings boxes are, because you're talking about the bank being recovered, but it's not true, it was rescued from the savings boxes, and if you want me to tell you what exactly the people involved are. Because everyone knows the case of Mr. Rat, but I believe that José Antonio Moral Santín, a member of the United Left, has already been appointed here, and I will not tell you anything about Francisco Baquero Noriega, Workers' Commissions, Estanislao Rodríguez-Ponga Salamanca, Antonio Romero Lázaro, of the UGT; Jorge Gómez Moreno, of the PSOE; José María de la Riva, of the PSOE, and so we could continue until sixty-four who have been convicted by the Supreme Court precisely for the fraudulent use of black cards. [[applause]] That's what you really want. Mrs García, I will tell you the truth: if you want to bet on the industrial sector accept our amendment, please pay attention; if you really want us to have a competitive industrial sector based on added value, sustainable and looking to the 21st century, our amendments are the road map that you must adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Campos Arteseros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u73	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that today we are talking about industry in this House because the Socialist Party believes that it is the guarantee that there will be more quality employment, that there will be more growth in GDP, that trade balances will be better for the whole of Spain and that it will also be a focus of innovation, development and research. There are precedents. In this plenary we have already talked extensively about industry as a result of a motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Party, in which we were precisely denouncing that there was no strategy or full development of industrial policies. We share the proposal. Many have criticized, I think, the initiative fiercely. We have preferred to have it as a starting point. We have proposed to Podemos a series of amendments to complete it, to stress precisely that this 2030 strategic framework is necessary, which the Government will shortly adopt and a series of measures which you included and which we, as I say, complete. We certainly had a difference in how best to generate, guarantee, increase the financing of our industries and in general of our SMEs. I believe that you have found that there is no majority feeling in this House about the proposal that you were making, and I believe that such a measure, no matter how long it may take, would require a broad majority so that it is not a short-term measure of a specific moment, but rather that in the field of industry we try to lay the groundwork for actions and measures that are prolonged over time. Therefore, we have believed - and hence our amendment - that the ICO, always with improvements, could be a good instrument and knows that we have even put it as an option to what the different sectors and trade unions were proposing in terms of measures to improve funding. However, if you put this proposal to the vote, not on points of law, we will vote in favour of all points, except point three, concerning public banking. I have to say that the new government does believe in industry, that there has been a change. This initiative was introduced when the People's Party ruled and now there is a ministry that does industrial policy; others said that there was no need to do industrial policy and then came other PP governments that talked about industrial policy but did not execute it. This Government is clear on its road map and has already introduced changes in form and substance. In the forms it is curious that the Sectoral Conference of Industry and SMEs has not met for years when precisely some autonomous communities have full competence in industry. There have been meetings with the various sectors, the Government has met with the trade unions, the various agencies are being coordinated to implement much of what this non-law proposal called for, and above all work is being done to achieve unity on a general basis and when emergencies arise that require a strong and strong response from all administrations. There's the reaction that you've had with Alcoa, Vestas and anyone else on the agenda. Changes in the background. And it is that there is now a minister who deals with industrial policy, now there are clear objectives in terms of energy transition, Energy 4.0, increasing the weight and size of our SMEs in R & D+i and internationalisation. There is a strategy, as I say, general and also concrete actions. With regard to energy transition, I believe that the message must be clear to the industry as a whole, and especially to the car sector. The strategic agreement on cars and sustainable mobility has already been put in place precisely because we want to make the energy transition, because we believe it is the best, but we have to make that transition in a fair way, helping finance, making pacts and marking shared agendas. In short, in addition to concrete actions we have also promoted - and we will promote in the General Budgets of the State of 2019 if you stop blocking them, especially Citizens and People's Party, because Citizens have appeared here today as if you had not approved a few budgets of the PP which, by the way, cut the industrial policy of this country by 1 billion; yes, you did so by supporting the General Budgets of the State of the People's Party and voting against the socialist amendments - the gender perspective, both in terms of talent and directives and also of the working conditions of women, who in a large part and in many sectors are the protagonists of this industry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Campos. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u75	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Today we are debating a non-legislative proposal to boost our country's industry, but, Your Honor, it is late, but very late, because this has already been done with the previous People's Party government. Our industrial policy has been aimed solely and exclusively at boosting our industry. The importance of our industry being competitive and strong has been stressed, and in order to achieve this objective, strategic lines of action have been articulated that must be maintained over time and that successive governments should maintain, but that requires coordination and collaboration from all public administrations, including the European Union, and also from all the parliamentary groups that we are represented here in Congress. That's where you need that support. [[Applauds]] It has been called the fourth industrial revolution, which will bring us plenty of opportunities for our 21st century industry. It must be borne in mind that our industrial sector is the sector with the highest wages, the most qualified staff and the highest productivity. But now, the government of Mr Sánchez - who has arrived in the Moncloa and was believed to live a life of wine and roses with his wife in the Moncloa - what he has done is apostillary, as a killer, a flag to the bull, in this case to each and every sector. Every week we see how a plant falls: we saw Alcoa, A Coruña and Avilés; we saw Cemex, Almería and Baleares; we saw Vestas, in León. What else has to happen? The car industry is shaking because we have a erratic policy. Today a minister says to and tomorrow the other minister says be, and the president says to the minister that he said to. [[Applauds]] So, we got diesel, didn't we get it up? What do we do with electric cars? What do we do with diesel cars, gasoline, hybrids, until the year 2040? Are we going to stop producing those kind of cars in this country? What are we gonna do? We should sit down and talk. I agree with the Socialist Party spokesman. This is about unity, but where were you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, when the People's Party presented that pact for the industry that was made known to you? Where were you? I remember, it was at the end of May, you were trying to support the Socialist Party in a motion of censure. That's where you were, industrial policy didn't matter much, it only matters when you have to put yourself in the demonstrations behind the banners. Me too, but it must be done behind all and every worker in this country, not only when you are interested. [[Applauds]] Why aren't they with Meirama's workers just like they were with Alcoa's? Why is the Socialist Party now with the workers of As Pontes, but not with the families of Meirama? They're two power plants that are going to shut down, aren't they? But, of course, the president of the A Coruña Province, of the Socialist Party, is mayor of As Pontes, but he should be president of the A Coruña Province as a whole, not only of his mayorship. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Citizens Party, where were you also when this pact was presented by industry? I am that now, reading all the amendments that have been tabled here, I see that all of you already knew this pact and none of you wanted to support it. Why? Because he was from the People's Party. The Citizens Party at that time was also instigating this motion of censure. Oh, it was, it wasn't. We're closing down villages, now civilian guard commands, but where are we going to go, ladies and gentlemen? Reliable roadmap and clear roadmap for all parties in this House and so we can support the industry of our country as it deserves, with a national pact for industry, which already has the consensus of all the most representative unions: Alliance for Industry, the Institute of Engineering of Spain, CEOE, College of Engineers, College of Economists, Cepyme. What more consensus do you want? The only thing that needs to be done is for you to come here, to this Parliament, and for all of you to support it. That's what it takes. And, lordship of Bildu, catastrophe is what you and yours have done with the Basque Country. That is catastrophism and not what the People's Party says and brings here. Thank you so much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moraleja. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for positions by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u77	Thank you, President. Today Podemos presents us with a non-legislative proposal to encourage industry with numerous points. The truth is that with some we can agree because they are mere principles, without concrete actions, but with others not so much. Therefore, we will wait to position ourselves on this issue until we see the transactional to which we arrive. For this group the support of the administrations but also the private contribution are fundamental in the industrial development of a territory to create the right conditions for companies to invest, compete in the market and generate wealth and employment. We should therefore define an industrial development vision and promote a competitive industrial ecosystem in all its dimensions - infrastructure, science, technology, finance, labour relations, people's capacities and spaces for collaboration - but we do not believe that only in the public sphere and with trade unions. In addition, we can speak again from centrality, without taking into account the autonomous communities, which have competence in this regard. In the context of a broader economic development policy, industry certainly deserves and requires a specific boost because of its high impact on employment, technological development and the development of other sectors, and also because of its particular needs with regard to other activities, in terms of globalization, investment in intangible goods, technology, soil, professional qualifications, but, as we have said, since that public-private partnership. We believe that the model by which Spain has opted for the strategy of fiscal consolidation from the European Union, deteriorating its model of labor relations and with labour devaluation policies derived mainly from labour reform that have linked the improvement of competitiveness almost exclusively to the reduction of wages, has not been adequate or correct and certainly a change in direction. The low productivity of the Spanish economy remains a serious problem with a view to achieving sustained growth and is mainly due to insufficient capital accumulation and limited technological progress. That is why a serious industrial policy is necessary, since it is only useful when it promotes activities in which the country has a competitive advantage, so we understand that horizontal policies that help many companies of many different actors with factors that serve little for all help to advance productivity and competitiveness. Small companies, low-skilled sectors, universities or technology centres far away or with insufficient connection to business activity and a great difficulty in obtaining financing for projects based on intangible knowledge certainly make it difficult to improve R & D+i. The conditions must therefore be created to improve the system of science and innovation and, as the GNP says, to converge with Europe in public investment. But for that to happen again, there is a need for private public collaboration and much more concrete actions. We also agree that plans can be articulated to deal with restructuring processes, as well as to encourage industrial design. In this regard, let me remind you that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has already presented a GNP which has been endorsed by all political groups, because design is also a driving force behind innovation, competition and development. On the other hand, given that the cost of energy has become a cost to industry with uncompetitive prices compared to Europeans and a weak regulation favouring future investments, it would also be necessary to work on coherent and secure energy planning. Of course, what we do not agree with again is the creation of a public banking pole to which we have at least twice opposed in this House. There's already a public bank. The ICO is a public investment bank, the Fonpyme serves to finance investments abroad and there are also public venture capital funds. To all this must be added the European Investment Bank and the ERDF funds. In short, many principles are laid down, but there are no concrete proposals and we will see how the transaction stands to position us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mrs García Sempere whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u79	Yes, we accept the Compromises and the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u80	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u81	We move on to the debate on the next item on the agenda, a motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the granting of pardons to separatist leaders. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u82	Thank you, President. Today we went up to defend this motion after the question made by Mr Ignacio Prendes, Member of our party, to Mrs Delgado. And why do we go up to this rostrum and present this motion? Basically, because we don't trust a hair from the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] And you will say: Mr Rivera, how are the Citizens'!, do not trust Mr Sánchez, with how reliable he is, if he fulfills his word and is a person committed to what he always says - provided he is not in government, of course -. I rise to this rostrum because Mr.Iceta - it will ring - of the Socialist Party defended in the electoral campaign of Catalonia to grant pardons if the coup leaders were condemned. Mr Iceta, who is from the Socialist Party, said so. But is it that Mrs Teresa Cunillera, the government delegate in Catalonia appointed by Mr Sánchez, has also said that the separatist parties must be granted pardons. Mr Sánchez, who had the opportunity in this House to deny that you were going to grant pardons to a question that I myself put to him by my parliamentary group, up to four times did not answer the million's question, will you or will you not grant pardons to those who have tried to liquidate our democracy? Mr Sánchez did not answer, and he did not because he cannot and does not want to answer, we already know the answer, the answer is that you want to pardon, as proposed by Iceta, as proposed by Mrs Cunillera. Mrs Calvo said that it was perfectly legitimate to grant pardons to those who want to liquidate our democracy. Well, look, we're going up here today because it's important for the Spaniards to know if the Spanish government is going to respect Spanish justice or adulterate what Spanish justice decides; that's what we have to know here today. [[Applauds]] It is true that pardons are not new; the People's Party and the Socialist Party have granted many pardons to corrupt people, which we do not like either. But here it is not only that they are pardons to corrupt, such as those that the PSOE and the PP have historically granted, and our group clearly says no to pardons and yes to justice. In days like these, which you manipulate, bake, adulterate, denigrate justice, it is important that we vote in a legislative chamber so that neither the government nor the groups of the House are dedicated to manoeuvring judges or what the judges decide. But today we are also talking about morality, of course, because we consider the message you want to send to Spanish democracy to be immoral. For the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez to try to liquidate our democracy is not a problem, he believes that it can be pardoned. I think someone can't be president of the government if he thinks so. Do you know the difference between a statesman and an opportunist? The difference is that a statesman respects a court ruling; even if he doesn't think so, he appeals it. And instead an opportunist, like Mr Sánchez, counts only seats and if he is to be supported by the separatist leaders in exchange for pardoning them, he will. [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you an example of the difference between a statesman and an opportunist, the difference between Calvo Sotelo and Mr. Sánchez. Mr Calvo Sotelo, when the coup d'état of February 1981 came out, appealed against it in this Chamber because it seemed to him little, he did not pardon them. And I ask the Socialist Party, the Podemos and the other Members, would you have pardoned Tejero, yes or no? I answer them: we never, because the thugs are not pardoned; if they are condemned, the sentence is fulfilled. [[Applauds]] Spanish democracy suffered two coups d'état, one of them the coup of February 1981, the 23-F, a military coup that tried to liquidated our Constitution, and the coup of October 2017, which also tried to liquidated our Constitution, in this case from an autonomous parliament, declaring nothing more or less than the secession of a part of a Spanish and European territory. Do you think that a decent country can allow impunity for anyone trying to liquidate a country? Do you think that the break-up of living together in Catalonia that the separatists have caused has to go out for free? Do you really have the nostrils to tell the Catalans who have respected the law, the companies that have had to go, the Catalans who suffer harassment and destruction and the gentlemen of the UPC by throwing paint at them in their house, the judges who defend democracy, as Mrs Lastra says, who are very serious and who will be able to pardon the coups? Is that what you say, Mrs. Lastra, that you are a serious party and that you cannot vote for this? Be brave. Do the same as we would have done with Tejero, not pardon him, ask for justice. I ask the Socialist Party to rectify, not to change pardons for seats. If Mr Sánchez wants to win the elections and have a majority, he will call the elections and win the seats, not give in this case or have the seats of Esquerra Republicana and PDECAT in exchange for pardons. What do you think Mr. Iglesias has gone to prison to negotiate with Mr. Junqueras, autonomous quotas, the IRPF? But do they think we're fools or what? Mr Junqueras, Mr Iglesias and you are negotiating pardons for seats, and that is immoral. [[Applauds]] I want to commit myself here to one thing on behalf of my parliamentary group and first person. If we come to the Government of Spain, if a sentence is on the table, in this case to the separatists, we will respect the judicial sentences; if they absolve, we will respect them, but if they condemn them, they will fulfill until the last of their days, of course they will. That is our commitment, that is what Mr Sánchez cannot say, that is what the Socialist Party is going to vote against today; I hope it will rectify. You, with the red or green button, are going to tell Spain today whether you are still a constitutionalist party or whether sanchismo definitely creates a before and after. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today can be a before and a after in the history of your party. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. The Spaniards are going to know today whether you have no shame and are able to pardon the coups or whether you have shame and decency and are still on the side of the Democrats and the constitutionalists. That's what we voted for today. It is necessary to have very little shame to announce pardons, as Mr.Iceta or Mrs.Cunillera of his party have done; it is to have very little shame when there are judges working; it is to have very little shame when they are harassing judges in Catalonia. It is to have very little shame when you handle justice. Don't you respect anything now? Is moral relativity absolute in sanchism? I ask you to rectify, to return to constitutionalism and, if not, the Spaniards will know that today there is a before and after and that Mr Sánchez, if he comes to the elections, will pardon the coupsmen. From that question, from which Mr Sánchez wants to escape, no one can escape. There can be no candidate for the presidency of the Government of Spain who does not answer that question. I answered it here. No, I won't pardon, I'll respect the sentences. Mr Sánchez will accompany this question until the last day he ceases to be President of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Enough privileges, to pardon, in this case, politicians with a law that comes from 1870, anachronistic, an absurd privilege. Do you know the three reasons why people are often pardoned? Because he's a friend of the president's, which is one of the usual reasons, if you review the pardons. The second reason you're being pardoned is for knowing something or some brown from the president. The third reason is for being a partner of the president and he needs your seats, which is the current case. These are the three reasons that are often pardoned in Spain. [[Applauds]] It's over, President. We do not want pardons for being colleagues to the president, we do not want pardons for knowing the president's browns, we do not want pardons for being partners to the president. We want no one to be pardoned and sentences to be served. The self-employed are not pardoned when they are unable to pay their dues. Citizens who have to pay the IBI are not pardoned when they do not arrive at the end of the month, nor when they pay the rent, the IRPF. Why do you pardon your political partners and citizens always have to comply with the law? That's enough. The law is going to be enforced. If we rule in Spain, court sentences will be enforced. Today, you, members of the Socialist Party, have to choose between being constitutionalists and maintaining decency or not looking back in the mirror of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rivera, we agree with you on the seriousness of the events that occurred in September of last year 2017. What then happened, ladies and gentlemen, was a deliberate breakdown of the constitutional order with the intention of establishing a republic, breaking the ties that unite the Spanish nation. Faced with this challenge, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we should at least do the following. First, do not accompany attempts to delegitimize Spanish justice. Secondly, to ensure the independence of judges and their protection, including staff. Third, strengthen a certain unity in the face of the challengers, always putting into value how much it unites us in the face of what divides us. Fourthly, to denounce those tactics that are one imported by the most radical independenceists, who incorporate in these days more targets, more intimidation, more lies and new fronts of conflict. Finally, we must not reward the open breach of the constitutional order or the rule of law. Those who led the coup to the state, ladies and gentlemen, must not get any prize, no benefit and, of course, no favour treatment for it. And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, we must demand it from the Government with firmness and clarity. That is why, in order to help in some way, we have tabled a series of amendments to the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending the Law on Grace and Pardon, so that together with those convicted of crimes of political corruption or gender-based violence, as proposed by the PSOE, we cannot also pardon those convicted of crimes of rebellion, sedition, terrorism, genocide and against humanity, and that, of course, we believe that they have at least the same gravity or gravity as you, members of the Socialist Party, understand that they have crimes of political corruption and gender-based violence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in line with what we have put forward in this proposal, which we hope will be dealt with quickly, we will vote in favour of this motion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Rivera, today you have come here not to talk about the Law of Pardon, because exactly you care about the Law of Pardon. You have come here today to take advantage of the rostrum to campaign in Andalusia. You know positively that to stir Catalonia, the Catalans, the Catalans, you give electoral revenue, and you have come here to take advantage of your moments of glory in order, disregarding this House, to devote your messages to an eventual electorate in Andalusia. Moreover, you speak of a lack of reliability and come here to denounce, on the one hand, the lack of judicial independence - you say in your motion - or the politicization of justice, and at the same time violates, for example, the presumption of innocence of the independenceist leaders, today political prisoners, or attacks directly and without any compromise against the separation of powers. You stand in a sentencing court and in addition to a sentencing sentence, but this does not matter to you, because you have come here today to campaign for election because you know positively... If you are interested in the law of pardon reform as much as possible... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u87	Wait a minute, Mrs. Ciuro, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sure you know that we are in parliamentary procedure in this House, in the process of being present, to see whether the crime menu can be digested in relation to those who can or cannot be pardoned. I'm sure you know that, but you don't care much about the handling of this bill, because - as I tell you - you've come to campaign. Today, you, Lords of Citizens, make of Citizens, impose a parliamentary process of reform of the Law of Pardon, attack against the already fragile separation of powers that can remain today in a decrepit state, pretending to influence and condition the court that is aware of the matter, in addition to disrespecting and violating the presumption of innocence, which is especially demanded of elected representatives and public offices, as is the result of the 2016 Council's regulation. But nothing new under the sun. You are citizens today and, therefore, this motion has nothing more than an electoral campaign in Andalusia. We're so sorry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u90	Thank you very much, President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is submitting a motion urging the Government not to grant pardon to those who may be convicted in the case that is being brought before the Supreme Court against Catalan independent political leaders, and it is already progressing from this initial moment that the Basque Parliamentary Group will not give its support. Your motion, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is just a fictional exercise, as the minister pointed out to you during last week's inquiry, as you are taking for granted some facts that have not even occurred and all you are trying to do is to wear down the government on a matter that you inflame by overacting daily in your struggle with the People's Party and Vox, regardless of their coexistence or reduce tension. But, since you insist, the Basque Parliamentary Group will also insist, coinciding with jurists of recognized prestige and with the same former President of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, Mr Pascual Sala, that in the conduct of the accused there is no crime of rebellion or sedition and that we are not judging a coup d'état nor the accused are coups, as you proclaim daily, but that we are faced with a constitutional crisis around a national question: the unmet claim of the recognition of the national being of Catalonia, answered by the powers of the State with the use of emergency measures, from the public force and from the courts, and not from the dialogue, negotiation and agreement, and from these dusts, these muds, in which you, through this motion and other initiatives, spatter at their discretion no matter how much the rest of the dishes break. [[applause]] With regard to the institution of pardon, Lords of Citizens, let me tell you that it is not a measure of privilege but an instrument of criminal policy and of the same policy, that all contemporary constitutions recognize it and that it is also found in all Spanish constitutions from 1812 to the present, in the seven in total. Its raison d'être in the Constitution, as has already been pointed out by the doctrine and the Supreme Court itself, responds to the constitutional public interest to arbitrate mechanisms based on a decision of criminal policy to exempt the execution of sentences of final sentences, tempering the rigour of the jus puniendi in attention to humanitarian circumstances of material justice, equity - which is inspired by prudence -, of public utility, of social convenience and of reintegration, being also sometimes the pardon an instrument of politics, as is also recognized in all the countries of our environment, in order, as it is pointed out, to smooth international conflicts and to solve serious public problems that can affect the same internal coexistence, it cannot be known that the current law of pardon dates from 1870, at which time there were serious internal conflicts of coexistence; the institution of the pardon to which in no way can refer, as you do, as a break of the separation of powers, and not only for the reasons laid down by the law, but also because it is an instrument of criminal law itself capable of law. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, as I said to you, you will not count on the support of the Basque Parliamentary Group, and not only because you are ahead of events against the presumption of innocence of the accused, but because you are also trying to cautiously prevent the exercise of the constitutional reservation which, in favour of the Government, provides for the Constitution with regard to the right of grace and its essential core and Essendi ratio, which is its discretionary character in assessing the substantive requirements underlying the singularized concession, since while justice must be blind, the interests of a society never. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u92	Mr. Rivera, I've tried not to have to cross the Rubicon, but we can't take it anymore. On behalf of thousands and thousands of Republican Squerra militants shot and tortured - yes, shot and tortured - by thug criminals; on behalf of thousands of Catalan and Spanish democrats shot and tortured by thugs - and I assure you that we have tried not to cross the Rubicon - every time you call us thugs we will tell you fascist! [[rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Every time you insult thousands and thousands of democrats who have been, I repeat, killed and tortured by thugs, every time you do, we will call you a fascist, and we will start today, today, that the beast has died forty-three years. Today forty-three years ago the beast died, decrepit, old, but weeks earlier it still had the strength to have five Democrats shot, so you are a disgrace. It is a shame that underpins his whole spirit, his longing, and I am absolutely convinced - I have told you more than once - that his opinion is not shared by thousands and thousands of democratic citizens who vote for his party. You're a fascist, yes, you are. [[Applauds]] Your voters, no, and possibly the largest number of Members of your group either, but you have no right to call us coups. [[Mr Rivera Díaz and other Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: Golpists!-Several Members: Fascists!]] Fascist! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u94	Fascist!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u95	Mr. Tardà, just a moment. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to enter into dialogue or disqualification, beyond the hardness of this debate, that I am aware of how hard it can be. But please, let us respect each other, as is the case with representatives of all Spanish citizens, who are looking at us and whom I believe we owe a respect. Please, Mr. Tardà, also, lower the tone in your ratings. [[Protests.-Several Members: No, no!]] And I would ask the other Members to respect the speaker's turn. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken these words with deep sadness, because it is true that in an advanced society like ours these words should not have room. We are not coups, and I have obviously made it clear that the vast majority of the citizens who vote for Mr Rivera are convinced that they are democrats, but it cannot be called coups here, and we are now doing a democratic self-defence exercise. Mr Rivera, it is clear that political prisoners, like Basque citizens imprisoned in Altsasu, will be condemned and the penalties will be harsh, because they are now in the hands of the far right. It is evident that the far right controls the vertex, the summit of the judiciary. And you already assume that it is going to be shown that there was violence, that in addition the force was used, which is why they will be condemned, because you know perfectly well that they are now in the hands of the far right. Well, this should be your concern, to assume that you will be convicted. We will speak of amnesty, never of pardon; we will speak of absolution, never of condemnation, and we will continue to speak of self-determination. And I repeat, for us it has been very sad to have to come out here and cross the Rubicon, very sad. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Martín González has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u98	Citizens bring us to the House today a motion that, under the guise of a true legal chasm, hides a new sign of its authoritarianism. Since the motion of censure you live clinging to the rift as the only political activity, you can't do anything else. They used to be Rajoy's government crutch, and now, which can't just be that, they're just trying to blow up the possibility of having a climate of distension and dialogue in Catalonia. In the same vein, today they go a step further; they no longer just want to fire more firewood during the judicial process but also want to do so once a sentence has been handed down. You say you want to guarantee the equality of all citizens before the law and, precisely, with your motion, what you do is quite the opposite and it is easy to understand. Pardon is an exceptional measure that is the responsibility of the Government and that we all have the right to sue. Once there is a sentence, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, everyone must have the same rights, and whether or not they are pardoned according to the particular case of each person, not according to the crime committed, precisely because the gravity of the crime and the sentence does not decide it either by the Government or much less by you, even if that is what you propose. This issue is dealt with by the judges. And if you want to talk about the law of pardons, let's talk about what circumstances, what reasons should be taken into account for their granting or not; let's talk about that. We will also go in there to change many of the issues that have allowed corruption or torture to be pardoned in this country without, in our view, justification. And if I told you before that this motion is a legal sham, let me tell you now that your handling of this matter has also been a real political sham. With all sincerity, does it not embarrass you to quote from pure filling, in a meager line of your text, the macho violence when precisely they had to change the date of their demonstration against the pardons because they forgot that November 25 is precisely the Day of the fight against the macho violence? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? [[Applauds]] Albert Rivera, the self-proclaimed leader of feminism who didn't even know what the March 8 demonstration consisted of, has done it again. [[Applauds]] Perhaps, Mr. Rivera, instead of wearing medals that don't touch you, you should start respecting the feminist movement and stop using it to hide behind it your incendiary policies. And, on the other hand, I say to you that if you were so worried about pardons for those convicted of sexist violence, your concern would be the previous step, that this is the subject of this House, the legislation. When should we stop blocking the law of equal pay, for example? When is your support of our equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave law? Or when is your support for our demands to give the maximum possible budget to the municipalities to combat male-based violence? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] If they spent a tenth of their time fighting machismo instead of scrambling, at least they could say that they are helping institutions to live up to a citizenship that goes far ahead and shows that feminism and its fight against inequalities is not only the present but also the future. [[Applauds]] I hope one day you have enough eyes and realize that doing politics requires listening to citizens, to whom I applaud and to whom I do not, because if you only listen to Vox's whispers, instead of the cry of a society that wants to end the rift and wants to put an end to the judicialization of a problem that requires political solutions, you can end up marginalized and out of play, as you are already in the Catalan Parliament today. I hope one day they realize that the anger with political opponents who have already been in pre-trial detention for a year only denotes their sectarianism and closure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u99	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u100	Thus, eight out of ten people in Catalonia think that the Catalan political representatives and social leaders who are currently in pre-trial detention should be at liberty and eight out of ten we are almost six million Catalans and Catalans, lords of Citizens, almost six million. We are almost six million people who obviously do not have the same political ideas and strategies, but we are very clear that we are facing an absolute democratic anomaly and a flagrant violation of rights that must be denounced. [[Applauds]] If you consider that the views of those six million Catalans and Catalans are outside the democratic framework and the rule of law, it seems to me that those who have a problem with democracy and coexistence are you; you, and not the vast majority of Catalan citizens, who want you to stop promoting the crisis and give us once and for all a political solution to this conflict. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. We are debating a motion following an urgent inquiry in which the Citizens' Parliamentary Group intends to extract from the principle of equality before the law the consequence that there can be no zones of impunity for any political leader, but under that first point of syllogism, the second point is the really essential one. We are told that in the event of a conviction being handed down no pardon or other privilege is granted - Mr Rivera will explain to us what that is - for those who may be condemned by the separatist coup in Catalonia in September and October 2017. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they had to use the register of this House twice because they did not have the first and the second one started well because it was respectful; they spoke of 'in the event of a conviction being handed down', but they were run out of good intention and the subconscious betrayed them. They quickly pronounce the sentence, speak of facts - September and October 2017-, call it a separatist coup, put the sentence in place and want to prevent pardon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, listen to me because I have seen you loose in some legal matters. [[Applauds]] I'm going to tell you that with what you're saying, you're doing a weak favor to justice and the independence of the judiciary, the one on which your mouth is filled so much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u103	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u104	I will tell you one thing: they are the kings of parallel judgment. Do you know what the 5500 judges in this country or the seven who are going to prosecute the trial may be thinking? [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u105	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u106	What will those prosecutors think? They will say: the one that can fall on us like, so what happens in the trial, we have to change the ratings from provisional to definitive; our hair will fall off. I say one thing to you - and I speak only on behalf of my parliamentary group but you cannot avoid speaking to me as a judge either -: leave justice in peace, leave justice in peace! [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: You, you!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u108	And I will remind you of one thing that you should have studied in first law: that there cannot be a conviction without reasonable and sufficient evidentiary activity of charge, properly arrived at the oral trial. You've skipped everything, and you know why? Because they do an alpargata syllogism, they start with the principle of equality before the law and end up doing a kind of four-legged syllogism. I explain to you, they start talking about the principle of equality and I don't care where they approach it, I don't know where they will have targeted it, whether by article 9 or by article 14 of the Constitution, but I see that on both sides they fail. The doctrine of the Constitutional Court, in all its judgments, forty in 2008, tells us that the principle of equality means that, before two equal facts, equal consequences, and I ask you and I wonder, who will you be comparing what happened in Catalonia in September and October 2017 to say that the principle of equality is broken? Because I don't see it. But, well, we're on. They use these mechanisms because everything matters to them, because in the background you only want - and today I was surprised not to see him in Andalusia, because I thought he was going to be there, where he is being used forcefully - is to express to the citizenry that they are the solution to all the problems, to those of the process and to all. [[rumors]] They do not care to weaken the institutions: the council is left, the council is missing, now we punish the prosecutor's office and since it has not changed the qualifications, now we charge against the State's Law. I tell you one thing: you don't even know what a pardon is. You insult the Spanish judicial system when you say that pardon violates what justice says. No, the pardon, with constitutional consecration and with a law of 1870 - by the way, now under review - what it tells us is that it is an individual measure of a discretionary nature, is subject to procedures and the Third Chamber intervenes and sometimes declares it null and void because it has a procedure, which you skip. And the procedure of this very House is also over. Look, we have a law that introduced my group and whose consideration was a very pointed day, on February 14, 2017. We say that there will be no pardon for those who have been convicted of corruption offences, including embezzlement, and that there is no total pardon if the court does not have a favourable opinion. I ask you, Mr Rivera - don't look at the sky, that there are no questions; they're on the papers - why don't you work on that paper. The other day I was telling your fellow deskmen that they are the kings of escapism, and in that configuration you have of the new Rules of Procedure and of the operation of this House I am about to propose to the leadership of my group that we introduce an initiative, a non-law proposal, so that this House supports and asks the Citizens' Group to intervene in the papers, because, of course, things are not done here, they are done in the papers working, discussing, with the amendments. [[applause]] That's why we're going to vote for a no as a house on your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Campo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García-Tizón López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Group will vote in favour of this motion tabled by the Citizens' Group. It is true that this initiative anticipates events that have not yet occurred, such as those prosecuted by the coup d'état in Catalonia being tried and sentenced by the Supreme Court, asking for the pardon of the penalties for which they could eventually be sentenced or for the issuance of the mandatory reports to be granted. It is also true that the proposer group, unlike the party and the People's Group in trying to achieve a binding legal effect with what is intended by this motion, could have amended the proposed law submitted by the Socialist Group to amend the Pardon Act, in the sense of excluding from the right of grace those convicted of the crimes of rebellion and sedition. But he did not do so, simply submitting three style-correction amendments, and this motion and his previous question is, Mr Rivera, a mere washing-up in view of his previous lack of binding proposals. [[Applauds]] In the face of this, the People's Group has tabled twenty-one amendments to this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group, in which, among other amendments, it proposes to exclude from the right of grace those convicted of crimes of rebellion and sedition; amendments whose presentation had already been announced by the People's Group in the debate on the admission of this initiative. Mr Rivera, it is not the same thing to ask the Government, to beg the Government, to beg the Government not to pardon, which is what you do in your motion, to prohibit by law pardon in these crimes of rebellion and sedition, which is what the People's Party has done with its amendments to the bill. [[Applauds]] There is, therefore, some difference between what was done by the People's Group and the little work done by the motion's proposing group and that with a certain overperformance in this matter is coincident with the electoral period that we are living in Andalusia. In spite of all the above, and as I have already indicated at the beginning of this speech, the People's Group will vote in favour of this initiative because, in our view, there are indications more than enough in the behaviour of the Socialist Party and the Government to assume that Mr Sánchez has agreed with the perpetrators of the coup d'état in Catalonia last autumn that he will have absolute impunity, if convicted by the Supreme Court for the crimes of rebellion or sedition. The past motion of censure that made Mr Sánchez head of the executive, despite his poor parliamentary representation, was more than an agreement to evict the People's Party from the government after Gürtel's ruling. The sentence was the excuse, with the added promise to form an interim government to convene new elections in the shortest possible time, but the real reason was to make a fresh start in Spain, in exchange for appointing Mr. Sánchez as president of the government, the old pact of socialists, communists and separatists that would allow to mess with the 1978 Constitution, to propitiate the old dream of the left radicals of the return to the tortilla and to make steady progress in the independence of Euskadi and Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Thanks to this pact, the new/old communists of Podemos would advance in their desire to establish the third republic and extend in Spain their dream Bolivian model today and the separatists would make possible their right to decide in order to self-determination of Catalonia and of Euskadi. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u111	Wait a minute, Mr. García-Tizón. I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u112	To begin this process of dislocation of Spain it has already been agreed to decriminalize the offenses to the main symbols of the State, starting with the Crown, the flag and religious sentiments of most Spaniards. In this way, a new statute is announced for Catalonia that recovers the articles declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and the holding of a referendum to improve its self-government. The Generalitat of Catalonia is allowed to reopen the so-called embassies as international speakers of the sovereignist theses and the last is the attitude followed by the Executive with the authors of the process: they have been transferred to the prisons of Catalonia, under the control of the Generalitat, where they enjoy a privileged regime. Several statements have already been made by leading socialist leaders in favour of the granting of pardon. There is a permanent inaction by Mr Sánchez's Government in the face of the continuing challenges and disintegration of Catalan separatist leaders. The State Advocate, in line with the rectification of his previous position of the President of the Government and contrary to what was maintained by the prosecutor and the investigating judge, submits his statement of indictment for the crime of sedition and not rebellion. The same paralysis in the processing of its proposal for a law amending the Law on Pardon is more than sufficient to see the Socialist Group's intention not to discuss the exceptions proposed by the People's Group and the Joint Group to the granting of the right of grace in the case of conviction for the crimes of rebellion and sedition, claiming at the last meeting of the presentation the need to open irregularly a period of appearances to illustrate to the Commission the suitability and possibility of these amendments. [[Mr. Salvador]] That being the case when this period has ended, the Group of the European People's Party had warned of them in the full debate and the time that has elapsed since then has been more than enough to have proposed and carried out these last-minute appearances. Mr Sánchez, for continuing in the Moncloa, is betraying the ideals that lighted our first legal text, for that new dish of lentils is turning his back on the millions of Spaniards who want to keep our constitutional framework without ceasing to separatists or the new communists. His personal ego cannot set aside the thousands of Catalans who have cried out against a minority of sovereignists because his desire is to remain Spanish. The vast majority of Spaniards want the law to be enforced and if the perpetrators of the trial are convicted, they will serve the sentence imposed without any pardon and impunity. This change that Mr Sánchez is taking in exchange for remaining in the Presidency of the Government is wreaking havoc on the former socialist militants, who, with the 1978 Constitution, formed a genuine Social Democratic Party at the level of the best European Social Democracy and with which they today find it very difficult to recognize themselves, and rightly fear that they will end up diluting themselves in the new phylocommunist postulates of Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u113	Thank you very much, Mr García-Tizón. After the debate on all the points of this sitting, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u114	Let's start the voting. We vote first, ladies and gentlemen, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the establishment of a surcharge of solidarity to credit institutions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 79 plus 1 telematics vote, 80; against, 180 plus 1 telematics vote, 181; abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u115	It's rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AND THE GUILLAUMS AND BATALLER AND THE BEITIALARRANGOITIA, ON BABYS ROBED IN THE SPANISH STATE. [[JOINT GROUP]] [[File number 122/00275]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u116	Let us now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of Mr Guillaumes and Mr Bataller and Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde, of the Joint Group, on stolen babies in the Spanish State. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour and 346 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u117	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u118	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. First, we voted for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the rise of diesel tax. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 168 against, 175 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u119	It's rejected. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in any case, in Marea, on the power of industry and the change in production patterns. [[File number 162/000308]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u120	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the strengthening of industry and the change of productive model. The vote was taken on the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Mr. Candela]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 79 against, 172 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u121	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u122	We shall continue with the vote on the motion following an inquiry. Motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the granting of pardons to separatist leaders. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-20-CD181120.u123	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
