ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Before continuing with the agenda for the plenary session, we would like to remind today who was a member of the Constituent Courts, Mr José Luis Meilán Gil, a prominent personality in the legal and university fields. From here we would like to convey our condolences to your family and to your relatives. Rest in peace. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u2	We begin with the first item on the agenda, which relates to the amendments of the Senate. Amendments approved by the Senate to the State General Budgets Bill for 2018. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, first of all, intervenes in the position-setting round by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. The position of New Canarias cannot be other than to reiterate what we have already pointed out in the debate on the motion of censure. This budget for 2018 is sure to be improved, but it is also true that it is the best we have, and without comparison if we had to extend the 2017 budget. From the canary perspective of course there are some historical achievements that we cannot miss the opportunity to get started. That is why we will vote against the amendments that come from the Senate, although we have a doubt on the issue of thalidomide, which we are prepared to consider whether the conditions are in place. On the other hand, I have to say one thing: if there is something serious in the budget, it is that the 75% transport bonus in Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands we hope will necessarily be put into effect immediately. The damage done is absolutely infinite, and we believe that the Government will be sensitive to this tremendous concern of the canaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u4	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Coalition Canaria will support these budgets, because after twenty years the rights of the canaries to be equal to the rest of the Spanish are collected with justice. Our only concern at the moment - and I am addressing the Socialist Members, the Government and the Members of the PSOE de Canarias - is that this budget which is approved today is not left on wet paper, because in order to have employment plans, the road agreement, the tourist infrastructure agreement, agricultural aid must be signed in July by the ministers. We hope that this canarian agenda - that some Socialist Members of the Canary Islands have said that it is no longer necessary for the canarian nationalists to be implemented, because they do not need our vote, and that you are going to take care of it - is a reality; that the budgets we approve today do not become wet paper, and from tomorrow the dates are set for the month of July to film the employment and investment agreements with the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There is only half a year left to manage and take advantage of the economic resources provided by the General Budgets of the State for 2018, and for Forum and for Asturias the execution of public accounts is of crucial importance. It is therefore incomprehensible that, unlike last year, the Senate has delayed the processing of a bill with the formulation of a series of amendments that modify the good work done by the Congress of Deputies. Today, while recalling the commitment made by Pedro Sánchez in this very rostrum to implement the budgets, we value the political position that, together with the representatives of six other political parties, we completed last May. Consequently, the Forum vote will reject each and every amendment approved by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked on more than one occasion that we should prove that the budgets were approved by the government and the opposition, but I never imagined that it would be in these conditions: after a motion of censure against the PP, thanks to the vote of the PNV, that same partner that a week earlier had given support to the budgets, precisely of the PP, qualified by the PSOE as the most antisocial in the history of this country. But, well, I hope I haven't changed them, they do. We have reached an agreement with the previous Government on a number of investments and projects in Navarre, which we believe are still good, and to the extent that you have not changed this budget the only thing we ask you is responsibility, that you do not delay the investments committed, that you do not paralyze necessary projects to vertebrate Navarre with the rest of Spain, and that in some way supplant with us the indolence of the Government of Navarre and the little ambition of its leaders with the future and the progress of all the ships; a Government more interested in putting Navarre at the service of the false and unconstitutional project of national construction of Mr Urkullu. In any case, Minister, we prefer to collaborate so that the projects are pushed forward and end up not being all day monitoring the implementation of them. You can count on our help for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u10	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u11	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. I barely have a minute to tell you that our opinion on these budgets has not changed: the PP management or the PSOE will remain anti-social, they deepen policies that have led to a chronification of inequality, and they hardly pose patches on matters as important as pensions, which will remain far from dignity. We said this at the beginning of the process, supporting them also meant turning into bargaining goods what as rights they are must be respected, apart from the parliamentary majorities of the government in office. Subsequent processing has only confirmed that the PP is not reliable, since what was agreed upon when it was in the Government has subsequently attempted to change it in the Senate, even without proposing changes that are neither substantial nor significant nor positive. And that is why Euskal Herria Bildu will support only one of the PP's amendments, which is approaching to settle the historical debt with the rights of those affected by thalidomide. They should be shamed - that is to say - for denying them in the government what they support in the opposition, but we will continue to vote on the basis of the content, and in this case in order to compensate for the abandonment that has been suffered so far by those affected by thalidomide, beyond the hidden interest that the PP may have, for which he perhaps intended to place us against those affected in order not to break the bloc of the vote against his amendments, but we will not, at least, do so in this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Let us go ahead and vote in favour of the 26 million amendment to ensure and improve transport in urban areas, as well as an amendment on the return of Alicante to the world on sail. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, mainly of the PP of the Valencian Community, if you had done what we are doing today, these budgets would not be so marginal to the Valencian Community; learn a little bit. Madam Minister, good morning, Compromís arrived in this House with a very clear mandate: to fight against each and every one of the inequalities, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of the two amendments to which I referred, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we know each other very well, together we govern the main institution of change in this country, which is the Generalitat, and we do so with policies of change, with courage and loyalty. That is why, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as we know very well, we want to say to you that if the budgets for 2019 do not contemplate compensating for the financing deficit that we Valencians and Valencians suffer, if there are no fair investments to start reducing territorial inequalities or proportional deficit targets, then they do not count on us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u15	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the final stage of a budget which was a bad budget for the whole State and a bad budget for Catalonia. It is the budget of the People's and Citizens' Party, and it is the budget that the Socialist Party assumed surprisingly. In any case, Minister, you will have the responsibility to try to correct this budget. They have the opportunity to make budgetary changes, to make them with the majority of this House, and they will have our support if they are good for Catalonia and good for the Spanish state as a whole. Some of the bad budgets that have been amended in the Senate and the Senate amendments have already advanced that some of us are going to support them, because they improve the situation in Catalonia or the situation of those affected by thalidomide, who have been claiming it for a long time; in some we are going to abstain and others we are going to vote against because we find them absolutely demagogic. In any case, Minister, we only introduced in this budget an amendment which was a substantial but partial reduction from VAT to dependence from 10 to 4%. Work remains to be done on this; I hope that with the Socialist Government it will be possible. I would like to greet the representatives of CEAPs, ACRA and other entities of the whole Spanish State who have been working on this for a long time, Minister. These situations remain outstanding and, as you know, the deficits that exist in these budgets and that have existed in previous budgets in relation to Catalonia must be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u17	Thank you, President. Egun on. Revenge, as I would also say a chastise, you know that it is served on a cold plate, and the more time it takes. These are the words of the Speaker of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate at the beginning of June. The consequences of these words have been the amendments that this parliamentary group has tabled, not against the PNV, as they say, but against Basque society, included in this House, which were intended to affect EUR 35 million and which, as a result of the impromptu work of that group, have been reduced. Revenge? Punishment? For what purpose, against whom? Are these the values that as political leaders want to transfer to society? Is this your best strategy because you consider this parliamentary group a traitor for supporting the motion of censure? What does this have to do with the budget proposal? Nothing, because the People's Party knows perfectly well that nothing has to do with a budget negotiation with a motion of censure. Did the Nationalist Party commit to anything else? Not quite. You start from a false premise to justify your amendments, and it is that EAJ-PNV has never been a member of the People's Group, there has only been an agreement for the General Budgets of the State 2017 and 2018, there has been no parliamentary agreement, and EAJ-PNV has faithfully and loyally complied with the word given regarding compliance with them. If we rewind in time we would have to find out who has failed, because - let me tell you - it was you, gentlemen of the People's Group, because the amendments that you approved in the Senate came from the 2017 budget agreement, so before we cut other non-compliances we would have to revise these agreements. We have always said that minimum stability is necessary in these times that run, with numerous geopolitical tensions, both internally and internationally, and that stability is not the sole responsibility of this parliamentary group, as some want to show; stability is achieved not only through a budgetary agreement, but also through governance based on certain values, and must be demonstrated by the actions and actions that you carry out yourself, with moral authority, and not by seeking responsibility in others. Responsibility, as I have said, begins with oneself and we must also know how to read society, a society that has entered this institutional path and that has often changed the perception of what is politically reasonable or even what is desirable, a society that has paid for the broken dishes of the crisis with a lot of effort, a society that is sick of the actions of some political leaders who have used their privileged position to profit illegally, and that is what the sentences are supporting. Politicians, as representatives of society, need to have a course of action that is certainly impeccable in order to set an example, and it should not be the citizenship to which we represent who claims this exemplary course of action. It seems that sometimes for this group, which has tabled these amendments, any excuse is good to avoid facing reality and taking on the mistakes, trying to show that it is another source of its evils, and hence perhaps this type of amendments tabled against Basque society. It is a strategy to our short-term understanding, which can give you some revenue at a certain time but which in the long term leaves you out of play to the arbitrariness of what can happen and without any ability to maneuver. We understand that in politics we must act responsibly. We are in a parliamentary democracy. Let me remind you of a recent chapter in Basque politics that you may have forgotten in some statements. In 2009 the PNV won the elections to the Basque Parliament, agreeing the PP with the PSOE to form government, but our party, far from putting obstacles, continued to work and support everything that was beneficial to society. We pass the duel, we accept what happened without revenge or revenge, and we carry out a constructive and responsible opposition. I appeal to that responsibility. The amendments that have been adopted in the Senate are amendments against Basque society, and perhaps also, gentlemen of the People's Party, against their own voters and not against the Basque Nationalist Party. They are very wrong if they believe that this is so, because Amendment 5381, against Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, is against the most vulnerable people, many of them unemployed, who are trying to find new opportunities. It should not be forgotten that lack of qualification and training is one of the causes of unemployment, and that training must therefore be considered a strategic factor in promoting economic growth, competitiveness and social welfare, as well as inclusion in society. In short, do you not believe that it is a contradiction to table such amendments which go against specific programmes for the promotion of employment, when you have said that the best social policy is employment? On the other hand, we have Amendments Nos 5377 and 5380, which go against the Basque bet on renewable energies of marine origin, which allows for the testing of floating devices that capture energy from the waves, and for a new generation of floating marine wind turbines; a bet aligned with the environmental objectives pursued by Europe, with a major investment in research and development that allows to enhance synergies and promote joint actions with the business world. Is this bet also bad for society in terms of creating synergies at the domestic and international levels, and involving greater competitiveness and productivity, benefiting society as a whole and the economy in general? We therefore believe that it will be the Basque People's Party that will have to explain to Basque citizens the criterion why these investments, which were so good and necessary for Euskadi a few weeks ago, have ceased to be so. I appeal, in any case - I am finishing - to the responsibility of all the political groups represented here today so that they do not pursue this revenge against the Basque society that the People's Party intends to execute today. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u19	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. MPs and MPs, good morning to everyone. As we said at the time these budgets of the PP are unpulsed budgets of a Spain without pulse, of a black Spain from which we want to flee, of Spain from the oligarchy that occupies the high spheres of the State, which is adapting to continue generation after generation. It is an oligarchy that mortgages competitiveness, that rewards nepotism in the face of meritocracy, burying entrepreneurs and innovators under the slab of capitalism of friends, rescuing for example the bank with 77 billion euros or injecting 5 billion euros to the Castor project, certainly a failed project on the Bernabéu stage that we will pay the citizens for years. That is why the Members of the Socialist Left are going to vote against the PP amendments, except for a few that seem reasonable to us, for example those affected by thalidomide, because the real problems of the people - which you always say you defend - also matter to us. By the way, I would like to remind you that you did not vote in favour of any - I repeat, none - of the more than a thousand amendments tabled by our group. We are going to vote against, first of all, because we do not accept the necessary investments in Catalonia. We would like to recall once again that Catalonia accounts for 16% of the State's population, has 19.2% of GDP and the budgeted investments are only 13.3%; and that the Valencia Country represents 10.6% of the population, with 9.3% of GDP and the investment of 7.3%; or the Balearic Islands, with 2.3% of population, 2.57% of GDP and only 1.7% of investment. And I say budgeted because the dynamics of recent years have been budgeting and not implementing. For example, how much longer will we have to endure the citizens of the Gironine Comarques the shame of an N-II that has been haunted for years, with works half done and abandoned for a long time, and other parts that have not begun? Or how long will the mayors of the municipalities of the Costa Brava have to wait for final decisions to be made to solve the problems of the 'lifted' in the promenades? [[Applauds]] If we look at the details of some items, we see that the Ministry of Defence's amount amounts to 8 billion euros, that of Health to 77 billion euros - we are already going down a bit -; we lower much more: the departure of Education 26 billion euros, that of Unit 1400; and finally that of Culture only 838 million euros. Good metaphor of Spain that leaves us the PP with the support of Citizens! Too much investment in defense and armies, little interest in public education and ridiculous investment in culture. In short, they are budgets that punish the Catalan popular classes, which are very affected by the economic crisis, and that do not help small and medium-sized enterprises, which are those that give value to the productive economy that is neither speculative nor subsidized. These are budgets that perpetuate the fiscal expoliation of the State towards Catalonia, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs recognizes is 10 billion euros a year, and that the latest reports of the Economics Council place around 16.5 billion euros; it is that of 'you pay and keep quiet'. These budgets draw us an apathetic, grey society with no prospects for the future. It is Spain that is jealous of the policemen sent to Catalonia to stop the referendum of 1 October, to the cry of 'A for them', is Spain of Felipe VI appearing as a hooligan on 3 October giving way to the repression of the state against Catalan dissidents. I'm finishing up. Faced with all this our project is clear, and you already know it: self-determination and democratic mandate of 1 October, validated mostly in the elections of 21 December, without batons by the medium, which is the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u20	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u21	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me begin with a recognition of the victims of thalidomide, who have been waiting for sixty years for justice to be done to them. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank Mr Igea, a Member of this group who has advocated justice with thalidomide. I would also like to comment on the Member of the Republican Left. I have a fundamental difference with you, and it is that I am concerned about the capitalism of friends in the People's Party, in the Socialist Party and also in Catalonia; also in Catalonia, I am also concerned about those of three percent. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I will start with an appointment and then I will tell you who it is: I demand, Mr Rajoy, that you present the budgets and that if you cannot count on a majority to approve them I call the Spaniards to the polls so that a different majority can be built. Mr. Pedro Sánchez a little over a month ago. So if we do not approve the budgets, we will go to elections and if we bury a corrupt government, we will no longer go to elections, or how is the approach being taken by the Socialist Party? Second quote: We say no to ideological, antisocial budgets, with two parents, PP and Citizens, who have one goal: cuts for workers, women, young people, pensioners... Rivera and Rajoy turn their backs on the change. Hashtag: Without people there is no budget. Are you against people now, Minister of the Socialist Party? Are you antisocial, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, or is it that what you were actually doing before was cheating on the citizens, because your only strategy, which is the usual one in bipartisanship, is to do the opposition of the non-no, and not serve at all when you are in opposition? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Because the truth is that the budgets that Citizens approved and negotiated with the People's Party are budgets that go up exactly in all items of expenditure, except in the expenditure of interest on debt and in the expenditure on unemployment, because the economy has improved. It increases social investment by 3%, it is the most expansive budget of a decade, it directly improves the lives of 13 million people, it provides essential stability, particularly for the country that still has the most deficit in the European Union, it lowers taxes to 3 million milleurists, it includes an orange wage supplement for more than half a million young people at zero cost, because we negotiated it in Brussels to use the youth guarantee that had been throwing away both governments of bipartisanism for years. It includes an extension of one week more permits - there are five, we have managed to move from two to five in just over a year, negotiating two budgets -, it includes a thousand euros a year for parents who have children between zero and three years to be able to school them, it includes the reduction and elimination of the unjustified gap that exists in Spain between the police of the different autonomous communities and the Civil Guard, they climb all pensions to the CPI and the minimums do it twice the CPI, and, you know what's best? That the commitments to Brussels are also being fulfilled and that we are leaving the excessive deficit procedure. These are good budgets, Minister. You fooled before and now you can sing a song in your teeth to have them approved. [[Applauds]] I say that you are lucky because the reality is that with the laws that your party and the party of its partners in Podemos there are 48 billion going around the House. What is Mrs Calviño going to say when she goes to Brussels, will she explain to them that the budget in the end will amount to 5 points more of GDP of public deficit? What are we going to go to 8%, being already the country with the most deficit? Or do they prefer to adapt to the good sensible policies of Citizens and comply with the accounts, comply with the partners and also adjust in the good public policies? [[Applauds]] You can do three things: you could refuse the approach you have taken with those with those 48 billion and with the alternative budget you presented, which included 8 billion more expenditure and 6500 more tax increases. They could leave the euro, go to Brussels and say: we want to raise the deficit 5 points and leave the euro. And another alternative is to make a massive rise in taxes and, unfortunately, you still have room, ladies of the PSOE, to make a rise and, apparently, you are still as addicted to spending as you have been all your life, for the impression it gives me. I say this because you have made a number of announcements in the last few weeks, through that canned interview of President Sánchez on Spanish Television, and in the alternative budgets you have said that you were going to raise taxes. I would like you to clarify, please, when you have one minute, all those taxes that you have said are going to rise, which ones are going to rise at last, if the IRPF, if the corporation tax, if the diesel tax, if the tax on the bank, if the digital tax, if the contributions are going to rise or if they are all going to rise, Mrs Montero. [[Applauds]] There are some, Mrs Montero, who have been working for a long time to get the accounts squared, to improve public policies, to save where you can, to look where there are political bubble spaces where savings can still be made. We got it in the agreement that I negotiated and signed with you myself, which was the agreement to make a spending review, and that is being implemented thanks to Citizens with the funding to get savings in point 2 of the agreement by which Airef is eliminating duplicities. As I was saying, they would have other ways of achieving those objectives that were being pursued. One would be to eliminate these duplications, for example, the deputies. But then you would have a problem because you wouldn't know where you're going to place, for example, this gentleman from Valencia who had the chiringuito mounted there or the seven or eight gentlemen responsible for the deputies you have accused or accused. [[applause]] There would be a third alternative, and this concludes. You could make reforms to improve economic growth, to improve growth potential, but you have already said that you do not want to do anything. They do not want to make an educational reform because they dynamite the educational pact; they do not want to make a reform to modernise the labour market; of autonomous financing, which you asked for, they do not want to hear about. So why are you in the government, Mrs. Montero? [[Applauds]] The worst thing, Mrs Montero, is that, although they would like to, 80 Members of Parliament cannot make structural reforms and cannot address the main problems that this country needs to address in the long term in order to build a project for twenty years. In short, Mrs Montero, these were not anti-social budgets, they were magnificent budgets for Spanish citizens, and you are going to approve them today. I'm glad you did. I hope that you will not throw away the efforts that some of us have made to square the accounts, to achieve the deficit targets, to make good public policies and not re-fry at taxes to the middle and working class of this country. They don't have to do too many things, they don't have to think too much; they implement the work we have done others, which is the best they can do for the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u22	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a really strange situation because we are discussing the amendments that come from the Senate from some budgets that the People's Party approved when it was in government, and most of the amendments that come from the Senate are from the very party that made these budgets. It is, without a doubt, a strange and anomalous situation. That is why our group will vote against most of the amendments. There are some who are going to vote in favour, as the rest of the groups are going to do, as I have understood, for example, that which refers to those affected by thalidomide, which we believe is appropriate. But, ultimately, this debate on these budgets is already under way. In our view, these are bad budgets, so we voted against them, so I think the Socialist Party voted against them too. They are bad budgets not only because of their internal distribution, that is, because of the prioritization of expenditure under certain headings, but above all because they do not take advantage of the totality of nominal economic growth to reverse the cuts that started in 2010. And what is ultimately done is to maintain a path that seeks to diminish the weight of public space, and when I say public space we refer to issues as basic for life as health, education, pensions and social benefits. This is what happens when social spending increases below nominal growth; cake can grow but the share of public services is becoming smaller. That is the path agreed by the People's Party Government with the European Union, and that is unfortunately a path that seems that the new Government is not interested in questioning, at least for the moment. That is why I think this is also an opportunity to talk about the future, to talk about what is going to be done from now on and so that the Socialist Party can begin to give its own policy lines from now on. I believe that the Socialist Party's responses are about what it is going to do with three interrelated elements: the spending ceiling, the spending rule and the new budgets; what policy is going to be taken at each of these points, what approach it is going to take with regard to the spending ceiling and deficit targets; if it is going to question the so-called budgetary stability, which ultimately does not cease to be an ideological artifact because, as everyone knows, especially the most out-of-pocket in the economy, the deficit can be reduced through different paths, there is not only one and only that of reducing expenditure, but can also be done in another way, for example by investing in the public, or if, on the contrary, the Socialist Party is going to maintain that line. Of course that has to do with the question I asked you, Minister, a couple of Wednesdays ago, which had to do with the rule spent, how you will be able to manage it from now on. And, logically, all this is condensed into what kind of budgets the new government is going to bring in in a few months. It is clear that a Government supported by eighty-four parliamentarians is a Government that has less margin than when there is an absolute majority, but still there is margin. There is room even for overflowing these budgets that today - let's say - end their processing, there is room for overflowing it because the People's Party itself, while it was ruling, overflowed them every summer with extraordinary credits for different items, and therefore, everyone is aware that these budgets can be overflowed if they are interested. [[Rumors]] In fact, I think it is interesting because, as I said, there are different ways of reducing the deficit, of meeting reasonable deficit targets that do not mean cutting expenditure on gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u24	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u25	We can make an investment policy, a policy of encouragement, that will lead us to a richer country rather than a poorer country, with a public service of ever worse quality because there is not enough budget for it. This new government, which, I insist, is going to have to answer these questions in the coming months, has committed itself, I believe, in a correct way, to the increase, for example, in the amount of pensions as a result probably of the struggle developed by the pensioners of our country, as a result of the fight against the policy of the People's Party. But the truth is that there is a commitment on the part of this Government to raise pensions and other budget items, for example, one concerning the elimination of own tolls on motorways. All that requires money, and that's money that has to be obtained from somewhere. How is it possible to ensure consistency between the commitment to budgetary stability in the PP and Brussels modes with these commitments for new public investments which we believe are reasonable? I believe that there is only one way: it is the way to act on the income of this country and also to fight and fight with the same logic imposed by the European Union through this procedure of public cuts. And how do you get income? I believe that this government has room to play the IRPF and has room to fight a reality. All groups in this House have protested against this reality, but it has never been altered in recent years and the practical reality is that most normal people in this country pay on average IRPF taxes between 20 and 25% of the actual type, while large companies pay between 5 and 7% of the actual type. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u26	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u27	In other words, there are schemes in the IRPF and in corporation tax that make the payment of taxes in our country profoundly unequal and profoundly unfair, which violates article 31 which says that the tax system must be progressive. But it seems that in these issues, patriotic constitutionalism does not come to light as much as in other issues that we all know. [[Applauds]] However, we can also change the weight and correlation between direct and indirect taxes, knowing that a government should say that in a progressive spirit it should give preference to direct taxes on indirect taxes, contrary to what the People's Party wanted and carried out with its policies and what its citizens' partners encouraged it to do. There is an additional final element which is that of tax fraud. The efforts of the Tax Agency must be redistributed so that they do not focus on those small and medium-sized evaders alone, but rather on those places where there is greater capacity for collection. A point on this: the People's Party government was on the opposite line and even made a fiscal amnesty. But I believe that one of the ways of discouraging tax fraud is, for example, that the new government of the Socialist Party should make public the list of those who were amnestyed by the government of the People's Party and Montoro with that fiscal amnesty that the Constitutional Court later declared inappropriate. I think that's important because that's how you send a message and tell tax criminals - who are very dangerous criminals because they affect health, education and public pensions - the following: you're not only going to pay for committing a crime, but this whole country is going to know that you're a tax offender and your image will be clearly affected. [[Applauds]] In short, and I shall end with this, our group has given a number of ideas not only of this budget, but of what the Socialist Party Government is going to do by telling it that it has room and that we hope that this margin will be taken advantage of. Otherwise, it will be the same as the People's Party and the same economic policy as the People's Party, because promises remain in oblivion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u28	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago we were debating in this House the draft budgets for the year 2018, it was voted and it was approved and there was a great fuss on the bench of the People's Party. Some will still remember the cheers and applause of the then PP Members to the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, and to the former President, Mr Rajoy. Some may also remember Rutger Hauer's words in Blade Runner when he said, "I have seen things you would not believe: attack ships in flames beyond Orion." All those moments will be lost in time like tears in the sand. Here too we have seen incredible things in recent weeks, but they will not be lost as tears in the sand, but they will go into the history of Spanish parliamentarianism and serve to open a new stage of regeneration, transparency and participation of this Parliament. We have seen a party in the government besieged by cases of corruption go from euphoria to confusion within hours, after the court ruling on the Gürtel case and the triumph of a motion of censure for the dignity of Spanish democracy. We've seen a government president move from La Moncloa to Santa Pola in hours, in days. [[Rumors]] We have seen the largest self-proclaimed party in Europe looking for affiliates under the stones. We have seen the futility of being and the volatility of political power, but also the validity of our Constitution and the democratic strength of this House to change with the votes of a parliamentary majority a rotten political situation for a new time of change. And we have seen a Spain that regained hope, dignity and solidarity with the arrival of a new government, which has raised the illusion in a large majority of Spanish society. A government that was just arriving adopted a first decision, which was a banner of humanity in the face of the indifference of other countries for the situation of a ship of migrants drifting in the Mediterranean, and we were solidary, as is Spain. A government that aims to recover universal health, eliminate pharmaceutical co-ops from pensioners, work on training policies on equal terms, which so much lacks seems to make some judges, implement a plan against child poverty and raise euthanasia in this Parliament, among many other issues, a social agenda that will be a priority in the action of this government. But also a government that commits itself to the stability of public accounts, and I refer to the words of the Minister of Economy and Enterprise, Nadia Calviño: The government - I open quotes - has the absolute confidence that the public deficit will fall by 3% and Spain will emerge from the corrective arm of the Stability Pact. I close quotes. It is a firm and true commitment, without traps, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, they know that the deficit target of at least 2.2% of their budget proposals for this year was not credible, as the Socialist Group has repeatedly said. The European Commission itself estimated this to be at least 2.7%. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, after five years of economic growth with rates close to 3% of GDP, their policies of social Darwinism have left a legacy of strong social and economic inequality, high unemployment rates, social exclusion, child poverty, precarious and low-paid workers, while we have seen an increase in the number of rich and the weight of the national wealth of the most powerful. Its small, racist welfare state model compared to the average of our European Union partners, with low tax revenues and low public and social spending, has mainly harmed the most vulnerable, but they also leave public accounts with the largest fiscal deficit in the eurozone, a level of public debt close to 100 per cent of GDP and a broken social security system. I don't think they can boast of their kindness as managers of the public thing. But we are facing a new time and we are going to open the windows to a new future, work to reduce inequality, achieve more inclusive growth, reverse cuts in essential public services, improve the living conditions of retirees and public employees and give young people and all the workers in this country a future of opportunity. That is why it is important today to approve the 2018 budgets, which have to be a tool - which is not what this government would want, but it is what it is - to facilitate governability, to give an image of confidence and stability in the country and not to paralyze the Spanish as a whole. Then the PP spokesman will come to face what we said in the Commission and in plenary on the budgets and I have to tell him that we think the same thing, but the alternative of continuing with the extension of the 2017 budgets is even worse. It is important to facilitate the normal activity of the new Government with the budgets that come out of this House today and start working, as the Ministry of Finance is already doing, in the preparation of the budgets for the year 2019. We are a serious and responsible party, some spokesmen of the PP said, and we are not going to change the budgets in the Senate. Well, it's been seen that none of that is true, but neither are we surprised. What they did not do in the 2017 budget procedure has been done this year. They have amended the budgets in the Senate to stifle and mortgage the work of the new Government and, in passing, to give some of the partners with whom he had agreed this year's accounts. They are excuses of bad pay and bad loser behavior, but they are in their right to amend their accounts in the Senate and to reverse previously agreed parties in Congress, even in the spirit of political revenge. The real debate we have today in this House is not whether one amendment or another is adopted. No, that is not the final end of the debate being pursued by the PP with the Senate's amendments, because they do not take on any real commitment to implementation. What we're going to vote on today in this House is whether we're going to give the PP the pleasure of billing Congress for losing power or not, whether we're going to allow the People's Party to use the majority in the Senate for its party polluters or not, whether we're going to put a stop to the new government of dignity that emerged after the motion of censure passed by the majority of this House... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u31	... Or not. And I want to remember the commitment... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u32	Wait a minute, Mr. Lasarte. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u33	And I would like to recall the commitment of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, during the debate on the motion of censure to ensure compliance with the budgets approved in this House that were pending in the Senate. But we are against the opportunistic and artefact games of the People's Party, and that is why we will vote against the amendments that are coming to this House today from the Senate. We also take the firm commitment that the Government should meet with the groups affected by the amendments. I would like to make a special mention of the people affected by thalidomide and send a greeting from the Socialist Group to those who are accompanying us today in this House from the rostrum. Have confidence in this government: it will work with you to find a solution to something as dramatic as what you are experiencing, but a real, concrete and viable solution and not empty promises without budget allocation. Ladies and gentlemen, a new time of dignity and hope has arrived, new times, new spirit, new behaviours, new policies, seeking agreements between different in search of the general interest. I would like to conclude with a few words from the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, in the Senate, where she undertook - I open quotes - to work tirelessly for the good of Spain and all our fellow citizens, and to do so as President Sánchez has asked us, with respect, dialogue and the strongest and most sincere will of understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work from dialogue and respect for reaching agreements in this Parliament, thinking of the interest of all the Spanish and Spanish, and from the Socialist Group, let us give them our hand to work and build together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u34	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments to the 2018 State General Budgets Bill introduced in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the noise that some people are trying to make, the reality is that, except in 2017, all the budgets dealt with in democracy have been amended in the Senate. Therefore, do not see ghosts where there is only normality, the same normality as on the twenty-four previous occasions. No anomalous situation, Mr Garzón; no revenge, Mr Lasarte and Mrs PNV Group spokesman. It's just democratic normality. If this is the case - and I would say that normally - what is not understood is the opposition of some groups to adopt these amendments, amendments which do not substantially change the text adopted by this House, but do introduce some improvements which force us, at least for consistency, to vote in favour; the same consistency that has been lacking in you during these months of procedure. Doesn't these General State Budgets improve the extension of aid to the victims of thalidomide? At this moment I take this opportunity to greet on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group the representatives of Avite who accompany us in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] You have the opportunity today to see first-hand which parliamentary groups are sensitive to your drama and which turn their backs once again. Do these General State Budgets not enrich all the autonomous communities by providing them with greater funding, in order to improve collective transport in their territories? Do these General State Budgets not improve the approval of tax benefits for various events of particular public interest in Alicante, Barcelona, Huelva or Malaga? How will the deputies of the Valencian Socialist Party explain that the return to the world of Alicante 2021 is not supported, or the Andalusian deputies of the PSOE or of Podemos to the neighbours of Huelva and Malaga that the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Doñana National Park or the Plan of the Malaga Decade is not supported? The deputies of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the PSC or En Comú will explain how they will explain to Catalans who will vote against supporting the Barcelona International Jazz Festival or the Automobile in that same city? Ladies and gentlemen, all these amendments are objectively improvements to the General Budgets of the State which you refuse to approve only out of pure demagogy; nothing more than that, ladies and gentlemen. Once again they put party demagogy before the interests of the Spanish. These budgets that we are finally adopting today are good budgets and we have been repeating them for months. They are good budgets not because they have been made by the People's Party - which too - but because they will improve the lives of the Spaniards. They are good because they lower taxes on families and middle and low incomes an average of 500 euros per taxpayer, and we talk about more than three million households, according to the latest estimates of the Banco de España. They are good budgets because they increase pensions to more than 9.5 million pensioners who, when they receive the three payrolls in July, will remember that this was possible thanks to the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] Also thanks to the PP will be reduced the VAT residences of older people. And I take this opportunity to greet the representatives of Feaps and ACRA who are accompanying us today in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are good for public workers, who will see their salaries increased to about 9% in the next three years, or for the State Security Forces and Corpses, who will see how the long-awaited wage equality becomes a reality at last. They are also good for students, who will be able to see reduced to zero euros the university fees or will check how on this occasion the scholarship game is the highest in history. They are good budgets because they combine the momentum to economic growth and job creation; almost half a million new jobs will be created thanks to these budgets. Mr Lasarte, how do you get to talk about high unemployment rates if the Socialist Party has put 3.5 million workers out of work in this country? [[Applauds]] The truth is that with the efforts of the Spanish and the reforms of the People's Party we have already been able to create 2.7 million new jobs. Mr. Lasarte, how do you have the floor to say that you inherit high unemployment rates? Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are good because, in addition to combining the momentum for economic growth and job creation, they contain the highest social spending items in history, nearly EUR 200 billion, which makes these budgets, without a doubt, the most social in history. Ladies and gentlemen, last May I congratulated the then Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, for having obtained the support of up to seven political groups for these general state budgets. Today from here I would like to congratulate you again on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, because the support that these budgets had just over a month ago has been added to those of PSOE, Podemos and the other groups that on 1 June were voting in favour of the implementation of these budgets. There is no doubt that it is an achievement that Mr Montoro has managed to approve budgets with the support of the whole House. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, because these are good budgets, my group will be very vigilant for you to implement them in full, as you have committed yourselves. We'll have to be very vigilant because the truth is we don't trust you. How do you do it if you've done nothing but lie to the Spaniards so far? Mr Sánchez lied to the Spaniards when he said that these general budgets were - I say quotes - an attack on the welfare state or that Spain was already more unequal thanks to these general state budgets. He lied to them because he now owns these General State Budgets. You lied to them, Minister, Mrs Montero, when you said that they were antisocial, that they enshrined the cuts, that they were unbelievable and that Andalusia was punished. He now says that, out of responsibility, he will approve them and execute them. Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group also lied to their mayors, councillors and neighbors when they tabled more than a thousand amendments in Congress and withdrew them into the Senate. They lied to them when they told them that they would do their utmost to adopt those amendments that you said were so necessary. All lies, ladies and gentlemen, because around Mr. Sanchez everything is false. His résumé, which he has presumed for more than ten years, we all know is false. [[Applauds]] He also lied to Mr Sánchez on 1 June when he said he wanted to govern Spain to regenerate the government and the next day he appointed a tax fraudster as minister and still today he keeps another accused. The Government of Dignity is called; not, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Lies. [[Applauds]] He also lied when he said he wanted to be president of the government to call elections as soon as possible and a few days later he confessed that he would exhaust the legislature. Everything is a lie about Mr Sánchez and the Spaniards do not trust him, so they have shown each time they have been able to do so by voting in elections, because the reality is that in the ballot box the Spaniards said no to Mr Sánchez in December 2015 and it is not in June 2016. Today you have to suffer it, it is true, but you have agreed behind the back of the Spanish with extreme left-wing populists, with whom you want to break Spain and with the friends of the terrorists, even though you have pledged not to do so. He also lied, in sight he is, because you know, Mr. Sánchez knows, that only through lying can he come to power. Thank you very much, Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u36	Thank you very much. - PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT ACT 42/2007 OF 13 DECEMBER ON NATURAL PATRIMONY AND BIODIVERSITY. [[File number 122/00137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u37	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposed law amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Both in the two proposals for taking into consideration the amendment of the Natural Heritage Act... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u40	... and biodiversity, as in its subsequent processing in the General Courts, the Forum's position has been unequivocal in favour of greater legal certainty to activities related to hunting and sport fishing following the serious problems arising from the Supreme Court's ruling, which had annulled at the request of different ecological groups and associations certain points of Royal Decree 630/2013 of 2 August, approved by the Government, resulting in a breach of thousands of companies providing products and services around hunting and sport fishing, as well as ruin for many peoples and injury for hunting and fishing enthusiasts, as well as serious environmental consequences. [[The Lord]] At the conclusion of this legislative amendment here in Congress, we renew the Forum's commitment to hunters and fishermen who, together with the inhabitants of the natural environments and enclaves, are the greatest protectors and defenders of the great Spanish natural heritage. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every law must serve to establish clearly and to give homogeneous treatment to the assumptions that fall within its scope, so that the exceptions are well specified, well pointed out, and against this goes precisely the reform that we have been asked of this law. We have a text, Law 42/2007, of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, which protects nature, but what we now have, after the parliamentary process, is an attempt to denaturalize this norm and to alter above all the fixing of who and how exceptions are established. We now find that the regime of the law can be exempted by a state biodiversity commission, which, according to the law itself, is an agency that only has advisory functions, but which - I insist - will be given the possibility of exempting the entire regime of the law for social and economic reasons that do not very well clarify what they consist of. Let us not be told that this reform will serve to protect the natural environment. The natural environment is protected as it touches, spending money on general budgets, with policies decided against abandonment of the countryside, against depopulation. It is not acceptable, and the Constitutional Court has on many occasions ruled on this, that the alleged promotion of a certain good is done at the expense of harming another good. In this case, natural heritage and biodiversity do not have to pay for the deficiencies of the State to protect the environment. The 2007 law, with all its imperfections, was a milestone for the protection of biodiversity, and Compromís will not accept the regression that we are now facing. Obviously, we will vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the proposed law amending Law 42/2007, our group already said at the time that it considered it necessary to update it, since the current regulation had problems. In this sense, in the Senate Committee on Agriculture we tabled various amendments to clarify what should be understood as a naturalized species, to introduce improvements in the procedures for managing the catalogue of invasive alien species at the state level and, above all, to clarify the functioning of the catalogues of alien species that can be implemented by the autonomous communities in their own territory in this proposed new regulatory framework. In turn, and in relation to the previous competition framework, we tabled an amendment, which was approved and incorporated, which specifies that, beyond what is available in the State-wide catalogue, the autonomous communities may include in their own catalogues those decatalogated species, also those species that are affected by a suspension procedure, as well as those that consist as naturalized. To all this is added the capacity already recognized by the Autonomous Communities to supplement the prohibitions that the State provides, which would also apply in the case of suspensions for a particular species that may be agreed at the State level. In short, with the amendments introduced in this bill, the autonomous communities are given full competence to define their own criteria in this area, which, in any case, may be more restrictive than those adopted at the state level. We will therefore vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Postius. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. From the seat, I am speaking very briefly to establish my group's position, which is going to be in favour of these amendments, as was also the case when the law was dealt with here in Congress. It has been modified and I think it has been improved, as the PDECAT colleague has said, with some amendments that give the Autonomous Communities some authority in terms of cataloguing. We therefore believe that the law has been improved and, in addition, the incorporation of the Senate has corrected an error that has been made. My group will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, our parliamentary group presented to the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment an initiative to repeal environmental counter-reforms presented by the People's Party for seven years, counter-reforms that profoundly affected all environmental protection issues in the Montes Act, the Coast Act, the National Parks Act and the Environmental Assessment Act. In fact, these counter-reforms have led to and still imply deregulation of the environmental protection framework for private and lobbyist interests, interest groups and corporations. Therefore, there is a whole neoliberal concept behind the privatization and commercialization of the public environmental space. The last major environmental law that needed to be dismantled was Law 42/2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. Let us remember that the main objective of this law was to guarantee biodiversity as a value of natural wealth, acting against those invasive species that, precisely, violate that biodiversity and endanger that balance. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u49	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u50	The PP Government approves Royal Decree 630/2013 to respond to the private and sectoral interests of hunters and sports fishermen. But, before this royal decree, non-governmental entities filed an appeal and the Supreme Court issued a judgment in 2016, and that ruling does what it does is to modify the list of listed species and annuls several provisions and, above all, prevents exceptions that allowed deregulation and expansion. Now the PP presents us with this proposal to try to erase the Supreme Court's ruling. There are some points that we believe are real violations of that protection of the law. On the one hand, there is voluntary confusion about the concept of the definition of invasive species. Social, economic and political criteria, of course, are equivalent to scientific criteria. Therefore, there is a change, there is a difference between what would be the actual valuation of the species catalog. On the other hand, it is contradictory that the application of the law does not affect invasive species prior to 2007. For example, we have the case of the siluro, a species introduced in 1974 in the swamp of Mequinenza, and the siluro has meant in that area the disappearance of species and the radical transformation of what is the ecological environment of the river Ebro itself. On the other hand, this species, as it is prior to 2007, has no effect. In addition, there is a mechanism - which some colleagues have spoken of here - of exceptionality which, on the basis of vaguely specified criteria - is spoken of of the public interest of first order, of social and economic character, nothing else is pointed out - can imply the suspension of the procedure of cataloguing of a species or promote its decatalogation. This suspension leaves the environmental protection framework in a legal limbo and therefore deregulates and dismantles what would be the function of the law itself. In this regard, we believe that a new opportunity is being opened to try to recover the environmental protection framework of the different laws that we present and that have been transformed into the counter-reforms of the People's Party Government and, therefore, it is important that this reform cannot go forward because it would involve recovering a number of laws that ensure that there is a lack of environmental protection. Furthermore, I believe that in the context in which we are moving, with a whole stream of what climate change can mean and with a new stream of new environmental sensitivities, it is important to try to repeal and regain the original framework of the functions of environmental laws. That is why I am putting forward a proposal to the Socialist Party to recover laws that precisely were passed and went forward in its time. I therefore believe that this is an opportune time to recover a space again and to recover the environmental protection framework again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the groups who have come this morning to be with us to see the result of the vote and, above all, to thank all the groups for their efforts to give us information, to give us ideas, to help us and to complement our positions so that we can do even better law reform. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we are as concerned as any other parliamentary group about the harmful effects of exotic species on our natural heritage and biodiversity. It is the second cause of global biodiversity loss; one in three species is endangered. The best strategy, Mr Bataller, is not to put money; the best strategy we have to fight these species is prevention, early detection and, of course, social awareness. We started with two premises that needed to be improved, which is why this reform is necessary. The first is the existence of a lack of coordination between administrations - autonomous communities and central administration - which created legal uncertainty for the sector. The second is the need to transpose - of course, Mr Eritja - fundamental principles contained in European legislation. Indeed, the law of 2007 was a good law, but there have been improvements in European legislation that must be transposed - that is why we are in the European Union, in order to transpose - including two aspects of European Regulation 1143 of 2014, which did not include either Royal Decree 630/2013 or the Supreme Court rulings. In addition, Article 2 of the European Union Bird and Habitat Directive, which is of the highest degree, had to be included. This includes that it is not necessary to eradicate, if it is made clear that in certain areas there are species that generate social, economic and cultural benefit, but to manage and control. Mr. Eritja, they're different things, and that's what you're not understanding. Secondly, I would also like to point out the need to support our rural environment. Your ladies and gentlemen are filled with the word that we all have to support the rural environment, but some support and others do not, and if this issue is not reformed here we will be doing a major damage to a sector that generates wealth, which generates jobs. By the way, I greet the mayor of Isla Mayor, who generates 200 000 red crab work papers that can go along if we do not do this reform, always from the point of view of sustainability with the environment. Actions must be taken to enable the rural environment to be given wealth and to create jobs, but being sustainable always with the natural environment, we see this reform as necessary. We abstained at first, because we think that the law presented by the group that supported the Government was not the right formula, but then, thanks to the work, thanks to the dialogue, thanks to the negotiation, thanks to the participation, thanks to the transfer between political parties, we have reached an agreement that improves the law. It is important to understand that the negative effects of these species are important for the natural environment, but there are also positive effects in areas that have to be delimited by the autonomous communities, Mr Bataller, which have to report that before 2007 in these geographically delimited specified areas, social, economic and cultural benefits were generated. In the rest of the areas, Mr Uralde, eradication plans have to be made, but we must delimit, and to do so, equip the autonomous communities with the tools and legal framework necessary to be able to do so, an issue that resolves the reform of this law. Coordination between administrations must also be improved. Mr Bataller said that the natural council is not worth anything, but the council is made up of specialists, technicians, officials of the ministry who ensure the safety of the environment. I think it's very strong what he said. In addition, this then goes to the national council, of which the autonomous communities are also part. His lordship comes to defend his autonomous community and then does not support the question of the autonomous communities. That's the incomprehensible thing about Compromises, which are always on those sides. We must also protect the environment, which is why we have introduced definitions such as loose, unauthorized loose, intentional and unintentional introduction, zoogenetic resources for agriculture and livestock, a naturalised species, Mr Uralde. Do you know what that means? That means that we will be able to impose very serious sanctions on anyone who unauthorizedly introduces a species into an environment that is not his or her own. We are talking about sanctions, banning imports, setting deadlines for generating strategies. That is what makes a policy useful, Mr Uralde. With regard to the exceptions to Article 64ter, I have already explained them to you. These are specific areas where economic, social and cultural benefits were generated before 2007. We therefore apply European standards in this reform. What I want to say is that this is a reform that improves the efficiency of management and eradication plans, which allows the sustainability of economic activities, which supports the rural world. I understand the uncompromising position of United We can, I understand it. What I do not understand is your position, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. In their regions, in the Andalusian Autonomous Community, in Castile-La Mancha or in Aragon, they are calling for these reforms to be carried out. I can read what their advisors say in favour of reform. And you come here now to vote no. With what face will they then go to their voters in their areas to say: do we vote against your interests? I'd think so. There is the mayor of Isla Mayor, who is of the Socialist Party, and you are going to vote against your interests. Yes, socialist gentlemen. What is this, again he's not? Are we going to work for the citizens, for the improvement? Citizens will work for the improvement of the environment, for the sustainability of the environment, for the improvement of the rural environment, for creating wealth in the rural environment, because that is what they voted for. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Garaulet. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are completing this process of amending the Biodiversity Act, which also ends the process of environmental counter-reform of the People's Party, at this last stage, as we have just seen, supported by the Citizens' Group, which at the beginning of this debate maintained a contradictory position, as it usually does, between the ecological positions and the positions that are most contrary to environmental protection. Finally, we have voted in favour of the proposals of the People's Party, in favour of environmental counter-reform, a counter-reform which in all its aspects and in all the laws it has reformed has the same common denominator. The common denominator is the defence of specific economic interests against the defence of the common natural heritage. This was the case with the Coasts Act, which amended the 1989 Coasts Act to facilitate certain interests, among others to extend concessions on the coast. This was the reform of the Montes Act, which was amended to eliminate the ban on urbanisation in burnt-out areas. This was the amendment to the National Parks Act, which was amended to facilitate hunting. This was the amendment to the Environmental Impact Act, which was amended to allow fracking, and so on. As I say, in all cases there has been a common interest, and it is the defence of short-term economic interests against the protection of the common good, which is the natural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the defence of the public interest is to ensure the conservation of natural resources, not interest in the short term. Nature has value in the medium and in the long term, including the right of future generations to enjoy it as we have received it. In particular, the process of amending the Biodiversity Act is now complete. The law is only amended in one of its aspects, which is related to the problem of some invasive species. Of course, invasive species are a matter of great concern, but it seems that you do not worry too much, because there is, for example, no national strategy to deal with the problem of invasive alien species and we have many problems - we have problems with the Asian wasp, with the zebra mussel, with the silhouette - a problem that in the European Union costs EUR 12 billion a year for the fight against invasive alien species. But you don't have to go that far with the species we're talking about here. For example, in the case of the National Park of the Tables of Daimiel, this park has had to deal with the problem generated by the introduction of species for fishing such as pike, tents, percasols, etc., and this has forced to hire a service with a cost of 150 000 euros because there were no ducks in the national park, as they were competing with the overabundance of fish introduced. This is an example of the many I will put, if you give me time, throughout this explanation. This amendment to the Biodiversity Act is contrary to the scientists' view. Throughout the appearances we have had for the discussion of the amendments, there has not been a single scientist who has defended the amendment, nor a single one. One hundred percent of the scientists who have appeared have spoken against this change. There is even a manifesto of 600 scientists calling for this modification not to go forward and saying things such as, for example, that species intended to pardon the current parliamentary initiative have been scientifically proven to pose a serious threat to indigenous species, habitats or ecosystems. In addition, if new scientific knowledge does not, the law itself has mechanisms by which any citizen or organization could initiate exclusion files in the catalogue. And in addition to being unscientific, this change, from the legal point of view, is a ploy to circumvent the Supreme Court's ruling. It is therefore a clear example of a violation of the right to effective judicial protection. You try to avoid the impact of the thing judged, and with that what you are doing is violating the principle of the separation of powers. Moreover, in the face of public opinion, you have promoted this change with lies, you have said things that are false. For example, they said that hunting and fishing were prohibited under the current law. That's false, it's bluntly false, it's not true that they were forbidden... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u55	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u56	They are generating intended solutions to a problem that really does not exist. They say that their modification does not open the door to invasive alien species, and that's false, it's a lie. The amendment we are going to vote on today directly allows for the release of rainbow trout. But, I go further, in the current text of Article 65(e) it clearly states that the introduction of alloctone species is prohibited. You have changed that and in the new text you have introduced the concept - you have said, Mr Garaulet - of unauthorized release. Unauthorized release means that you are thinking of allowing release of other species and that creates serious problems. Moreover, with this amendment of the law, the scientific criterion has been charged... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. López de Uralde. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u58	You have loaded the scientific criterion to introduce as a socio-economic criterion that a species is declared invasive exotic or ceases to be. In other words, for economic interests, a species can be descaled as an invasive alien species, have or do not have brutal environmental impacts. There are things that are happening that are very worrying. Right now, for example, there is a controversy throughout the European Union over the case of Hungarian wild boars. Jails from Hungary - which appear to be larger - are being imported into Spain and are being released for hunting. If our amendments had been accepted, we, through this law, would have created a tool to prevent this activity. However, with the amendments which you have tabled and which are unfortunately to be adopted today, this activity could be authorised. You say you are in favour of the rural world. Well, wild boars are being imported from areas with African swine fever and the rural world can be loaded if African swine fever spreads throughout our country. This is the type of activities that are being defended with permissiveness for the introduction of invasive alien species. So we are obviously going to vote against it, not, as you say, for radical positions, but because that is what one hundred percent of the scientists who have passed through this House have said when they spoke about it, because that is what 600 scientists and 17 scientific institutions have said, that this change is going against biodiversity. Therefore, as I say, we are going to vote against this amendment because it has consequences: economic consequences, because it will cost a lot of money to reverse the changes that have been made; ecological consequences, because it will allow the continued release of invasive species with great impact on biodiversity; and social consequences, because this will also have negative impacts on employment. So, for all this, we will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u59	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group to set the position in the amendments that come from the Senate concerning the amendment of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act - up to six amendments. I rise to this conscious rostrum of all people who are following this Plenary with interest. I greet the collectives and mayors in the gallery today and I also greet those who follow us through the web. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the procedure for a proposal for a law which we accepted in September. Throughout this journey the Socialist Group has always maintained a constructive attitude, which has not always been easy, with an object that was very simple. We have held meetings with representatives of all the groups concerned; we have also held meetings with the Autonomous Communities to ensure that the final text could, first, guarantee the legal certainty that there was not at present; secondly, strengthen environmental protection and, thirdly, improve coordination between all the competent administrations responsible for developing and deploying this law. Why did we get here? To solve the situation of uncertainty generated by Royal Decree 630/2013, a decree drawn up with arbitrary criteria, and a sentence to this decree of the year 2016. To solve this situation, what did the People's Party do? In June last year he brought a proposal for a law, which was not admitted to the procedure, and he brought the one we are dealing with today, which was admitted to the procedure last September. We have already shown in your day that this path, the path chosen by the proposing group, was not the right path. And why did the People's Party choose this path? We were told that for the deadlines, for the urgency, for the speed with which this law had to be processed, but we have been talking about the same for over a year. They may have opted for the bill because if they had brought a bill with the mandatory reports of both the Environmental Advisory Council and the Council of State, they would not have had the favourable reports to be able to bring it. It may have seemed like a long period of processing, especially for the groups concerned, but from our point of view it would have been more important to have the reports, in order to provide a legal, social and environmental sustenance that I would have made the text that was finally published more rigorous and therefore more legal certainty. It should have been better to do things better and not to do them quickly. We have already said this on more than one occasion, Law 42/2007, on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, allowed to preserve the environment and enable management mechanisms to regulate these species in the different autonomous communities. For example - is here the mayor of Isla Mayor and knows it -, what problem is there with the red crab? It was resolved with the management plan drawn up by the Andalusian Board and approved by the competent agencies, and this is the mechanism that my party defends. We know that there is an appeal on the table, but the amendments tabled by my group resolved and legal certainty was given to the red crab. Another thing is that some people are interested in confusing, they are interested in curving or distorting, as we see every day in this House. For example, what is the problem with hunting in this country? What's wrong with people who hunt boars, who hunt rabbits, who hunt losers? There are none; there is only one species affected by hunting within the catalogue of invasive species. I believe that the strategy of confusing and distorting has very short legs; Mr Garaulet, you know that too. And then you will come out in defense of the rural environment, you who implemented the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act, the spending ceiling, which reduced in the communities that ruled health and education in rural areas. What will we be told if both Citizens and the People's Party wanted to eliminate municipalities, some with less than 5000 inhabitants, and others, even less than 20,000 inhabitants? What is that about defending the rural world? The lie has very short legs, I've told you before. Today, figures have been discussed. I am not going to go to war on figures, because all the figures that have been communicated to us during the drafting of this bill are figures of part. That is why they were necessary and why we requested the reports from the CAMA and the Council of State. I want to make one point clear. The Socialist Group, in the whole process of this law, has maintained its own position, which is nothing other than defending the common interest, because we believed - and we continue to believe - that having a balanced text, although it was a much longer and more complicated path, was the best way to end legal insecurity. And we have always sought - and here are our amendments - a position that would include above all environmental protection, incorporating mechanisms to take account of economic and social aspects, but always with a scientific basis, because we believe that there can be such coexistence, and we have reflected this in all this. I'm done. It has already been said in the rostrum: invasive species are the second cause of biodiversity loss in our country and the rest of the world. If we do not protect biodiversity, if we do not protect the natural environment, we will lose a valuable resource for ourselves and for future generations, which we enjoy especially those who live in the rural environment, as a servant who speaks to them. And I want to remind you of one thing. The Socialist Group before, now and then will always have environmental protection as one of its main priorities. My group tabled a number of agreed amendments with collectives and autonomous communities; some were adopted and incorporated into the opinion, but others declined, and that is why my group abstained in the vote on the opinion both in Congress and in the Senate. But today we do not vote on the text of that opinion, today we vote on the only six amendments that have brought alive from the Senate. We have already shown our position on these amendments on several occasions during the course of this procedure. That is why, out of consistency and because we have always defended our own position, we are going to vote against these six amendments that are coming to Congress today. Finally, I would like to ratify what has been said since the beginning of the procedure. I am referring to the fact that it was possible to maintain the 2007 law by implementing management mechanisms, as some autonomous communities had already done, and not to open the door to invasive species entering our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Palacín. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Lara Carbó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on June 20, 2017, more than a year ago, I had the honour to present on behalf of the People's Group a proposal for a law that, through the amendment of the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, provided solutions to make environmental protection compatible in the way that the Supreme Court's ruling had at its disposal, with the protection of the activity and employment of the kinegetic and fish sectors, of particular impact on the rural world. It provided legal coverage to sectors that, following the Supreme's ruling, which listed certain species that were subject to fishing or hunting as alien invaders - such as the carp, the pike, the rainbow trout, the black bass, the red crab and the rust - were in a situation not provided for in the regulations. Our proposal did not then prosper by the vote against the Socialist Group, despite the commitment to the sector of several autonomous socialist leaders, which is going to happen in today's vote, but fundamentally it did not prosper by the abstention of the Citizens Group, which changed the criterion announced shortly before the vote. This sample of indefiniteness, calculated or not, these bandits of the Citizen Group have caused enormous damage to the sector and have delayed the solution of the problem over time. [[Applauds]] On 7 November we presented the initiative again, and we did so, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, in order to fulfil our commitments to the sectors involved and, on the other hand, with the firm conviction of my parliamentary group that rational and sustainable fishing and fisheries activities bring considerable benefits, not only social and economic, but also environmental and cultural. In addition, they maintain a high commitment to the conservation of species, have deep roots in our traditions and constitute an economic sector with an important capacity to generate income and employment in the rural world; that rural world, ladies and gentlemen, which we all say we want to preserve and enhance. Our proposal does come forward this time with the votes of Citizens, PDeCAT and PNV and, today, ladies and gentlemen, a year later, it completes its parliamentary journey... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u63	Wait a minute, Mrs. De Lara. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u64	... with the vote on the Senate amendments; in fact, a single amendment correcting an error that occurred in the Commission's vote, since the rest are technical amendments. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen, recovers Article 64b, Gordian knot of the reform, on species classified as alien invaders introduced into the natural environment prior to the entry into force of the 2007 law, which is the subject of fish and kinegetic exploitation, and the release of the rainbow trout species. I would like to highlight four aspects of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen: Firstly. The aim of the proposal, as I said, is to reconcile the essential fight against invasive alien species with their exploitation for hunting and fishing in areas where, since they have been occupied since ancient times, their presence does not pose any environmental problems. Second. The proposal continues to consider that those species for which there is sufficient scientific information - I repeat, sufficient scientific information - should be catalogued, but that in those areas occupied before 2007, the year in which the first regulation took place in this field, all forms of hunting and fishing may be used for their control or eradication, all, ladies and gentlemen, and, as a mandatory requirement, the areas must be approved in advance by the Autonomous Communities. Third. Our proposal seeks to regulate in a much clearer way aquaculture activities with listed species, such as rainbow trout, the production of which is mostly intended for human consumption, referring to the regulation of the European Union, since it is a very important sector for the consumption of fresh fish in Spain, with a value of EUR 90 million. Fourth. Our proposal also indicates that, in exceptional cases duly justified for reasons of public interest, including those of a social or economic nature, the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, in which all the autonomous communities are represented, may reconsider the cataloguing of a species or lift certain prohibitions affecting a listed species, collecting, ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the European regulation, which also allows the application of a system of derogations. [[The lady]] I finish, ladies and gentlemen, with some reflections. The first would be to show my utmost respect for scientific reports - which are not scientific evidence; they are not confused, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is reports and another evidence - which have been provided in the various appearances of the Commission. There is no contempt, ladies and gentlemen, for scientific reports, as the recently appointed Minister for the Ecological Transition, Teresa Ribera, has said; none, on the contrary, of our deepest appreciation, but of the reports which they explained to us in the Commission and to those which did not explain to us in the Commission and which also exist. Also, recognition of reports indicating that combating environmental degradation in the river basin is more efficient than devoting resources to extracting exotic species from the aquatic environment... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u66	... and that hydromorphological alterations are the fundamental threat to the protection and conservation of rivers. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, respect for all the reports, those you like and those you don't like. The People's Parliamentary Group considers that eliminating the possibility of hunting and fishing for the species mentioned except in control and eradication campaigns, as proposed by the groups on the left, entails negative economic effects for rural municipalities in which these sports, tourism and leisure activities have a great economic impact and do not have any environmental impact. The People's Parliamentary Group believes that hindering commercial activities and introducing doubts about the regime of some industrial holdings using listed species for food causes uncertainty and problems in the sector and that all this should be avoided. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Group we believe that today is an important day, it is for the cinegetic and fish sectors, that they will be able to practice their activities; it is for the rural world, that they will be able to recover the economy that has been lost in these years; it is for all citizens, that they can see that the People's Party is fulfilling its commitments, and it is for all those who believe that sustainability is based on three pillars - economic, social and environmental - and for those who believe that it is essential to make environmental protection compatible with sustainable economic development. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u67	Thank you very much. ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONFERENCE OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004: - No, no, no, ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u68	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, on the election of a Member in accordance with the third item of the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress on official secrets of 11 May 2004. The Member proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández. This item will be put to the vote after the other votes scheduled for today. A vote will take place in five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u69	Statement by the Congress of Deputies on the current situation of the Roma population in Italy. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u70	Statement by the Congress of Deputies on the current situation of the Roma population in Italy. On the occasion of the close relationship between Spain and Italy, and in order to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of all human beings, without discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, religion, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, the Congress of Deputies, as the representative of the Spanish people, expresses its deep condemnation and rejection of the approach of the Italian Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, to create a census of Roma people that facilitates the expulsion from the country of those who are in an irregular situation. The Plenary of the Congress of Deputies also expresses its rejection of the Minister's textual words, which stated that 'those who are Italian, unfortunately, will have to keep them'. To this end, the Congress of Deputies stresses that such actions are not based on the legal framework of the European Union and undermine the most basic principles of liberal democracy. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you recall that statements and attitudes of this kind bring us back to the darkest periods in the recent history of the European continent. The plenary session of the Congress of Deputies also takes the opportunity to reaffirm its commitment to coexistence, to the diversity and plurality in which the political project of the European Union is intertwined, as well as to the defence, protection and promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, the Congress of Deputies cannot remain impassable and silent in the face of these kinds of statements and behaviours that attack the same pillars of our modern societies and incite hatred, including other European citizens. Since the Congress of Deputies we urge the Italian Government to give up such statements in the future and, of course, not to put them into practice. It also calls on the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, including the Parliament and the Senate of the Italian Republic, and the European Parliament to also express its condemnation of such statements by public representatives of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u71	We begin with the votes of the draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. We shall vote separately on the amendments. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Rule 64, with regard to the amendment to Senate 5382. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 165 against, 114 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u72	It's approved. Amendment to article 85, with regard to Senate amendment 5383. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 186 against, 157.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u73	It's approved. Amendment to the additional provision fifty-sixth, with regard to Senate amendment 5369. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 255 against, 82 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u74	It's approved. [[Prolonged applause]] Amendment to the additional provision seventy-second. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour 256 against 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u75	It's approved. Amendment to the additional provision nineteen-eighth, with regard to Senate amendment 5372. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 165 against, 174 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u76	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and sixty-fifth, with regard to Senate amendment 5370. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour 165 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u77	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and sixty-sixth sixth, with regard to Senate amendment 5371. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 168 against, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u78	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and sixty-seventh, with regard to Senate amendment 5373. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 169 against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u79	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and sixty-eighth, with regard to Senate amendment 5374. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 168 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u80	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and sixty-ninth, with regard to Senate amendment 5376. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 169 against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u81	It's rejected. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and seventy-seven, with regard to Senate amendment 5385. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 191 against, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u82	It's approved. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and seventy-first, with regard to Senate amendment 5478. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 182 against, 93 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u83	It's approved. Amendment to the additional provision one hundred and seventy-second, with regard to Senate amendment 5285. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 102 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u84	It's approved. Amendment to the final provision forty-first, with regard to the Senate amendment 5375. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 164 against, 175 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u85	It's rejected. Amendments to the final disposition forty-second. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 189 against, 89 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u86	They're approved. Amendment to the final provision forty-fifth bis, with regard to Senate amendment 5377. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour 168 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u87	It's rejected. Amendment to the final provision forty-fifth third, with regard to Senate amendment 5384. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 166 against, 173 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u88	It's rejected. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5287. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 230 against, 113 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u89	It's approved. Amendment to Section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 230 against 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u90	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5289. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 171 against, 110 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u91	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5290. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 231 against, 93 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u92	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5291. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 93 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u93	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5292. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 228 against, 103 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u94	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5293. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 102 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u95	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5294. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 230 against, 102 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u96	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5295. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 135 against, 197 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u97	It's rejected. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5296. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 227 against, 93 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u98	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5297. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 230 against, 110 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u99	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5298. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 230 against, 109 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u100	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5299. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 111 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u101	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to amendment 5300. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 230 against, 93 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u102	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5301. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 110 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u103	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 234 against 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u104	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5303. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 109 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u105	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5304. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 229 against, 110 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u106	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5305. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 230 against, 110 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u107	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5306. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 165 against, 110 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u108	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5307. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 162 against, 111 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u109	It's approved. Amendment to section 17, with regard to Senate amendment 5308. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 230 against, 108 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u110	It's approved. Amendment to section 18, with regard to Senate amendment 5309. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 169 against, 174 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u111	It's rejected. Amendment to section 20, with regard to Senate amendment 5377. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour 168 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u112	It's rejected. Amendment to section 20, with regard to Senate amendment 5380. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 169 against, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u113	It's rejected. Amendment to section 23, with regard to Senate amendment 5310. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 227 against, 111 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u114	It's approved. Amendment to section 23, with regard to Senate amendment 5311. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 165 against, 110 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u115	It's approved. Amendment to section 23, with regard to Senate amendment 5312. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 228 against, 110 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u116	It's approved. Amendment to section 32, with regard to Senate amendment 5381. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 169 against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u117	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT ACT 42/2007 OF 13 DECEMBER ON NATURAL PATRIMONY AND BIODIVERSITY. [[File number 122/00137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u118	We will now vote on the Senate's amendments to the proposed law amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. We shall have a separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to paragraph 6 of the single article. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 179 against 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u119	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 179 against, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u120	They're approved. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]] ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u121	New point. Election of deputies, in accordance with point 3 of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. Election of a Member in accordance with point 3 of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. [[Rumors]] Quiet. We shall proceed to the election by ballot, in accordance with Rule 205 in relation to Rule 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Member shall be elected by a three-fifths majority, that is to say, 210 votes. Each deputy will write a name on his or her ballot. I would remind you that there will be no ballot papers containing more than one name or this does not correspond to a Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The Member proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández. I would ask the Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-28-CD180628.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, has no Member been called to vote? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. The results of the voting were as follows: votes cast, 343; votes in favour, Adriana Lastra Fernández, 332; blank votes, 7; null votes, 4. Therefore, having obtained more than three-fifths of the votes of the members of the House, Adriana Lastra Fernández was elected for the purposes of the Presidency resolution of 11 May 2004. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the end of this session. The meeting rose. It was 12 noon.
