ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the Chamber the inclusion, as the last items on the agenda of today's sitting, of the debate on the opinion of the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 of the Judiciary, hereinafter referred to as the proposal for an organic law to amend Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 of the Judiciary, partial reform of the licensing and licensing system, and the request for an extension of four months from the deadline laid down by the subcommittee for the study of the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers, RETA, to issue its report. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The inclusion of reference points in the agenda was approved. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is an organic law, the first of these initiatives must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by this Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u3	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate to take into account the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the limitation of time-limits for amendments to legislative initiatives. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I acknowledge that we have had some doubts about using our quota of legislative initiatives, which is a limited quota, to propose a regulatory reform, but we have come to the conclusion, to the painful conclusion that this initiative is absolutely essential to prevent the minority formed by the People's Party and citizens from continuing to hinder the legitimate and hard work of the majority of Members of this House to improve the lives of the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] What is behind this proposal, ladies and gentlemen? In two sentences, it is about defending the most elementary democratic principle, which in our view is being violated at every meeting of the Bureau of this House; and it is about defending the rules of juice set out in our Constitution, which in our view are being violated week after week in the governing body of this house. Ladies and gentlemen, article 1 of the Spanish Constitution states that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people; article 66 states that the Spanish people are represented in the General Courts; and article 79 states that the agreements of the General Courts are adopted by the majority of its members, that is, by the majority of the 350 members of Congress in our case. That is why every time the minority that make up PP and Citizens hinders an initiative of the majority of the House, it is actually violating the Spanish Constitution and violating the democratic principle that governs it. Hence this initiative. What do we propose in particular? We are proposing that the minority that make up PP and Citizens - I insist once again - stop relying on the anti-democratic instrument of blocking the legislative production of this House on the basis of the successive, endless, arbitrary and partisan enlargement within the deadlines of enlargement of amendments. How do we want to do that? Setting up a regulatory reform in such a way that after the first fifteen-day period required to amend the laws, any parliamentary group may request two more extensions, but from that time any further extension of amendments must be endorsed by two parliamentary groups... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u5	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u6	... of all Members representing at least the absolute majority of this House. This will ensure that any enlargement of amendments actually responds to the will, to the interest of the majority of the Spaniards represented here, and thus prevent a minority, PP and Citizens, from blocking legislative activity in this House. It is nothing new, this has already been applied before in this House: under the presidency of Mr Posada, under the presidency of Mr Bono, but this Bureau which now governs us has refused to apply such a criterion, so we are proposing a regulatory reform in this respect. We say and reiterate that the PP-Citizens minority in the Bureau is violating the democratic principle. Why? Because in democratic and constitutional parliamentaryism parliamentary bureaux have merely instrumental and merely arbitral functions, they have no political functions. Its mission is to qualify the writings, its mission is to order parliamentary activity, its mission is to work to promote effective work in turn by Members of Parliament. In no case in democratic and constitutional parliamentaryism can the bureaux make political decisions or block Parliament's activity with partisan criteria, let alone face the plenary majority to which they owe them. By doing so they fail, I insist, to comply with the Constitution and to comply with the democratic principle that governs it. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we have more than forty legislative initiatives blocked in the process of amendments to the whole and to those articulated by the PP-Citizens minority. The law on the time limits for judicial investigation of corruption cases was taken into consideration, ladies and gentlemen, in May 2017 and has more than fifty extensions. The law that seeks to force companies to register the daily hours of entry and exit of each worker, in order to avoid abuses, was taken into consideration in October 2017 and has thirty-six extensions. The law that seeks to raise the minimum wage was taken into consideration even before, in November 2016, and has sixty-seven extensions. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws were taken into consideration by a large majority, 206 against 132 votes and 164 against 137. In the case of daily registration, 136 votes in favour and none against. But who do you think you are to block the legislative activity that supports most of the Spanish representatives in this House? But what right do you think you have to prevent the Spanish from benefiting from these laws? [[Applauds]] You have no legal, parliamentary, political or moral right to do so, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, you have a special fixation on the reform that we have put forward in the Budget Stability Act, which must give rise to the submission of a draft budget, as established as an unequivocal commitment to our Spanish Constitution. The reform of the Budget Stability Act was taken into consideration by the plenary of this House on 18 September, with 181 votes in favour and 164 against, and since then it has been blocked in this house. First, PP-Citizens blocked the urgent processing of the law, although since 1 October we should have presented a draft budget here, in the light of what is provided for in the Constitution. They then blocked the single reading procedure, flagrantly violating Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, which places that decision in the plenary of the House. They then blocked the alternative treatment of this reform through the Committee on Justice, violating the forty-year precedent of democracy in the disapproval at the table of the Committee on Justice, and today they have again extended the deadline for tabling amendments to the wording of this bill, although the amendment could only affect the only article of the initiative that the Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled. I will tell you something about this, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, with this obstacle you are not acting against the Socialist Government or the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you are acting against the rights and interests of the majority of the Spanish and Spanish people. [[Applauds]] You are acting against the interest of the poor workers in this country who need to raise the minimum wage. You act against the interest of pensioners who need to end the pharmaceutical copayment. You act against the interest of the long-term unemployed who need to recover the allowance for older than fifty-two years. You are acting against them and you have no right. Of course, we understand that you take care of the quality of the legislative process, and that you take care, for example, of the homogeneity between the laws and their amendments, but what we do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, is that your sensitivity to the quality of the legislative process and to the homogeneity between the laws and the amendments that amend the laws only arises when the Socialist Government tries to process a draft budget, only at that time, so we must conclude that you are not interested in the quality of the legislative process or the regulation or the Constitution, what you are interested in is to stop the draft budget of the Socialist Government, which wants to raise the minimum wage, which wants to recover the subsidy for more than fifty-two years, and which wants to improve the lives of citizens. They will now argue that it takes prudence, prudential time to amend some legislative initiatives; three, four, five or six extensions is prudence, sixty extensions is abuse, ladies and gentlemen. They'll tell us we're doing it too. In a few cases, limited and always justified, where there is a judgement of the Constitutional Court pending, e.g. in relation to the reviewable permanent prison, or where there is a bill in process in relation to the Lomce. They will tell us that the work in the Commissions must be avoided, but that was before, when the People's Party Government and the People's Parliamentary Group could not reach agreements in this House. In the last two weeks we have put forward six laws in the paper and in the Commission; there is no deadlock now, because there is now dialogue and there is the capacity to bring forward laws. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - I am finishing now - Mr Rivera referred the other day to the President of the Government asking him to take his departures from justice. I am not going to talk about Mr Rivera's sails because sails have the animals, and I want to be more respectful, but I am going to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, to stop adding your votes to those of the People's Party to the Bureau of Congress in order to prevent the legitimate majority of this House from continuing to work for the benefit of the Spaniards, if you want to have any credit as an organization working for democratic regeneration in this country. [[applause]] And I'm also going to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party for something. I will not call you coups, as you have done with the President of the Government, because we have regard for that term, and above all for the pain and suffering that that term and the reality that it entails have generated in the convulsive history of our country, but we are going to ask you for some things. We will ask you to abide by the rules of the game of the Constitution in order to have some credit in order to ask the same from other interlocutors. We are going to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, to say the motion of censure at once, and we are going to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, to stop obstructing the legitimate work of a legitimate government which has obtained the legitimate majority of this legitimate House. [[applause]] Could you guys just say the motion of censure at once, please? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and of the Citizens, now together, we will ask you not to let us fall into the paradox of hindering in turn the processing of this initiative of law, we will ask you to allow the rapid, urgent processing of this regulatory reform, because it is urgent in our view to recover the application of the democratic principle in the operation of this House, in which you have deposited your best hopes millions of Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary filibusterism has many ways of manifesting itself, and one of them is indeed what is envisaged in the proposal for a law now brought to us by the Socialist Group, a filibusterism which has also affected Compromís. Look, whoever speaks to you had the opportunity to defend here, in this rostrum, a proposal for a law on the reform of the Criminal Code to ensure the possibility of illegalization of political parties with corrupt plots, and that proposal for a law was adopted, was taken into consideration by 193 votes, and has been waiting for more than a year for the deadline for amendments to be unlocked. Indeed, Mr Simancas, an abuse of this and many other things. What concerns us, however, is the political aspect of this issue. All this comes, and we agree with you, because so far there is a right in this House which does not have an absolute majority in the plenary, but which does, because of the circumstances we know, in the Bureau, which has been bunkered and is trying to put sticks on the wheels of all the attempts at progress we are making. And this, which is very important, is what we have to prevent it from continuing. At the time, when the legislature began, there was a lack of careful progressive leadership so that this would not have happened. Unfortunately at the time they were thinking about other things, it seems that more important, and those who were in the game placed their pieces where they were supposed to place them. But now is not the time to lament, but to seek a solution. We will support the consideration of this proposal, but I tell you that we will amend your article, because it does not convince us of the reference you make to the need for a minimum of two groups representing the absolute majority to maintain the extension. With the current correlation of forces in this House, it is very difficult for two groups alone to achieve an absolute majority, unless they are the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We would not like this reform to open the door to a re-edition of bipartisanism, for which Mr Casado - now absent - has been constantly pleading, and to which you seem to have entered many times, as when this morning in the Bureau you have denied the request made by the members of this House, the intergroup Solidarity with the Sahara, to have a place where to do an act with fellow Members of Parliaments of Europe and autonomics, a negative thing, an act of censorship, in which you have also participated. When we talk about important issues affecting the State, it often seems that bipartisanism is re-emerging. As I say, we will vote in favour of the inclusion, but in our amendments we will propose that a minimum of three or more groups representing an absolute majority be required. Otherwise, we won't support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u9	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u10	Thank you very much, President. We are debating the consideration of a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House with regard to the limitation of time limits for amendments to legislative initiatives, in order to avoid blockages in the processing of projects and proposals. These are blockades that have been carried out through decisions of the Bureau, granting successive extensions of the deadline for amendments, provided that this was agreed by a majority of votes in the Bureau. This has often led to the halting and blocking of legislative initiatives that were not of interest to certain alliances of obstruction and obstruction, which are also of variable geometry: sometimes members of groups that support the Government; sometimes members of groups that do not support the Government; and sometimes of mixed composition. In principle, the issue we are discussing could no longer be discussed if those votes in the Bureau which agreed to extend the deadline for amendments represented the majority of Members. The debate is taking place because on many occasions the blockages to initiatives are the result of a majority of votes in the Bureau which does not reflect the majority of the House. To this situation comes the initiative that we are now considering, and to which the Basque Parliamentary Group will support. It is intended to put an end to a legal persuasion - thus described - which causes certain initiatives, which are annoying to certain parliamentary groups for various reasons, depending on their timing and content, not to be dealt with, condemning them to political ostracism, as well as to parliamentary groups who would like to see the whole legislative transit carried out legitimately, in order to be able to express political pluralism, to attend the manifestation and formation of the popular will, and to be an instrument for political participation, as a representation freely elected by the citizenry. It is therefore urgent to reform our Rules of Procedure in order to put an end to this practice which we consider to be in violation of the essence of parliamentaryism, and which is not just a theoretical pruritus, but which has been repeatedly manifested in this XII Legislature. There are initiatives that sleep the dream of the righteous. As an example, I will tell you what has happened to some of the initiatives of our parliamentary group. In the proposal for an organic law on the reform of the Law on Citizen Security, the time limit for amendments was extended thirty times; the proposal for a law on the political control of the Courts to the Government in office eighteen times; the proposal for an organic law on the reform of the Constitutional Court sixty-four times; the proposal for a law on the reform of official secrets forty-two times; the proposal for a reform of the Organic Law on the Criminal Code thirty-seven times; and that is just a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we must put an end to this situation, which must be said all the time, we do not know how it has been achieved, because the current regulation is clear: the period of amendments to legislative initiatives is up to fifteen days, extendable by both the deadline and reduceable to half; and in exceptional cases the Bureau may not abide by this rule of enlargement or reduction. However, when the Bureau extends the deadline for amendments beyond those limits, it does not argue or give any reason why an initiative has been taken to make it exceptional for the purposes indicated, except as implied by the fact that it has been adopted and decided by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view it cannot be the exceptional assumption that the Rules of Procedure call for a majority, since this is the general rule for adopting agreements in this House, a procedural rule which does not contain any explanation of the grounds for a decision. They are decisions based solely on will, but which do not respond to an application in specific cases of the indeterminate legal concept contained in the expression 'in exceptional cases', since if it were detected by the legal operator, the Bureau in this case, the enabling assumption should motivate in each case the use of the prerogative. The initiative we are discussing proposes to put an end to these indeterminate legal concepts, by clearly regulating the criteria to be taken into account for the extension of the amendment deadlines; for the first two, if requested by a parliamentary group; for the next two, if requested by two or more parliamentary groups, representing an absolute majority of members of the House. There are no longer indeterminate legal concepts that require its application to be motivated; only objective criteria that can be easily proved, and which also respond to a criterion more in line with the function of representation of citizens, which is the primary function of this Congress, and thus turn to criteria prevailing in past legislatures, but which should now be raised to the normative rank, since the misuse of the Bureau's powers, contained in Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure, has not been properly applied to our judgment. Finally, Madam President, we hope that what is proposed today, and if it is taken into account, will not fall itself into the fast-paced sands of the extensions of the amendment deadlines which it wants to abolish. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour, even if we see that we could enter into a surrealistic scenario; that is, that this parliamentary initiative is admitted today, and that then, if the People's Party and Citizens do not change their course, this parliamentary initiative admitted by the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies could sleep months and months without us being able to wake it up. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be a bubble what Pablo Casado once said, or who is said to say that he would do everything possible to prevent the interprofessional minimum wage from reaching EUR 900. It may have been a bubble, but what we do know, for example, is that an initiative accepted by this Parliament to increase the inter-branch minimum wage has been extended sixty-eight times. All this in the name of the People's Party's need to reverse the regressive policies it coined throughout its mandate. Check, suspension of the Lomce, amendment of the Constitutional Court, amendment of the Criminal Code, amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, recovery of universal justice, criminal repression of the illegal financing of political parties, amendment of the regulations to regulate lobbies or to enforce parliamentary mandates, etc., etc. We are talking about dozens and dozens of bills that have not completed the year for more than thirty extensions. The list is very long, and there are very important issues, such as the nullity of the judgments of the franchising courts, the regulation of academic practices or the modification of the criteria for applying the expenditure rule. In short, we are talking about a real boycott, of derailing the processing of the most progressive laws. All this using the majority they have in the Bureau, a certainly illegitimate legal practice, which I must say had also been used by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in other times. I would like to remind you - because sometimes it is worth remembering - of a bill that came to this Parliament from the Parliament of Catalonia, which intended to create a fund to rescue the Catalan highways, or the same status as the journalist that was channeled by the comrades of the United Left, whose deadlines were being extended by the majority of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies for four years. In the end the legislature ended and these initiatives fell: the status of the journalist disappeared and the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia also disappeared. In any case, I must admit that what was exceptional in the socialist case, in the case of the People's Party and Citizens, has become the norm of the house, with which greater reason to support this initiative proposed by the socialist comrades. When the sine die extension of the law-making process was already beginning to be scandalous, a new strategy has emerged which consists in exercising - it is worth recalling here - the Government's call for admission to law-propositions before they are taken into consideration. So, what was the point? I say this, because anomalies end up being normal, so what is done is to formalize perversion, parliamentary filibusterism. What's the point? It is argued that this implies an increase in appropriations or a decrease in budgetary revenue. This veto is used abusively and discreetly, making it in fact a veto of an ideological nature, and I give you an example. I veto the proposal of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands not to grant new authorizations for the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean Sea, even though they did not affect the current budget. That is to say, the expansive interpretation, making - I repeat - of the parliamentary filibusterism academy converts and distorts even the reason, the reasonable, the logical, since in this case there is no budgetary allocation, but it is something strictly ideological. This parliamentary and governmental filibusterism is based on two major factors: the executive power has usurped the functions of the legislative power, that is, to block the legislative capacity of Congress, and to abuse the legislative capacity by means of royal decrees. After all, what we are doing is encouraging the turn governments to use what should be the anomaly, the exception, i.e. the actual decrees. We're throwing stones at our own roof. And who are the victims? Popular representation; ultimately, democracy. In short, we are going to vote in favour. It is also true that - let me say the popular expression - we are a little burned with everything that affects the amendments to the Rules of Congress, since it is only urgent to change it that political party that, when it is in the opposition - coming from the government - feels more harmed. I understand the reasons of the Socialist Party, but this must remember that there are parliamentary groups that we have always suffered, we have always been harmed to the extent that, as a minority in this Congress of Deputies, we have sometimes suffered both the prepotence of the People's Party and the prepotence of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It is also true, and I conclude, that what is less normal - this behaviour in the Socialist Party - becomes normal and therefore perverse when it is the People's Party who exercises it, which is why, despite everything, we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u13	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Leal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u14	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I feel obliged to explain a little bit the reform that is being brought here by the Socialist Parliamentary Group because none of those who have preceded me in the use of the floor have explained it. It is basically intended to reform the first paragraph of Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the capacity of parliamentary groups and Members to submit amendments to the bills submitted by the Government in this House. The current regulation is that within 15 days Members and parliamentary groups can table amendments. As has been said here, this deadline for amendments has been extended. That has been the ordinary activity for many years, often attended by the group that is proposing the revision today. What reform is being proposed? Three scenarios are laid down: a first period of fifteen days for Members and parliamentary groups; second and third periods which would be only for parliamentary groups, excluding Members already; and the fourth and successive extensions could only be requested by parliamentary groups with an absolute majority in the House. As you can deduce, this obviously means limiting, restricting and restricting the activity of this House, contrary to what has been said here. [[Applauds]] I want to stop in several ways. First of all, when did you present this initiative? They presented it on 30 June, that is, they had been in the Government for 30 days or less. While the rest of the groups were asking for the hundred days of courtesy, you in thirty days wanted to change the rules of the game in a surreptitiously way. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it is demonstrated once again, in case it was not enough already, that when President Sánchez said that he was going to call elections immediately he was lying absolutely because it was not true, he intended to extend the legislature. First, presentation. Secondly, a majority of the Bureau. With this initiative you intend to alter or delegitimize the functions of the Bureau, which is the result of a general election, that procedure which so stings and hurts you. [[Rumors]] Indeed, the composition of the Bureau is the result of the election procedure and you want to change your powers. Thirdly, a motion of censure. It seems that you are frightened or embarrassed to recognize that you have come to power by a motion of censure. That's right. The procedure is legitimate, of course, and no one is going to discuss it. If it wasn't legal, it would have taken us five minutes to get to court, but it's legal. What happens is that you do not accept the consequences of the motion of censure, and one of them is that the composition of the House and the composition of the Bureau remain. I mean, with this reform you want to limit a right; you accept what you like about the motion of censure, which is not to have gone through the electoral procedure, but you want to remove the faculty that the House Bureau has. Look, from 1982 until now there have been twelve amendments to the Rules of Procedure of Congress. None of them have been the subject of the legislative procedure. This would be the first, but with one particularity, and it would affect a fundamental right, which is the right of all Members to exercise their public office. And that's not what I'm saying, that's what the Constitutional Court says, judgments 4/2018 or 114/2017. [[applause]] The position of force that the law has in our legal system derives not only from the participation of all of you, deputies and groups, in the drafting of laws, but also from the fact that laws are the result of a procedure that is based on two essential principles, which are the principle of contradiction and advertising. This is part of a strong idea: to involve all parliamentary groups and to seek the highest degree of consensus within the framework of a procedure that seeks that agreement. But this reform that you are proposing is to curtail the power of Members and groups to intervene in the legislative procedure and to give greater prominence to the government. Yes, to his government. That is the proposal. But that initiative weakens an essential basis of our procedure, which is political pluralism. That is what you want to carry out, with the particularity that in addition to the current legislative activity there are numerous subjects that require - the whole constitutionalist doctrine says - a greater degree of reflection. [[applause]] And I also tell you that the powers of the Bureau of the House are endorsed by rulings and decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is the Bureau that decides when the request for extension is being made in a twisting form or for the purpose provided for by law. In short, I tell you that these are the characteristics you have. But the most striking thing - and with this I'm finishing - is that you incur a conceptual contradiction. Today you have presented proposals for the extension of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, of the Criminal Code with the permanent prison reviewable, of the Organic Law of the Judiciary with universal justice, where you have remained alone, with euthanasia, with gender-based violence... These are proposals for requests for extension which you would be squandering on your own initiative. I'll tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Citizens' position is not to limit, not to block. We want to reform the legislative procedure, we want to update and boost the Rules of Congress, but in an appropriate way. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We understand that this proposal severely limits a fundamental right, which is that of Members and groups, and also generating a vice that is likely to be constitutionally relevant. Let me give you a piece of advice because you are - in view of what you have presented and the practice you are carrying today in this new political period - the worst version of a political party like the Socialist Party, which is many years old and a historical parliamentary tradition. And why is this? For the obsession of sanchism to remain one more day in the government at the expense of anything, and with partners who do not believe in dialogue and much in imposition. All that is leading you to squander that credit you have. Let me tell you that you must return to democratic normality and to the basis of modern constitutionalism, which is political pluralism. I guarantee you they're still on time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u15	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to tell the previous Member, who has spoken by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, that neither the Bureau is the result of a general election nor the placement of Members in this House is the result of the general elections; political pluralism has to do with many factors: dialogue, consensus and respect for parliamentary groups which have the same legitimacy of representation in this House as citizens have. [[applause]] I now turn to the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and I have to say that parliamentary action has been hampered since the beginning of this parliamentary term by the blocking of the parliamentary and legislative procedure of the legislative proposals of the parliamentary groups and also of the autonomous parliaments. In a dynamic of difficult parliamentary arithmetic, we have encountered different parliamentary mechanisms which have prevented not only the debate in this House but also which, inexplicably, have extended situations of legislative anomaly. The extension of amendments has been a mechanism of these characteristics and the Government's vetoes have also been one of them for some time now. Perhaps one of the most paradigmatic issues is the repeal of section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which in our group we have called Berlusconi Law and which means ending the investigative times of the major causes of corruption and organized crime. Well, as an example of absurdity, we have had almost a year and a half of extensions of amendments for a matter involving the deletion of an article, a deletion which the majority of this House has said yes. We cannot operate with the use of regulatory tools to recompose decisions taken by the majority of this House. Having overcome the issue of vetoes, as I have just said, in the line that this group has maintained from the beginning on the basis of constitutional doctrine, we remain no less an obstacle to the proper functioning of this House, and it is the harsh handling of the extension deadlines that has been made. The position of some parliamentary instruments has allowed for the mastery of deadlines, times and the normalization of legislative initiatives, a position of domination that does not correspond to the majority of the plenary, as has been seen in the motion of censure. Some 23 laws of the 290 proposals have been passed in this legislature. This, which represents only a timid 8% of the initiatives, means that the vast majority of the proposals are not voted on or debated. The abuse of the indefinite extension, which blocks the legislative action of Congress, is a cut in the democratic quality of the Spanish system and is supported by conservative groups in this House. The parliamentary blockade shows how a minority implements the institutional mechanisms to make the progress proposed by the majority of this House invisible. Extensions of infinite amendments are a practice of parliamentary filibusterism, which, being used sparingly, eliminates the play of majorities and minorities and restricts the activity of this House and its political pluralism. It is clear that this eternal extension is intended to bring proposals for legislation into time for amendments until the end of the legislature, when all initiatives that have not been adopted will fall. This is a sustained gesture, in line with the strategy of schism and political frustration that we have warned throughout this legislature. We have a majority in bodies in this House that do not correspond to the social reality or the composition of the plenary; however, it is blocking the legislative power of the Congress of Deputies. We call on this majority not to use parliamentary tools in a partisan manner and not to be afraid of parliamentary instruments and majorities; to give way to political participation and negotiation in the face of caciquism. Parliamentary reality has changed permanently and there is no point in entrenching itself in causing legislative paralysis. This paralysis undermines the exercise of the fundamental right to direct political participation of citizens and is a clear example of building everyone versus obstructing a few. We are aware of the need to generate political consensus to promote legislative measures that change the lives of citizens, so we will always be in favour of such democratic measures. The faltering use of the extension of the amendment as a veto has led to the frustration of major proposals for social development, such as the proposal for a law abolishing the Lomce calendar, with some 69 enlargements of total amendments since the beginning of December 2016; the PL of remuneration equality, whose extension has been lifted this morning; the PL on unemployment protection or the PL on the rise of the SMI, extended more than 68 times and still in amendments to total since December 2016, almost two years ago. Do they really need more than two years to decide whether or not to table an amendment in its entirety? This can be for two things: either by incompetence or by deliberate legislative blockage. The interesting thing about a PL that We may have presented on the rise of the SMI, and which has to do precisely with this double alternative, is that immediately afterwards the People's Party and Citizens reached an agreement precisely on the rise of the SMI. Many of the initiatives that are being blocked by the extension of amendments have been presented jointly by several parliamentary groups, not one of them. The real substance of this debate is, therefore, who has effective sovereignty. The Constitution makes it clear that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people; however, the self-appointed constitutionalists are substituting that capacity for their political will. We need to make it clear that this institutional violence stifles parliamentary majorities by taking political decisions. Gentlemen, selling the homeland is not about kneeling in Brussels asking for external interventions; selling the homeland is about preventing the legislative action that we push to improve people's lives. Today we have the opportunity to take advantage of the new political scenario, but really, not this morning's farce, which discovered, among other things, some partisan interests also lifting the veto on some initiatives. Although this initiative is likely to be extended for ever, we will work to reach agreements with the other parliamentary groups to end this blockade in the governing bodies of this House. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u17	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u18	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to start by saying that there are interventions that do not cease to surprise us in this House, but the truth is that at this point in the legislature, and with what we are living, we are virtually no longer surprised at all. Of course, we are not surprised by the speeches made in this rostrum from the bench of the parliamentary left. That is why we are not surprised that most of their time this afternoon has been spent criticizing and disqualifying the People's Parliamentary Group rather than trying to argue and maintain their position with a minimum of rigour, because, of course, this is much more complicated for them. Firstly, because the possibility of requesting extensions to the expiry of amendments is a regulatory authority that has been used by all groups in all legislatures. [[Applauds]] In fact, it is a common practice in this House justified, for example, by the need to manage parliamentary work or by the complexity or scope of certain legislative projects. That is why your proposal is not based on legal arguments, and it does not do so simply because there are no legal arguments, and less because of the parliamentary precedents in this House. Some examples have been put on top of the Bureau. I will put other legislatures in which the President of this House was socialist. For example - Mr Tardà and I repeat - in the VIII Legislature, some initiatives, such as the proposed law on the Journalist's Statute, had, listen to him, one hundred and nine extensions of the deadline for amendments. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred and nine enlargements which were necessarily supported by the representatives of the Socialist Group on the Bureau. But in a more recent legislature, in the IX, of the forty-two legislative proposals taken into consideration, do you know how many expired and did not complete their proceedings at the end of the legislature? Of forty-two, twenty-six, more than half; among them, the proposal for a law on the inclusion of persons with disabilities, which was an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group and whose deadline for amendments was extended more than ninety times in a Bureau then chaired by Mr Bono. With these precedents, how do you have the courage to come up to this rostrum and accuse the People's Party of blocking parliamentary initiatives? Or is it that what applies to a Bureau chaired by a socialist does not apply to a Bureau chaired by a Member of the People's Party? What kind of argument is that, ladies and gentlemen? Because that is what they are looking for, preventing the Bureau of this House, democratically elected at the beginning of this parliamentary term, from being able to decide by a majority on the extension of time limits for amendments. You will be able to tell me: Okay, we recognize that in past legislatures we called for an extension of the deadline for amendments, but in this legislature we have not done so. Well, I have here the data described for extending applications from all the groups in this House since February of this year; not since the beginning of the legislature, since February of this year, and all the groups, not one, all the groups have used this faculty: it has been done by the Joint Parliamentary Group, it has been done by the Basque Parliamentary Group, it has also been done by Esquerra; yes, in a limited way. [[EAJ-PNV]] But Podemos has done it on seventeen occasions! And the PSOE in nineteen! I repeat: only since February this year. By the way, in one of them, Socialists, at the end of June, do you know how many legislative initiatives the Socialist Group has called for an extension of the deadline for amendments? Well, no more or less than about 36, Mr. Simancas. [[Rumors]] Almost all of them. And that's not an isolated fact and they know it. Tips I sell but for me I don't have. That is the curious way you have to understand coherence in politics. [[Applauds]] And it is that one thing is the speeches and another thing quite different is the parliamentary reality and the parliamentary reality indicates that there are so many or more initiatives in the presentation phase that, in time for amendments, almost 40 initiatives in the presentation and some have been there for more than a year and a half. And that is not the responsibility of the Socialist or Citizens' Parliamentary Group, that is the responsibility of all parliamentary groups. By the way, the Committee on Justice, which is chaired by a Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is at the head of the behind-the-scenes ranking. And why does that happen? For one reason in particular, for the difficulty of forming majorities in order to take these initiatives forward. But in other cases it is because the presentation is not even made and that is what has happened, for example, in the reform of the Law on Pardon, where the deadline for amendments ended in February this year and we have had to force the Bureau of the Committee on Justice to convene the constitution of the presentation eight months later, and above all today, in the paper, they call for more time to evaluate the amendments and also call for new appearances. And then they say that it is we who are delaying and blocking parliamentary initiatives, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you a little more coherence and also respect for this House, because the possibility of parliamentary work is not being curtailed here. That speech, in addition to falsifying, only succeeds in harming this institution and this institution does not deserve it. And I would ask you one last question, Mr Simancas, Socialists: why are you discussing the legislative procedure now, at the end of the legislature, and not at the beginning of the legislature? For the answer you have given, Mr Simancas, because we all know that the real reason behind your proposal is to move forward with your reform of the Budget Stability Act to neutralise the Senate's co-decision capacity to set deficit targets and the spending ceiling - I believe that this is also the case with the citizens - although this can lead us to general budgets that are the perfect recipe for returning to recession and crisis. They already tried it a month ago with an amendment where it did not touch, in clear fraud of parliamentary law, and now they want to do it with a last-minute regulatory reform to serve their interests. To this end, they seem to be willing to neutralize all those institutions and bodies that they cannot control. That is the new policy, which has allowed a loser to become president of the Government of Spain with the sole merit of having managed to bring together in his favor all those who want to end it. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same thing to occupy the power to govern; it is not the same, although that seems to them to matter little. They have never really been examples of good governance, they know a lot more about propaganda, for which they do not care to put at their service certain public agencies and institutions. But governing is something else and you need something more than an anti-PP front. Therefore, do not speak here of blockade or of distortions, do not blame either the Senate or the Bureau of Congress because here the only thing that is distorting, the only thing that is blocking the parliamentary process is that for the first time in democracy it is ruling the party that lost the elections and that has only 84 deputies in this House. [[Applauds]] And that reality is clumsy and they won't be able to change it for many laps, proposals, machinations or scams that they try to do. You know why? Because that inability you have to govern is only going to be solved in one way, returning the voice to the people and calling for elections. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u20	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, amending Law 29/1987 of 18 December of the Tax on Successions and Donations. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u21	Thank you, President. Finally we will discuss in the forum of Congress the abolition of the tax on inheritances and donations, a national tax given to the autonomous communities that has generated inequality and a legal gallimatías and that above all... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u23	Thank you, President. He told them that it was a bad idea at a bad time and that we have to correct where it was generated. Here, in the Congress of Deputies, today your ladies and gentlemen will have to decide whether they want to put their hand in the pocket of those who inherit a floor from their parents or grandparents, whether they want to put their hand in the pocket of those who donate money so that their children can go ahead or buy a floor or whether they want effort and equality to take precedence over collecting desires and, in addition, inequality between Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 20 different tax regimes to deal with. Then I will give some examples of this so that you can see the injustice that we are doing by not abolishing this tax. We have the chaotic situation; there are Spaniards who think where they are going to die precisely so that the effort of their life is not left in the hands of the State, with a different burden in each autonomous community. There are Spaniards making family and personal decisions at very hard times depending on who has thought of going up or down or the parliamentary majority of a congress or a regional parliament. We have inequalities, yes, there are Spaniards who, by the same token, either do not pay or pay 30% of taxes. And that, of course, must be corrected, and it must be done here. For forty years the PP and the PSOE have been dedicated, rather than decentralizing, to fragmenting, and I want a decentralized, non-fragmented Spain; I want a Spain with equal rights and opportunities, and that Spain that you have drawn, that Frankenstein that bipartisanism has drawn from a Spain that no longer recognizes itself as equal, where there are such flagrant differences between Spanish people, we must correct it. I know you don't like it, you like to deal more with nationalists, but we like to deal with the Spaniards so that they have the same rights. [[Applauds]] So today we are going to vote for the abolition of the inheritance and donation tax, which is different in each community, which in some no longer exists and in others there are up to 30%, as I have told you. I give you an example, Castile and Leon, People's Party ruling for decades, the inheritance tax exists; the People's Party has not removed the inheritance tax in Castile and Leon. Either we bring him here or he won't take it off. In Galicia, Ñúñez Feijóo has not removed the inheritance tax. Either we bring him here or the People's Party won't take him off. In Extremadura, Castile-La Mancha, Valencian Community - where the People's Party and now the Socialist Party have ruled - there is the inheritance tax. Therefore, as we see, this is no different when the different govern; it is always the same. PP and PSOE in different communities maintain inheritance tax. Where has it been achieved in this legislature that it has not taxed on inheritances and donations? In two communities. One, Andalusia. You know why? Because there was no parliamentary majority and the majority decided it Citizens. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Romero Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you in thirty-seven years of opposition will be delighted to have met, but you have achieved nothing in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] And now even you, Member of the People's Party, are not going to pay taxes thanks to that Citizens' agreement if you inherit a flat or a house. I'm not saying thank you, but at least don't lie. But it is that in Murcia - where you had the inheritance tax - in this legislature, so that there would be parliamentary majority Citizens demanded the People's Party to remove the inheritance tax, and we did so. It cost them a lot but we took it off. [[Applauds]] In Aragon, where the Socialist Party ruled and the People's Party ruled and never touched the inheritance tax, we have reached an agreement from the opposition that there should be a threshold of EUR 500 000 exempt. Well, the Aragonese have not removed the inheritance tax - we will remove it if we vote in favour - but they have also achieved a step forward thanks to those negotiations. You know why? Because Citizens in Aragon, Madrid, Murcia or Andalusia did not ask for chairs, secretariats or official cars or freighters, they asked for improvements for the working middle class. [[Applauds]] While others are sharing advice, we believe that we must take away from the middle and working class. That is probably why in some places some citizens believe that they have to choose options other than bipartisanism at this time, because they have never taken away their inheritance tax and are now seeing how they deliver all that effort. I am talking about flagrant cases, I am talking about people, for example, who have inherited and cannot accept the inheritance because they cannot pay the tax. There are real cases of people who do not accept an inheritance because it is difficult for them to pay the tax and cannot ask for a mortgage. There are cases of elderly people, including pensioners, who inherit a flat from their father or mother and cannot inherit it because they cannot pay the tax, because they have a pension and do not give them the mortgage. Do you really believe that we are going to maintain this tax and that you can do so in the name of equality? No; this is inequality, and those who are less able are precisely those who do not make fiscal planning, those who do not have chiringuitos or have, like some ministers here, screen companies; no, no, these people have to tax. So less lessons. Tell some ministers who have screen companies in Panama to pay taxes, and let's help the working middle class not to have to pay this unfair tax. [[Applauds]] We are talking about people who inherit a family business, for example, farmers. In Andalusia, for example, there are many farmers who now do not have to pay if they want to stay the farm of their parents or grandparents. That's a big step forward, that's a useful policy, not to fight or insult or throw dishes at the head, but to get those farmers, those little workers and entrepreneurs to manage not to have to pay taxes for what is theirs, which is their family's, which is their parents', which is their grandparents'. Do we really want to bet on the rural world? We must remove the inheritance tax on farmers. That is a measure to bet on the rural world. That's what we're going to do here today if you approve. Less chatter and more bet on the rural world. [[Applauds]] And we're talking about housing, of course, we're talking about cases that affect housing. I will set an example for you to see the absurd gallimatías that we have in Spain. Imagine that we had a house, in this inherited case, a house worth 350 000 euros. For in Castile and León, where the People's Party governs, it would pay 6800 euros for inheritance tax, but if it goes to the Valencian Community, where the People's Party ruled and now the Socialist Party governs, it would pay 37 000 euros for the same. 6800 to 37,000. What curse did you touch? Born in Valencia instead of born in Segovia? No, he was born in Spain; he was born in a country that has equal rights and freedoms and, therefore, it seems fair not to be paid for that inherited house. I'll give you another example. If they were 400 000, in the Valencian Community they would go to 44 600 euros. Hey, does everyone really have 44,000 euros to pay a tax? There will be people who will have to mortgage, and if you're a pensioner and you don't have the resources, if you have a job and you don't get it by the end of the month, how are you going to pay a mortgage for what's yours, for the inheritance of what your parents and grandparents have gotten? I don't see any point, really. I see no sense in punishing effort, punishing savings and punishing those who have done things right, which is working a lot, working a lot and having a small savings, a family home or a family business. [[Applauds]] For these people this law goes. I would like to give you another example: if you today inherited an estate, a house for 400 000 euros in Andalusia would pay zero euros. Because he wanted the Socialist Party? No; because we forced him to delete it with the agreement with Citizens, that's why. Today in Murcia they would pay zero euros for a house of 400 000. Because the People's Party did it in twenty years that it was ruling? No; because we reached an agreement negotiating with the People's Party in Murcia. What do I mean by that? That the parties that govern and maintain the inheritance and donation tax, Socialist Party and People's Party, today have... [[Lorenzo Torres utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah. Well, you don't even know where they're running, I just read it to you. You should know what you do where you rule. Look, People's Party, Castile and Lion, 18 700 euros for a house of 400 000. [[Lorenzo Torres utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah. Find out, because you don't even know where they rule. Here's what's there. [[Applauds]] Here's what's there. It is hard because you have ruled for many years and have not taken it away, but it is harder for families who have to pay for it and for you who are Members of Parliament. So what we are asking the people of the People's Party and the people of the Socialist Party to rectify, as they have had to rectify in Andalusia the socialists or in Murcia the people, to rectify together today and to process this law. If you want to negotiate, we are open to negotiating this law, but let us give the green light to the abolition of the inheritance and donation tax for the first time in Spain. I'll put that to you. I do not want to convince you, I do not want you to applaud him, I do not want you to tell us that we are right; I am satisfied that you do not block this law today, that you do not try to prevent this debate today. It is a debate that affects the pocket of the Spaniards, it is a debate that affects the working middle class and it is a debate that goes to the line of flotation of the effort of the families. I therefore believe that this is a debate of those who are interested and of those who we have to bring to Congress. So I propose to all those parties that have maintained this tax for decades that are now self-amending and recognizing that it is not the right thing to do and that we must change it. I do not think we should confuse decentralisation with fragmentation. It is not necessary to confuse services to citizens with removing rights or money, and this tax has not improved the situation in that sense; quite the contrary, there are people literally suffering from where they die or where their father or mother dies or how they can leave the inheritance or what they have to do to ask for a mortgage at the age of sixty. I want people in my country not to be concerned at such difficult times as dying or having to leave an inheritance. Therefore, what we bring makes sense and makes sense that it is the same throughout Spain. The Socialist Party says - we have also heard it from Podemos - that we must equal it, but to impose more taxes on everyone. What they are proposing here is not like what the People's Party is proposing, which is to leave it, but to increase it. They plant, not that it stays, as the PP does, but that it increases. We propose to delete it, see how different. Here they suggest that we have to equal it, but in order for everyone to pay more; we, what we propose in this law that we bring here today, which is going to be debated today and which you are going to vote on, are to delete it. You'll say, "Well, that's money. Of course it's money! It's about EUR 19 billion, we've calculated it. We are not like those of Podemos; we have calculated how much it costs. What we propose is to recover something that we have already proposed in the government agreement with the Socialist Party and the People's Party, a commission to study the doubles in Spain. Let's really study what's left and what's missing in Spain. [[Applauds]] There will surely be fat left and muscle left and political chiringuitos will surely be left, some public enterprises, some duplicities, some trusting positions and measures like this will no doubt be lacking. We know what it costs, and it's 19 billion euros across Spain, imagine. The minister of the Socialist Party says that 19 billion is nothing, kiddo. Well, this is $19 billion, kiddies, and that $19 billion can be financed by suppressing doubles. We reached an agreement that abolished 1 billion each year. If we also help some political chiringuitos, we can go further, but we have to be brave, ladies and gentlemen, we have to take the middle class away and remove political chiringuitos from the party and that implies courage and courage. So I, finally, Madam President, am going to ask for the vote in favour of this law. I don't care what you've done so far in one place or another, because I think the legitimate thing is that we're starting from a basis for negotiation. This is a law that abolishes the tax on inheritance and donations throughout Spain and I believe it is of justice and equality. I want to live in a country that gives priority to effort, to saving; to the one that plays it, to the one that sets up a company and ultimately wants to continue working and working hard. This is a law for the working middle class, it is not a law for those who want inequalities between Spaniards, it is not a law for those who have collection anxiety, but a law to recognize that effort. Indeed, let us all try to make that effort rewarded and that from this Congress, in addition to trifles, in addition to scorns, in addition to insults and what other things, we can say to the Spaniards looking at them in the eyes: We have all agreed that you do not worry about how and when you have to inherit and that you may be calm, because your effort will be rewarded. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u24	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Forum vote will be in favour of this consideration of the proposed law amending the inheritance and donation tax, because it is an initiative similar to that which our party has been repeatedly promoting in Asturias since its founding in 2011 and even governing, so that the socialist requisition will cease to apply to the residents of our autonomous community, which affects the well-being of those who have the legitimate right to inherit the heritage achieved by the work, effort and sacrifice of their elders. Asturians, once again discriminated against, are national leaders in the fiscal pressure of this tribute, all a voracious penalization that is added to the negative official indicators that affect the decline of the region and that is causing relocations of both natural and legal persons, so it has to usurp the inheritances to cover the disastrous socialist management of public finances. This explains the fiscal exodus that plagues the region. The confiscation imposed on the estates that we suffer bleeds the hereditary property rights of those who lack resources, who are either forced to be indebted to face it or to renounce the inheritance, as happened in the past year 2017, in which the record was beaten in a community that has the highest aging in Spain, the lowest labour force rate in the country for years, a persistently divergent GDP and where job creation is at poor levels, as demonstrated by the labour force survey published last week, in which it was reflected that Asturias is the only community that lost employment in a year. In short, for Forum it is only possible to abolish the inheritance and donation tax. What is happening in Asturias explains the inexcusable urgency of adopting this measure and eliminating it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u26	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, I will put data, because you have little data, but I would like to ask you a question that I believe is key: what do you mean by middle working class, to charge 10 000 euros a month or 1594 euros, which is the average salary of this country? That is the key we need to give light to this debate. I am going to make a proposal to harmonise and coordinate the inheritance and donation tax and to avoid, for example, the tax dumping which you have agreed to in the Madrid Community. I will give you the data and the operation of this tax in the Valencian Community, to which you referred; we are now going to do so. Number of self-liquidations, 662 325, of which 140 353 have not been paid. 87% didn't pay anything. Why? Because they're middle class. Do you know who paid for it? Those who have paid more than EUR 5000 are only 3%. I didn't know that now you were subscribed to the three percent band. And do you know who pays the inheritance and donation tax in the Valencian Community? So basically that 10% that Intermon Oxfam says it holds more wealth than most of the population. Is it okay for those who have the most taxes to pay? Or is it the middle class Botín? Or is it the middle class Florentine? Or yourself? You're saying three very dangerous messages here. First, that you attack the principle that whoever has the most, pays the most, taking charge of the foundation of the welfare state, and then you are afraid of Salvini and company. You're trying to normalize privileges by saying that it's normal, for example, that someone owns a hundred floors of property, like a relative of some of your deputies. And thirdly, and more tearing, and you have never told them, what you are trying to do, both in opposition to the IRPF, to the increase of 2 points, and now to the inheritance tax, is not to pay anymore, not to contribute any more, because you will surely have to pay more. What you're showing is that you've all gone through the country. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u28	Thank you. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u29	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, ladies and gentlemen, one more week I must remind you of the shame that there have been political prisoners in prison for a year. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, political prisoners, with pre-trial detention not recognized in any country in Europe. Having said that, Mr Rivera, we are not going to vote in favour of your proposal, we are going to vote against it, and I am going to try to explain it to you in the two minutes that I have. You are not here today to raise a debate on inheritance tax or on the content of inheritance tax, to raise a debate on the recentralisation that you intend to make. [[Rumors]] Yeah. Don't get nervous, I'll explain it to you and then you answer. You have more time than I do, don't worry. Do you know what fiscal responsibility is? Do you know the concept of fiscal responsibility? They do not know it or do not want it to apply to the different autonomous communities in Spain. Each of the deputies elected in each of the autonomous communities has the capacity to decide. You don't care, you don't like it, or maybe you don't get it. This is not a question of whether much is paid or not much is paid for inheritance tax. They present some of these initiatives in the Parliament of Catalonia, which we may agree on in some of them. Present them. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous. I suppose Mrs. Arrimadas will do something in Catalonia, apart from removing ties all over the streets. Let him do his parliamentary work and I am sure that we can agree on some of these. The problem is that you don't like autonomous communities, you don't like that you can legislate, you don't like that you can decide, you don't like that you can be responsible to your fellow citizens, and you want a re-centralisation in all areas. Obviously, this is one more excuse and therefore there is a clear message. Today it is not a question of taxes on inheritance and donations with one limit or another or of whether some pay more and others pay less, today it is a question of removing powers from the parliaments of the autonomous communities, with which you - let us be clear - are absolutely against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u30	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u31	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Citizens today bring to debate the inheritance and donation tax. Normally, this group usually abstains on tax matters, because both Navarra and Euskadi have a differentiated tax system, but now it is already advancing that this group will vote against the proposed law, because it, through the second additional provision, proposes that the effects of the provisions of its proposal be promoted in Euskadi and Navarra, and for us this is unacceptable and, moreover, totally inappropriate, because the competition for what they seek lies in the outside institutions and is concrete in the economic concert and, therefore, it is to be dealt with bilaterally between governments, in the hands of the Joint Commission on the Concert. In other words, the tax and financial relations between the Spanish State and Euskadi and also Navarre are regulated by the traditional foral system of economic concert or convention. The inheritance tax is therefore a concerted duty of autonomous regulation and, as a result, it corresponds to its regulation for each foreign Member; that is, it is they who collect and decide the taxes that citizens have to pay according to their abilities and possibilities, in addition to following the principle of equity. We are therefore faced with a new attempt on the part of Citizens not to homogenize and re-centralize competences but to cancel them and, therefore, against an attack on us. It's a recurring issue, and they also use it as an electoral weapon. It seems that they do not have the objective clear, because we have been told here about abolishing the tax, other times of harmonising the tax on inheritance with a high minimum exemption, etc. It is therefore a proposal without a clear analysis and without, of course, making any assessment of the costs that this may entail in order to then be able to guarantee the welfare state. It is also a competitive invasion for the autonomous communities of the common system, since under their financing system they have various powers in tax matters, including inheritance and donation tax. We therefore believe that they bring here a debate that does not correspond. On the other hand, the proposal put forward would entail the need to compensate for this collection loss, and while the proposed law makes a reference to this fact, the fact is that it does not propose anything specific. They talk about the differences that exist, the inequalities when it comes to taxing in the autonomous communities, and it is true, in Euskadi we are more restrictive when it comes to taxing this tax; the reductions, yes, are smaller, and then they will tell us that we have a tax haven, but for the same justification you should proceed in the same way with other taxes, for example, that of property. What, then, is the level of competence of self-government in a decentralized State? Well, we think you don't care much, because what you want is a fully centralized state by eliminating any debate about the division of competences. Today you have named us a few horrific cases, it seems, in order to make citizens believe that they are going to suffer a robbery when they inherit from a family member, and what you have done has been to compare situations, at best, more than questionable. In addition, you apply on the taxable basis a reduction of 1 million euros, and the truth is that I wish everyone were lucky enough to inherit these amounts. I am not going to discuss the proposals because, as I have already said, we are going to vote that not because of this attempt at re-centralisation in a tax in which we have jurisdiction, because we believe it is necessary - because it imposes enrichment and has a redistributive purpose, because it affects the intergenerational accumulation of wealth - and just, because it contemplates corrections of progressiveness to tax the highest inheritances. In short, it is a measure of income redistribution. Of course, our regulation protects middle and low incomes. We understand that they are obsessed with uniformity, also in tax matters, and care, because this can also mean worsening the fiscal situation of other self-governments. Uniformity does not amount to equity or equality. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u32	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u33	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Mr. Rivera, gentlemen of Citizens, you have done it again. You, supposedly liberals, do not miss the opportunity to demonstrate your attachment to populism today growing with authoritarian proposals in the political sphere, defending for example the 'a for them', the beatings and the judges to intimidate their political rivals, and are ultra-neo-liberal in the economic sphere, and, of course, from all this conception of the economic reality of the country, more typical of Donald Trump than from liberal democracy, comes this proposition of law. On this occasion, its objective is the inheritance and donation tax, which, as you will know, is a state tax transferred to the autonomous communities, in which the normative powers were delegated to configure certain elements of the tax; in the case of Catalonia, to the Tax Agency of Catalonia. But that doesn't matter to you. You don't care about the powers given to the autonomous communities and their autonomy statutes; you try to trample them whenever you can. In this case, you announce that the aim of this proposal for a law is, I say, 'the essential need to achieve tax harmonisation', I close quotes. Nice phrase to say in reality: recentralisation and total control by the State of this tax. With this proposal, you are violating both the financial autonomy and the tax power of the autonomous communities recognized in articles 156 and 157 of the Spanish Constitution - which you like and defend - and regulated in the Lofca. It is true that in the development of this legislation by the autonomous communities there has been a downward fiscal competition, in breach of the principle of solidarity, which has led to the virtual disappearance of this tax in some autonomous communities in some transmissions, such as those taking place in the most direct family nucleus. Therefore, we are faced with a scenario in which, far from rewarding those autonomous communities that make a higher fiscal effort, they are penalized. And what is Citizen's response to all this? Establish even more tax benefits, leaving communities virtually without a tax to apply. And given the risk that fiscal competition between countries and regions will lead to a race to see who lowers taxes more and thus attracts more capital, Citizens propose to eliminate it directly. Someday they're going to propose to end tax fraud by eliminating taxes. That is actually what they propose here, although for the moment they only do so with this tax. We assume that it is a matter of winning votes among the children of those who fund their party today, ensuring that they can live with what the family leaves them and that they will not have to prove their own merits; exactly the antipodes of liberal thinking, which has always defended meritocracy and equal opportunities, and which is why it has always defended taxing inheritances. You propose the opposite to all this: that inequality in origin defines inequality in life; that origin becomes destiny and the freedom of wealth of the rich, when what is precisely necessary in the Spanish State and in the European Union is to negotiate and agree on the harmonization of this and other taxes in order to avoid any possible dumping and to harmonize upwards and not downwards, precisely for the same reasons that the genuine liberals defend, to avoid that the origin of each person prefigures their destiny, making their freedom an oxymoron, and to promote equal opportunities in a society where talent and effort prevail. That is why we are voting against. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u34	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u35	Thank you. Mr. Rivera, how lazy it is for me to have the same debate with you that I had last Christmas with my brother-in-law at Christmas dinner. [[Laughter]] That's exactly what we're going to discuss here today. [[Applauds]] You present us with a proposal for a law to eliminate corporation tax and I am surprised that your bench will do so, where you are sitting - today you are not, I don't know why - to a tax inspector to whom I respect intellectually deeply and who could have explained something about public tax in two afternoons so as not to make it ridiculous to bring a proposal for a law plagued with falsehoods, lies and erroneous conclusions. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] I'll tell Mr. De la Torre, don't worry. We have a good relationship and besides, I insist, I have maximum intellectual respect for him. You claim something absolutely intolerable from any point of view, such as ending the inheritance and donation tax, which is a fundamental instrument to fight against inequalities and especially to fight against the transmission of inequality between generations. Otherwise, Mr Rivera, why is this tax believed to exist in twenty-seven of the thirty-four OECD countries? Like that? Do you think that Spain is an anomaly in the European context and in the international context, when the collection in Spain for this reason in proportion to the gross domestic product is comparable and is in the average of the European Union? Do you think that's not the case? In countries where there is no tax, what happens is that there is a higher tax on property tax or on property tax. With that data, do you think Spain is an anomaly? What is more, you, who claim to be liberals and should therefore advocate meritocracy and equal opportunities, seek to eliminate a tax that precisely seeks to combat the inequality of departure. [[Applauds]] Equal opportunities and equal starting conditions should be part of your ideological heritage and you are rejecting it. Obviously, we are against that inequality and we defend the tax, but not only do we, Mr Rivera, also defend it dangerous leftists such as Mr Soros, the Gate marriage, the Rockefellers or Warren Buffet, who in 2001 wrote a letter that they made public in which they said: Eliminating the inheritance tax would be negative for our democracy, our economy and our society. It leads to an aristocracy of wealth that will transmit control over the nation's resources to its descendants and harm families that are barely coming to the end of the month. That's what I've been told. Don't you have to say anything about it? His bill is full of falsehoods. Do you know what the fallacy of hasty generalization is, that as I've seen a donkey flying all the donkeys fly? That's what you do with the arguments you make in the explanatory statement, with the subject of relocations and renunciation of inheritances. [[applause]] I will use data from where you have managed to pass this tax, from the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. On relocations, you seem to ignore that the legislation that applies is that of the autonomous community where the deceased has lived longer in the last five years and that to be a resident of that autonomous community he has had to be living there 183 days a year. Do you imagine many people of that middle and working class, whom you claim to defend, thinking of moving to Madrid so that the heirs of your inheritance do not pay taxes? Is that really true? Yeah? Do you know how many tax-related movements occurred in Andalusia in 2014, which are the latest data we have? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes affirmative gestures.-Applause]] There were 81, of which 17 - only 17 - moved to Madrid, that paradise that is to die and not pay taxes. On the subject of inheritances, I do not say this to you, Mr Rivera - even Mr De la Torre will have said this - this is said by the national school of notaries of this country: the main reason for the resignations is not that the tax cannot be met, the main reason for the resignations is that the inheritance comes with so many debts fundamentally of a mortgage nature that the heir cannot deal with them. In that case many things can be done, but not avoid the tax. Fractions of payment may be established, a moratorium may be established, a payment may be made for property whose inheritance comes with a mortgage, so that such property can be delivered and held against the debt and accept the rest of the inheritance; even the economic situation of the heirs can be taken into account to adjust the tax to the same. Moreover, if there were some kind of relationship between the tax rate of the tax and the waivers, why in Madrid, where the tax is increased to 99 %, the average of the waivers is exactly the same as the national average? If no one has to give up because no taxes are paid, some reason will be different from the tax that justifies such a waiver. Do you know the only ones who have managed to cheat on these arguments? To the PP of Murcia and to Susana Díaz and the Socialist Party of Andalusia; those are the only ones who have managed to deceive to approve a regressive reform of the tax that has caused this year to collect 75 million euros less so that Andalusians and Andalusians can have, for example, better social policies, and that has made that of a supposed middle and working class, of which in 2017 only 20 000 heirs - so reduced believe that it is the middle and working class in Andalusia?-, it happens, thanks to their reforms, that in the next year it is estimated that they will pay only 200 people. I'm finishing up, Madam President. So the problem today is that of the socialist bench. Are you going to vote against this bill with us, or are you going to do like Susana Díaz and the Andalusian Socialist Workers Party, which voted for a reform of the right-wing tax as Mr Rivera brings you today? We have it clear, here and in Andalusia. You seem to be not so much, so I encourage you to clarify yourself because it would be good for the social majority of our country and our communities that we can also understand ourselves in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u36	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u37	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, your speech is pure demagogy and you know it, but the most serious thing is that you do not realize that all you can do with it is weaken the fiscal awareness of the citizenry. Socialists advocate reforming the inheritance and donation tax, as well as the property tax, with the intention of establishing common minimum taxation in all communities, so that these taxes are given greater equity throughout the State, in accordance with the recommendations of the 2014 tax reform commission and the experts for the reform of autonomous financing in 2017. We aim to homogenize diversity in order to achieve equity and equality because, if there is no fiscal harmonization, communities with higher per capita income have incentives to reduce taxes that have been transferred, causing unequal and unfair distribution of tax burden among communities, in response to their need for additional resources to finance public services. There is therefore a need for harmonization that prevents tax competition from falling between communities, tax dumping or even fraud and circumvention, but we cannot share either ideologically or in practical terms the proposal of citizens' law because it is a trap, since under the appearance of harmonisation its ultimate aim is to reduce the tax in a general way and in some cases to put an end to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a personal direct tax and, most importantly, it is progressive, and its elimination or loss of progressiveness proposed to us Citizens reduce the welfare state. Citizens are proposing amendments without taking into account three elements which are of utmost importance to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Firstly, it does not take into account the redistributive role of the tax. They propose a significant reduction in the tax and in some cases de facto abolish it, regardless of the value of the property inherited or donated, a claim contrary to the principles of justice and fairness of the tax system. For Citizens it is the same to inherit three houses as one, receive 100 000 or 10 million euros. Because of the mere fact that they are close relatives, of the first degree, this action does not produce tax effects by recognising the bonus of the quota of one hundred per cent, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is neither fair nor equitable and contributes to increasing inequality in our country, and I remind you that it is one of the largest in Europe. It is true that some communities are already implementing measures of this kind, but approving this initiative would involve the generalization of these measures to all communities, eliminating de facto the redistributive role of the tax and influencing inequality. In this sense, the third report on inequality in Spain of the Alternatives Foundation is very interesting, where we find with data that inheritance is one of the most influential factors in inequality. There is a clear correlation between income inequality and the distribution of wealth, and the high concentration rates observed in the distribution of wealth reproduce in the value of the inheritance received. This is precisely what explains why this tax has been validated and widely supported by experts in this field from a redistributive perspective of fiscal policy. In addition, the Lagares report related the tax to the importance of its redistributive effect on equal opportunities, as well as its relationship with intergenerational equity and incentives for effort, work and savings. That is why it is defined precisely as a social tax that taxes the income that comes from receiving goods free of charge without having made a personal effort to obtain them. But despite their recognition, there are those who insist on discrediting this tax by saying that it is paid twice for the same thing, and this is false. The inheritance and donation tax imposes the transmission of wealth and not the accumulation of wealth, by which it is taxed in another tax. These are two separate taxable facts with different taxable persons and different payment capacities. Therefore, there is no double taxation. It is also false what Mr Rivera says - and what has also been affected by other colleagues who have preceded me in the use of the word - that the payment of this tax obliges a large number of waivers. The statistics, of course, do not indicate the reasons for them and - as has already been said and I stress this again - where there is no tax there are also resignations. The common link must therefore be placed in the context of the crisis rather than in the context of the tax. Ladies and gentlemen, to solve the problems they must be properly identified and blamed for the tax, of course, they cannot be solved. The second of the elements I wanted to bring to you is that it does not take into account the pronouncement of the autonomous communities, which have yielded this tax with broad normative capacity. Technically, this is a state tax from which the yield produced in its territory has been transferred to the autonomous communities, so that although the exclusive competence of the general estate belongs to the State - according to article 149 of the Spanish Constitution - there is no point in legislating outside them. And the third element is that it does not take into account the effects of tax cuts on autonomous financing. In fact, according to the committee of experts for the reform of the financing system, this tax has a non-describable collection capacity - in 2014 around 22 billion euros - so, how do you plan to compensate Citizens for this collection to attend to health and education? They don't say it or think it, because what they really want is to reduce the welfare state, in line with the most neoliberal theses. In an additional provision they talk about the reform of the financing system, but with this reference, ladies and gentlemen, they only question their own initiative by corroborating the desirability of not altering previously with tax cuts the resources of the communities in the face of the negotiation of the new system. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that the Government is working to achieve a tax system in which those who have the most are the ones who pay the most and that this contribution is translated into better services for all and so to advance in a more just and equitable society. The tax harmonization of inheritance and donation tax is already a working line of the government-driven group within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, but it seems that the Citizens' Group does not care about this circumstance. For all the above reasons, the Socialist Group will vote against the validation of this initiative, which we consider populist and demagogic because it does not solve the fundamental problem, but rather increases the funding of the autonomous communities and leads us to a model that only succeeds in financing inequality. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Mr Fole Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u39	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, with all due respect, I have to tell you - and believe me, I tell you with all due respect - that your desire for leadership seems to have no end. With you everything has begun, and I see you coming, on the 40th anniversary of the Constitution we will be surprised that one of the parents of the Constitution was already Citizens. [[Applauds]] I'm sure it will. With all due respect, I'm telling you. They bring here today a proposal of law shows what marks the trend in Spanish politics, the posturn; in this case, fiscal postureo. And I'll show you why. They present this proposed law with the aim, according to their explanatory statement, of harmonising the tax downwards, modifying the amounts; modifying the groups; amending exemptions and bonuses; limiting the autonomous communities to establishing reductions below the state norm, inter alia, with some additional provision and so on; amending, in short, article 20 of the law containing all these cases. What position does the People's Party have on this proposal? Well, since it couldn't be otherwise, it shares this philosophy. Why? Because it was in the decalogue of priorities of President Casado when he was elected at the National Congress of the People's Party and because, above all, we have demonstrated it with facts for many years and in many autonomous communities. Madrid. Since 2004, the Government of the Autonomous Community has promoted the practical elimination of this tax; in 2018 there will be partial reductions for third-degree family members. Galicia, law on which Citizens makes a special copyright sticker, which I will explain little by little. Citizens devote their time to looking where they do well and go to Galicia. Well, here we go, study, I take it, costume. I'm going to give you a series of examples. Reduction of the taxpayer with a disability by 33%: Galicia, 150 000; Citizens, 180 000, but already exists. Reduction of the contributor with a disability by 65%: Galicia, 300 000; Citizens, 360 000, but already exists. In reduction by acquisition mortis cause: Galicia, 600 000; Citizens, 1 000 000, but already exists. Once again, Citizens sin from precipitation and improvisation and may prove to be an advanced student of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party continually corrects and only corrects when it assumes the proposals of the People's Party; Citizens directly assume them, but cannot admit them by an electoral shame, at this time media and punctual, and disguises it a little to give it an air of novelty and strategy, the strategy of banditry. In addition, in this special copyright sticker of Citizens arise a series of doubts. In the explanatory statement they say that the maximum rate could exceed 80% and this is clearly confiscatory, according to the Constitution. You'll have to see it, won't you? Or do you already agree with Podemos in these kinds of proposals? Compensation to the autonomous communities for loss of income. Should we talk to them, or will they also do as the Socialist Party, which no longer speaks to the autonomous communities? Bonus to Ceuta and Melilla. Article 23a, 99 % bonuses are left behind for Groups I and II. Is it a mistake or, as for the Socialist Party, Ceuta and Melilla for you, don't they count? The intention is clear: to disguise a measure with a designation of origin of the People's Party introduced into the tax system for a long time, which is not only introduced but also successfully implemented. It is clear that we are in a pre-election year - by chance - and it is necessary to draw attention as it may be. It is true that they have approved it in Andalusia, an autonomous community where they only approved its entry into force in 2018, where it was 100 times more expensive to liquidate an inheritance than in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. I'll give you a quantitative example. A liquidation of a taxpayer in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, 64 974 euros; this same liquidation - since he likes the examples so much to Mr Rivera -, in the Autonomous Community of Madrid is 649.75, that is, it is 100 times cheaper and already existed, where it does not apply retroactively and where there are more than 14 000 resignations between 2014 and 2016. But you didn't say anything about Aragon, Mr. Rivera. Why did you vote against the suppression proposed by the People's Party in Aragon and partner with the Socialist Party for a minimum reduction? Why didn't it compensate you to say clearly that you preferred that of the People's Party? Did he have any media electoral pressure at the time that he had to move away from the People's Party? [[Applauds]] He didn't say it here. You have to come up with the learned subject a little bit. He says there was nothing in Castile-La Mancha. Castilla-La Mancha, article 13 of Legislative Decree 1/2013 of 29 December 2017, very new, but not updated; Mr Rivera, it has to be updated a little more. However, even with all this, they continue to support a socialist government that has made Andalusia in the last forty years the most indebted autonomous community in Spain, which has the most autonomous liquidity funds from all over Spain; of the ten poorest cities in Spain, nine are from Andalusia; 80% of Andalusians do not arrive at the end of the month; they have 48 points less income than the rest of Spain; Andalusian health is collapsed and education is at a disadvantage and is the autonomous community with the most corrupt government in Spain. That is what you are defending in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] And now, Mr Rivera, they want to do it in Spain by opening the door, as we have seen as we are currently awaiting the approval of the social-podemidian budgets, the seed of another crisis. That is what you are provoking, passing the Andalusian to the rest of Spain. Citizens prefer - we believe - the budgets of the People's Party, the measures of the People's Party, the measures and corrections of the People's Party, but, electorally, they cannot say so. They prefer to sink Spain rather than recognize it and that way they go; they say some things on Monday, the opposite things on Wednesday and other intermediates on Friday. Why don't you keep looking, as you did with this project, at where things are done right? Why don't you keep staring at Galicia? Year 2017, meeting the deficit target, savings of 46 million. Year 2018, will end up meeting the deficit target, estimated savings of 207 million. The last three years, savings of interest, 140 million, 83 of them remain in the Galician pocket thanks to the abolition of corporation tax, zero taxes in rural areas. Why don't you keep looking at that? Health and social services always improving, all the contrary to what they are supporting in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia! By the way, since 1996 they have been calling for the abolition of this tax. [[Applauds]] With which, all truths. And you know, Mr. Rivera, what example do you have in this way of managing? Do you know what is the only regional territory in all of Europe that is governed by absolute majority after the elections in Bavaria? Shall I tell him? Galicia. Do you know who rules in Galicia? Well, maybe that management model is more than you're trying to put forward right now. [[Applauds]] And since you guys like stories, I'm also going to tell you a story that I've had this past weekend with a friend of mine. Names and surnames, not vagueness as the Socialist Party does: Pablo Rodríguez García, sea worker, private diesel vehicle, diesel work vehicle, diesel boat, autonomous - you will increase the quota -, workers in your company - you will increase the social contributions -, and tells me: Thomas, the taxes of the Socialist Party will affect me by five different ways and I cannot raise the price to the clams five times, that is what you are doing, you will remain the inheritance to tax. This is what this person was telling me and these are the ones you call rich and this is what you are supporting from now on if you open the door to the approval of the social-podemite budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u40	Mr. Fole, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u41	I'm done, Mr. President. For this case, ladies and gentlemen, it is for this project that we will support by bringing the changes that we see as appropriate, of course, because we have seen the deficiencies that it has and the clippings that it makes and that obviously always produces alterations. Because we have already shown twice that with lower taxes you can collect more if you generate wealth and employment. And since you go both to Santiago and its capital, following the apostle, follow Compostela, follow Galicia, follow above all the People's Party and on that path you will go by the wayside. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Fole.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u43	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on measures to facilitate the contribution of the self-employed. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The legislature had begun well, the legislature marched in a stern wind for the self-employed, for the self-employed, for the self-employed. We had managed to regain confidence in the public authorities and if you went down to talk to them, to talk to their associations, you realized that they had the feeling that something had changed. And of course something had changed. Thanks to Citizens the autonomous are no longer only protagonists of the electoral programs, they are no longer only figures and data in the electoral programs during the campaign, but thanks to Citizens the autonomous had become a tool to start the legislature talking about them and not only talking but also agreeing measures both at the beginning of the first legislature with the Socialist Party and in the second legislature with the People's Party. And three years later, Citizens here we are, we are still at the foot of the canyon fighting, as we are doing here today, fighting from this rostrum to prevent them from being given hare by the Socialist Party and by Podemos with these fake budgets that are going to raise quotas to the autonomous indiscriminately. [[applause]] But let us not advance events. As I was telling you, something was changing, the autonomous had regained confidence in the public authorities because the promises were no longer just in the electoral campaign but were becoming reality. And we have some clear examples. Last week, the Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-Employment passed a year ago, an initiative of Citizens which had succeeded in bringing some of the historical demands of self-employed workers to reality. It had succeeded in removing administrative obstacles, improving the contribution of the self-employed. He had succeeded in rooting out that unfair fine when a self-employed worker stopped paying his fee one day. It had allowed and allowed self-employed women to think about having children and to think about conciliating. And one of the things we believe to be most important was that self-employed workers were given a voice through their associations so that they could be present at any discussion table, in any body where there is any negotiation on self-employed workers. And not only that, last week we also launched the law against late payment in commercial operations. It should be remembered that during this crisis one in four self-employed workers threw the blind because they did not pay their bills. This affected self-employed workers and probably, thanks to the Citizens' Law, from 1 January this system of combating the lateness of commercial operations will be a reality. [[Applauds]] But not only that, but we also have the RETA subcommission in place to deal with the measures that require debate between the various parliamentary groups, where we talk about income quotations, how to improve quotations, how to adapt self-employment, independent work, to the new realities of the digital economy. All this is being discussed in the RETA subcommission, which will soon begin its reporting phase. All these initiatives - some are already a reality - made the self-employed look with enthusiasm towards the future; the same enthusiasm with which we saw Pablo Iglesias announce in a press conference that they raised the minimum interprofessional wage to 900 euros in fourteen pay and that taxes would be lowered to the self-employed; the same enthusiasm with which we saw Pedro Sánchez lying from his seat before Albert Rivera's question when he told him whether or not the quotas would be raised to the self-employed. It's 420 euros a year, less that they weren't going to raise their quotas to the self-employed! But not only that, it is that with this rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, as is going on in that agreement, the cost will be raised by 20% for those self-employed who are also employers - there are more than a million those we have in Spain - and who have one or two workers in charge. You don't have to be an economist, you can just go down and talk to parliamentary journalists who earn 900 euros or go to the corner bar or the fruit shop and ask them what happens if a self-employed person gets 420 euros a year or his or her contribution base or a 20% increase in the costs of his or her workers. But it's not just that anymore, it's not just the costs. Yesterday, in the presentation of the Autonomous Awards of the Year, Lorenzo Amor said: What we need is trust, certainty and legal certainty. And that's quite the opposite of what you've been doing in the last few weeks. They said that they came with budgets that went up the SMI, but that it was not going to affect the self-employed, but we see that it is going to affect the self-employed. We denounce it; we come out Citizens denounce it, the associations of self-employed people come out denounce it and then they go back and they say: No, with the income contribution do not worry, it will not affect the self-employed. However, the revenue levy comes into force on 1 January 2020. What are we going to do throughout the 2019 exercise? And when they look at the sword and the wall, they meet with the autonomous associations and they say, "Well, we put three scenarios to you. What are the three scenarios that have posed them? Up quotes, yes or no? Just as you have income above or below the inter-professional minimum wage, that you are proposing to increase the contribution yes or yes, and even some benefits that are not now mandatory, not to mention the last one, when last week the AIReF came saying that the maximum bases were going to rise by 10% and that of the EUR 1 500 million that are intended to be raised more than 1 billion come from autonomous quotas. So, what are we left with? What we want is a very simple thing and it is that we do not despise the self-employed, that we do not despise the intelligence of the self-employed by telling them that with this agreement they will not be raised the quota, because they will be raised the quota. And what we do not want is for the self-employed to be treated as ATMs, which is what they are doing in their parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] In short, what we propose - and they have it in the proposal not of law - is that the rise of the bases of quotation is the pact with the associations, and that that rise is the one that has been in the last twenty-five years, that neither is that we are inventing anything. Second, flat rate. The Socialist Party has overtly criticized it, although it voted in favour of it in our law. We do not have a good assessment of public policies but we do have data, and it is that in 2018 the growth of the number of self-employed has tripled, so I think that flat rate law is doing something right. So let's keep that flat rate, and while we all come to a solution in the RETA subcommission as to what to do with the contribution, let's help those who are worst going through it, those who have income below the interprofessional minimum wage, who are normally young, by setting a flat rate for them. Finally, there was talk of cessation of activity. The government's last occurrence is that the cessation of activity they created, because it must be remembered that the cessation of activity was created by the Socialist Party, and the Secretary of State comes to say that the cessation of activity is practically a fraud because 60% of the applications are not accepted, and they want to make compulsory contributions. Wouldn't it be easier to start the house on the foundations and not on the roof? I mean, we're going to fix the termination benefit and then we're going to set a mandatory contribution. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I really never thought that the left-wing parties would be the ones to turn social protection into a luxury product that many of the self-employed, if their fake budgets come out, will not be able to access. I really never thought it would be you, the parties that call themselves left-wing, those that were going to condemn many autonomous people to the submerged economy if we eliminate the flat rate as you want to eliminate it. We will of course be there; we will not allow it because we will be next to the autonomous, we will be next to our SMEs, we will be next to those who create jobs in this and in all the battles that remain for them to wage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time - intervenes, first of all, Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Lords of Citizens, one of lime and one of sand. We are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal in the incentive, in the impulse to self-government at a time like this - now I will argue why - and sand proposal is going to be that we are going to vote against the previous law proposal simply because they are seen the plumer as is written the second additional provision, against the Navarro Fuero. Look, before compulsory voting, it is convenient, so, as it is written, we will vote against it. To the Basque Nationalist Group, I would like to say that they do not put forward the argument to the Foral Community of Navarre to defend the Foral Finance. There are five Members here who represent Navarre and try to defend it very well. I know you have that obsession, but I want to remind you that in the last general elections Basque nationalism in Navarre did not get any representation in this House. As I said, we will vote in favour of this GNP simply because the Navarro People's Union is in favour of self-government. Secondly, because when the debate in this House should be that of the political measures with which we are going to increase the average size of the SME and micro SME, which is 98% of the company in our country, we are precisely proposing a bill for the General Budgets next year in which the social contribution of the small self-employed, which is more or less, according to AIReF, valued at 1500 or 17 billion euros according to the collection range, will be increased. We are therefore against this at a time like the present one, when we must encourage and support the autonomous, especially because the Union of the Navarro People is in favour of the middle classes in Spain, which at the end of the day support social policies in our country. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I take the floor very briefly. There is a coincidence, a divergence and an absence in the motion that the companion presents. On point 1 we agree, we are not in favour of an increase in the minimum contribution bases and, failing that, we are in favour of a gradual and progressive increase in time. With regard to point 2 the divergence, we agree on the substance, but not on the instrument to do so. We are not for the work of so much tariff, but rather we are advocating a contribution system based on real income. With regard to absences, we should also be concerned about the whole question of false self-employment resulting from successive labour reforms and from precarious, subcontracting systems and add a concern: the constant increase in the power of certain oligopolies in certain markets over the wages and contributions of self-employed people, for example in the transport sector with the Utapa platform that they know well. Our position will depend at the end of any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Del Campo, from the outset and from the affection and respect that I always have for you, I must remind you that the question of self-employed does not begin when you land in these seats, but that some of us have been working for many years on reforms and improvements in the area of self-employed people with different governments and, in particular, since at least 2002 when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs first issued an opinion on this issue: self-employed people, small businesses and micro-enterprises who, in fact, have marked the road map that has been developed during all these years, including in this urgent reform that was approved at its initiative a long time ago, an initiative that links with those debates that began in 2002. And the characteristics of the 2002 reform to urgent reform, including urgent reform, are always the dissatisfaction of the self-employed with the reforms we are promoting. That initiative you led is a good initiative that had our support and had our contributions. It is also true that with regard to the expectations that the self-employed had, it has also generated significant frustrations. This, Mr Del Campo, leads us to share with you that what we need is a comprehensive reform of the RETA. Without a comprehensive reform of the NETWORK, the partial reforms that we are making lead to frustration. In this respect, the amendment that my group is putting to you is in that direction: we need a comprehensive reform of the RETA that overcomes the mini-reforms that we are making consolidate that frustration. What should we demand from the government that it avoid and that the deal with Podemos puts at risk? That the economic and labour policy measures taken by the Government undermine the consolidation and employment of the self-employed sector. Therefore, in one part of the motion that Mr Del Campo raises for us there is a coincidence: the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage that he receives cannot imply an unorthodox increase in the minimum contribution bases of self-employed workers. I hope, Mr Del Campo, that in those points of agreement on that amendment, to launch that comprehensive reform, you can accept our amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let us go on to say that the text presented to us here today, at least its first version, was a text that was sympathetic to us in so far as it concerned less-income self-employed workers and in so far as it sought to ensure that they would not be harmed in the short term. Citizens bring us here this initiative which aims to commit the Government to the low-income self-employed, something with which we cannot agree more, Mr Del Campo. That is why, precisely because we share that interest, we have incorporated that guarantee in the agreement recently signed with the Government, and specifically in point 5.1, which literally reads: it is agreed to reform the system of contributions for self-employed workers by 2019 to link it to real income - I stress this, Mr Del Campo - so that self-employed people with less income are guaranteed a lower contribution. Self-employed workers in this country have traditionally been mistreated by the state or rather by its political class, which from its law offices has had no idea what it means to be of this condition. [[The lady]] Currently in Spain there are about 3 million self-employed people, who account for a little over 20% of the workforce and who contribute around 11 billion euros, according to the economic and financial report of Social Security of 2017. All this does not include the 500 000 domestic workers and the more than 600 000 in the special agricultural system, which we will be talking about at another time. 85 % of these 3 million contribute to the minimum contribution base. Of these 3 million, about 900 000, i.e. almost a third, earns less than the interprofessional minimum wage, earns less than the current EUR 12 000 net. In addition, the autonomous in Spain have suffered another type of evil. The bureaucratic and administrative burden you must bear, as you will know, is unimaginable for someone who is not autonomous. I happen to have a brother who is autonomous and explained to me yesterday with a certain sarcasm that before even being able to acquire autonomous status, one must be doctoral in accounting, financial and fiscal management, labor law, commercial law and in many other branches of knowledge; come on, you must be a genuine gifted or gifted to exercise autonomous in this country. On the other hand, the problem of poor workers in Spain is pressing; it is perhaps one of the most alarming issues in the world of work right now in Spain that work no longer guarantees being out of poverty. According to Eurostat data, the poverty rate of self-employed people in Spain is about 23% compared to the group of workers in the general system, which accounts for about 12%, i.e. almost double the incidence of poverty among workers. At the same time, in the last five years, RETA's contribution bases have increased to six times. Of these - correct me Mr. Del Campo if I'm wrong - Citizens are partly responsible with the People's Party for the latest increase, which was launched in mid-2017 and which, by the way, was the most significant increase in recent years. That is why, frankly, we do not understand the improvement that citizens claim to have experienced autonomous people in recent years, as you say in the explanatory statement of your text. Which country do you refer to, Your Honor? Because that is not Spain that the autonomous know. It is assumed that you want to throw yourself some other flower, which is legitimate, about the government agreement that you reached with the People's Party, but then you do not specify what those measures have been and what you have improved, what concrete things have improved in the working life of these people, because I do not think that there are flowers to be distributed here, but rather brown ones - to speak clearly - because the latter and, as we said, greater rise from the base of contribution does not seem to have awakened the joy of the autonomous, but rather their umpteenth goat. So how is it possible that you now want to stand up as guarantors of a collective that you yourselves mistreated just a few months ago? If what you are claiming is that we do not do what you did, that is, increase the base without corrections that kept the net income available, do not worry that we are consistent and the same thing we asked for a year ago is the same thing we are demanding now. It is true that, after signing the agreement with our parliamentary group, the Government has hesitated - I grant you this - and has sent out equivocal signals about its next steps in this area. That is why it must be made clear to me that any loss of purchasing power among the workers, any worker, would be a flagrant violation of the spirit of the agreement, and would therefore have us against it. For this very reason, by our agreement, we will vote in favour of this initiative if we succeed in agreeing on the amendments that have been tabled, because, as I say, this text, in principle, is nice to us. But I insist, Mr Del Campo Estaún, that the important and important thing is that the agreement we have signed with the Government ensures that the less-income self-employed will be benefited and those with higher incomes will not be harmed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Guijarro García. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ramón Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u54	Thank you, President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group brings us here today a non-law proposal that, in theory, is to improve the contribution of the autonomous, but what it seeks, fundamentally, is political opportunism and demagoguery. You know that there is a subcommission for the study of the reform of the Special System of Self-Employed Workers, where a number of core RETA issues have been discussed, such as the requirements to be self-employed, how to quote, how to move towards a confluence with the general regime, cessation of activity, bonuses, tariffs, etc.; ultimately, to converge on rights and obligations. I believe that we must be respectful of your work and take account of your conclusions, especially when, unanimously, you have asked for it to be extended until February. Today, this enlargement has been approved, because what is being done is to work towards consensus and a serious opinion that somehow links all political groups. This reform does not require a proposal of law, but of consensus, dialogue and subsequent regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this Government is acting and maintains its firm commitment, as it has already stated on several occasions, not to increase the minimum quotas to self-employed workers as a result of the increase in the inter-branch minimum wage to EUR 900. Don't forget, it's a matter of dignity at work. This is what the President of the Government said, and I repeat it to him again: dignity at work, rising from the interprofessional minimum wage which you, a few years ago, set at 1000 euros. [[applause]] Stop screwing around. This government raises taxes to the most powerful classes. We raise the 1 point capital tax to the assets of more than 10 million euros and 2 points in the IRPF to those that charge more than 130 000 euros. That is the rise in taxes proposed by the Socialist Government. They are well aware that the Government has proposed to self-employed persons that their contribution bases should not be affected by the inter-professional minimum wage, and that the intention of this Government is to reach a broad degree of consensus with self-employed associations in order to introduce a new contribution model for this group that will allow reasonable contributions to social security while ensuring significant improvements in social protection that they receive during their working life, as well as an equalization of retirement benefits with the general scheme. In this respect, we have tabled our amendments. They must be aware that the problem of self-employed people is not solely and exclusively based on assessment, but that there are many issues that affect the levels of protection and to which the Socialist Government also wishes to respond from that consensus. They know that there is a consensus on the desirability of bringing the contribution of each self-employed person closer to his or her real income, reducing the contribution in cases where the returns are lower than the inter-professional minimum wage, and increasing it when the income is higher than the contribution base. 85% of self-employed workers work on the minimum contribution basis, and it is considered by all, both government and industry associations, that the majority of self-employed are under-rated. This undercutting leads to a decline in social protection, i.e. worse benefits and worse pensions. As you know, we are in a contributory system; depending on what is contributed, then we have the amount of the pension. Therefore, for self-employed people themselves, the idea that they are adjusting their contributions to their income will also be positive in the future because it will allow them to have better benefits. In order to overcome this situation, the Government has put forward a set of scenarios for an agreement in the social dialogue, in terms of benefit to the sector and to society as a whole, which needs a system of social protection with greater protection and more sustainable. The opposite would be to condemn the self-employed to private pension schemes, which are also what other groups want, but they do not dare to say so. Therefore, I insist, the Government maintains its firm commitment to adapt the contributions to real income, as it has stated on several occasions and as reflected in the pact with Podemos, which talked about reforming, within 2019, the system of contribution of self-employed workers to link it to real income, so that the self-employed with lower income are guaranteed a lower contribution. But while this amendment takes time and is complex, it is clear that we are not going to increase the minimum quotas to the self-employed as a result of the rise in the minimum wage. With regard to the voting position of our group, we have tabled some amendments and we are waiting for what the Group of the European People's Party can tell us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon Utrabo. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u56	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I had provided for the answer for Sergio, whom we all of course acknowledge the work he is doing with regard to the self-employed, but I have to say that in particular this initiative, as I have already explained, has not been liked, despite the fact that the two proposals contained in it are well-intentioned: that the increase in the amount of the minimum wage, which is provided for in the new government regulation, apparently does not imply an increase in the minimum bases for self-employed people, or that an indefinite flat rate of EUR 50 is created for self-employed persons whose actual income does not reach that level, or EUR 30 for self-employed persons under 30 years of age, or who prove a degree of disability higher than 33 %. I said that I had planned the answer for the proposing Member of the Citizens' Group and, however, when I heard the amendments from the Podemos Group and the Socialist Group, I have the impression that the same criticism that I was going to make of this initiative, addressed to you, I have to make to the others too. Because, let me say with all due respect, this initiative has a certain flaw of substantiation that, even apart from that similarity which has seemed somewhat frivolous to us to the under 30s with a certain degree of disability, we understand that it is incompatible with two specific facts; one, with the processing that is being carried out within the scope of the RETA's subcommission of discussion, on which is the legal regime that must be changed with respect to the existing one in the field of self-employed persons and with regard to their contribution; and, above all, with regard to the Toledo Pact in respect of which, and with all due respect, we believe that its determinations are being ignored, both those currently existing in the recommendations of 2011 and those that we have anticipated. My criticism was in that sense, in the sense of saying that some of the determinations that we have already made in the context of the Toledo Pact are of rabid application to this case. They are, and I'm going to try to compare them in some way with the following examples. From the text of a new recommendation 0 it appears that the equalisation of the Spanish social security system is associated with a European social model based on different principles, among which are those relating to solidarity, sufficiency of benefits, equity in burden-sharing and responsibility in management. Do you not think that moving the contribution base away from the interprofessional minimum wage will have no other effect but to impoverish and move it away from that area of solidarity and that it needs greater funding? Recommendation 1 deals with the separation of sources and the restoration of financial balance. Can you explain what condition these new types of contributions have and from what budgetary system are to be financed the contribution deficits that you propose? He said that 86% of the self-employed are taxed on the minimum basis, and with this measure, and in the light of recommendation 2, which before and now tells us about the adequacy of pensions, we understand that it is only possible to move away from that idea of sufficiency, understood as the amount from which a pension must guarantee a decent way of life. Recommendation 4 of those currently draft speaks directly of simplification and integration of special regimes. It makes a specific reference, therefore, to the self-employed regime and embodies the idea of a self-contribution model which departs from those parameters, and in particular from its text, and indicates in text that the committee recommends that further progress be made towards the full equalization of the rights and obligations of self-employed workers with those of the general regime; rights and obligations. In another section he talks about obtaining a responsible choice of their contribution bases, with the aim of improving the degree of sufficiency of their benefits. Do you not think that with this measure it goes in the opposite direction to such a pronouncement? Moreover, in advance and in order to justify that there are duly justified reasons for collective utility for favourable treatment in the contribution, the same recommendation warns that they must have additional and specific financial resources to assume payment obligations in a differentiated manner. From this prism of management responsibility, can you tell me what these sources of funding are in this initiative and in this text? To a greater extent, recommendation 5 warns of the need for a balance between contributions made by workers and benefits received, which I also believe is contrary to the proposal. Recommendation 6 states that the assumption should preferably be applied, since it understands that employment is a key variable in the social security system and that some type of differential treatment could be understood, although - as follows - it further specifies that incentives for recruitment through social security subsidies should be conceived as an exceptional tool. I am telling you this, because it does mention some exceptional situations - older than 52 years and younger - but, unlike recommendation 8, do you understand that if one of these mechanisms is proposed, it could perhaps be implemented by stating that there were no other measures such as those provided for in recommendation 8 on postponement and fractionation? It would continue with the 10, which also applies, with the 11 in terms of preserving and strengthening the principle of contributory action, or with recommendation No. 15 regarding the values of solidarity and sufficiency which are also intended to be strengthened in the context of the Toledo Pact. I do not go any further, first of all, because the Madam President is warning me that I am running out of time, but, among other things, because this morning we started with recommendation 16, and therefore I would not be able to warn another non-compliance. In any case, I would like to point out - not only to you, but also to the rest of the amendments - that this proposal must be framed within the scope of the Toledo Pact, something with which everyone has shown himself to be alien. However, the sustainability of the system also requires that it be done from that perspective, with those mechanisms that I mentioned in my speech, which I believe are not being paid attention to in this proposal, so we will vote in a negative way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran Benito. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u58	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Today Citizens brings us here a non-legislative proposal for measures to facilitate the listing of self-employed people, a non-binding GNP to defend an issue as important as the one that today invites us here, which is on the agenda and which, of course, Citizens take advantage of to get cut I guess media and little more. With Mr Del Campo, I only agree, except when we speak in plenary. From Esquerra Republicana we have always defended all those measures that aim to improve the quality of life of the autonomous, without falling the rings when we coincided as we have coincided with Citizens, and do not hurt us clothes admit it because we understand that there is a superior good. We find it essential to work on the adequacy of the contribution according to real income. We also consider it essential to expand the contingencies by which self-employed people are not protected and thereby reduce discrimination against employees of the common system. I will give you a fact - which you will already know, Mr Del Campo, because you are usually very up to date with the studies - recently published by UPTA. We know that the self-employed request less, but when they do it is because they have a greater need, that is, they do it because of situations of greater gravity, and that is reflected in longer periods of time. It is therefore essential to legislate also in this sense and not at the stroke of propositions not of law - forgive me - insults and with more media content than anything else. I agree with the diagnosis and argument of my illustrious colleague Mr Barandiaran: all this is already being discussed, it is being discussed with so much light and so many tachygraphers as here and surely with less slogans and less passion in the RETA subcommittee and, as is known, in the Toledo Pact. More than a toast to the sun, we want serious proposals that have a practical application and perhaps a little less optimism and a little more realism. The urgent measures adopted in the Idem law of a year ago in which you and I participated should serve as a scarlet. You will remember how hard we defended amendments so that the self-employed could deduct the restaurant ticket and how Hacienda is laughing at us in his face and in my face. And that would be a bit more or less funny or serious, but it is for the self-employed, the ones we're invoking with the blinds, etc. That is why, unless we are enthusiastic about the amendments we see that you are discussing, our vote will be blank. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila i Esteve. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Movellán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u60	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said today for those who have spoken before me that we have one of the most important debates that affects more Spaniards, the debate on the current situation and the future of the self-employed in Spain, who are more than three million and account for 25% of the total number of workers in our country. I would like to begin by saying - I have heard all the speeches - to those who are throwing flowers that if there has been a genuinely committed government, a government that has worked for and for the autonomous, that has been our government, the government of the People's Party. Just to arrive, in 2011, we got to work and met the main demands made by the collective, improving the regulatory framework, the business environment, facilitating the restructuring of credit or lowering taxes and reducing the lateness that so much affected the self-employed in Spain. There were laws that demonstrated their effectiveness and effectiveness, such as the Entrepreneurship and Youth Employment Strategy, which has facilitated more than five hundred thousand young Spaniards to be welcomed at a flat rate, or the Entrepreneurs Support Act and its internationalization, which has allowed the conversion of more than five hundred thousand contracts into indefinite contracts to be undertaken. But in this legislature the priority of the People's Party was such that in the first weeks of October 2016 we put in place a series of urgent measures to improve the working conditions and social protection of our self-employed workers, measures that benefited in a positive way to more than three and a half million Spaniards, extending in six months the reduced quota of 50 euros for new self-employed, betting on the contribution for the time actually worked and another series of measures that were subsequently formalized in the Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-employment. I think they'll agree with me that it wasn't a bad start, but it's a pity that for the Top Gun command, those who wanted to storm the skies and then have only been able to assault Galapagar, the autonomous have been nothing but collateral damage. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who believe that you Socialists and your Government are the government of deceleration. I don't think so. You are not the government of deceleration, you are the government of decomposition, you are the bacterium that causes the breakdown of the productive tissue in our country. Of course we imagine that these matters seem to you to be minor issues. What can they care if a self-employed person has to pay about 30 euros more per month? With how easy it is for some to create companies and thus avoid payment. But fortunately the autonomous in Spain are not like the ministers of the Socialist Party, they do not forget what they have to pay, and I would also say that lately you are producing many headaches because there are millions of Spaniards who every night think how much they will have to pay in order to be able to work. But it's normal that those little differences don't matter to you or you don't see them, because it's hard to see them from the Presidential Falcon with the sunglasses on. There are too many tolls that we have to pay and this government will have to pay to stay in Moncloa. And those tolls, that distrust and that uncertainty are causing the Spaniards to be concerned about the threat of their budgets, yes, those budgets which it seems have already been put on the red carpet by the Members of the People's Party. I do not know whether it will be red or orange, but they have opened the door to a future budget that will be the seed of our country's future economic crisis. [[Applauds]] I do not know whether the Socialist Party is lying today or whether the President of the Government lied last week, because here they say one thing but in the papers you send to Brussels they say the opposite. You say one thing and the president of the AIReF reveals that you are going to raise the contributions to the autonomous by more than 1 billion. You say that you only raise taxes to the most powerful and I wonder if the seventeen million diesel users are rich in Spain. I believe that this is the kind of discredit that you have that you no longer play on the clock, no one believes you here or in Europe anymore. But you are also unable to assess the effects, the uncertainty, the insecurity that you are generating in your agreements with Podemos and the rest of the groups. In the face of a government such as that of the People's Party, which generated confidence, which generated security and certainty and which has been able to create 250,000 more autonomous people, we find ourselves with a government which does the opposite. Of course, the People's Party is going to support this initiative, and we will support all initiatives that are for the benefit of the self-governing, and with more reason, Mr de Citizens, seeing the self-amendment that you are submitting this morning, which is an almost literal copy of the motion that the People's Group tabled yesterday in the Senate. You will count on our support, but you have to ask them if you sometimes do not feel like pyromaniac firemen, because on the one hand you want to flag the autonomous and on the other you open the door to approve budgets that are going to be the worst for the autonomous in Spain. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. Today I would like to ask you whether in the morning you have risen like Dr Jekyll or Mr Hyde, because you are talking about defending the self-employed and you are going to facilitate the adoption of budgets that will contribute to greater job destruction, higher quotas for self-employed people, higher tax increases and higher energy costs for all businesses. Let us support the autonomous; the People's Group will do so because supporting the autonomous is synonymous with supporting the whole of Spain. But let's be responsible, gentlemen of Citizens, you don't have to hang so many medals, they won't fit into your chest anymore. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán Lombilla. Mr Del Campo, please have the floor to say whether or not you accept the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u62	We're trading.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u63	Perfect. Send the transaction to the Bureau. Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, calling on the Government to condemn the Venezuelan opinion, to contribute to the establishment of the Latin American region and to adopt a temporary protection status for Venetians in Spain. [[File number 162/000761]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u64	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress calling on the Government to condemn the dictatorship of Venezuela, contribute to the stabilization of the Latin American region and adopt a statute of temporary protection for Venezuelans in Spain. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr García Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thanks to the freedom fighters in Venezuela who accompany us today, without any kind of t-shirts, with a word tattooed in their heart for example of the world. [[applause]] The master story of life, the story of a sister nation like Venezuela is already the story of Spain and the Spanish. Today we pay tribute to the more than four hundred political prisoners who are still in Venezuela, in La Tumba, that prison at a depth of meters with the sophistication of torture; in El Helicoid, with the abhorrence of moral corruption, or in house arrest that imprison entire families. And who are the accomplices of this in Spain? I hope that, with the exception of advanced students, no one else wants to fall on that side of history that will never forget that at the defining moment there were those who gave oxygen to a drug addict, while others were calling for democracy, freedom and dignity. There are no equidistances; there are no ambiguities. This goes from the lives of people, their dignity, but also ours, their historical memory and our historical memory. And since history is a teacher of life, we can only learn from our own mistakes. We hear the sound of millions of Venezuelans crying out to the world that we open our eyes. Spain, wake up. It's your advice. Spanish, we need you, do not leave us alone with these satraps, do not serve them the children's alibi with the appeal to dialogue they have already used with the Catholic Church or with the opposition in the Dominican Republic. Spanish, we said that Caracas was not Havana, that this could never happen in Venezuela, but today the G2, the fearsome Cuban intelligence service, is viceroy in Venezuela. Spain, wake up. The door to chavismo was opened by the weakness of the parties that believed that if they fed lettuce to the crocodile Chávez this would become vegetarian. Let's see if the music sounds to them: the anti-politics; they don't represent us; the caste; the end of the system of bipartisanism and, more seriously - let's see if it sounds to them - the need to reform the Venezuelan Constitution in 1993 to make Venezuela more decentralized, so that power is not concentrated in the Head of State. And, above all, a pardon to a prisoner like Hugo Chávez. Let's see if he rings them. How much the Venezuelans would give sitting here today to cry out that we should not pass through the molten path of desolation! Spain, wake up. We must gather their longings, now that they are on their knees, piled up in those prisons, tortured, robbed, subjected to the social control of the Cuban hunger strategy to defeat morally a population so that it does not rise, so that it cannot think of anything else but food. We must open a humanitarian channel, not a channel of dialogue. I hope you will explain to us that position agreed under the table at a lunch without all the foreign ministers. Only the European Parliament seems to resist Federica Mogherini and that is why last Thursday was approved by all the groups present here, with the exception of Podemos and including the Socialist Party, a position against Venezuela. I hope that the Socialist Party will not vote differently in Spain today because it is incarcerated in Podemos to what it voted on Thursday in Brussels. Here it is a question of introducing this moral factor between what separates a narcodictatorial elite and Venezuelans. We know that the initiative to establish a dialogue from President Sánchez himself, we do not consider the father of the engineer to be Zapatero. Pedro Sánchez, in his dream reflection in front of the mirror, has to be more than Zapatero in every way: digging up Franco, signing a referendum with the 'indepes', pardoning prisoners, with a budget of expenses when another crisis comes that we don't know how many Spaniards are going to send back to unemployment, which I hope Citizens won't open the door. Pedro Sánchez develops a very personal policy of photos, from charletas elevated to categories of political dialogues such as, for example - and it is true that it is very fun and cause blush - when the president of Apple, Tim Cook, met with the president and said that they had mapped together the challenges of the future in the digital context, so, in half an hour. Pedro Sánchez is looking for his place in history, but he cannot be at the expense of the Socialist Party or Spain. Few thought there was no counterweight in the Socialist Party; neither did Susana Díaz say this mouth is mine. That PSOE so necessary in Spain seems to have surrendered, and this is bad news for everyone. That is why we are now putting forward this non-legislative proposal. And we need you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, all the Basques who live in Venezuela, all the Catalans who live in Venezuela, all the Galicians who live in Venezuela, all the Canary Islands who live in Venezuela and all those who have come here. What are you going to say back to your constituencies? That Sanchez dominates everything and knows it better than anyone? We'll see what they tell you. We all know who opened the door to Chávez, we all know who he went to visit Pablo Iglesias. That is why we ask for this status of temporary protection, in order to improve the lives of Venezuelans who have had to leave the largest prison in the world that is today the State of Venezuela. That is why we are also calling - and we cannot contemporary in view of that resolution which we supported in the European Parliament with 268 votes in favour and 25 against - for us to take the initiative of several American countries to have the International Criminal Court investigate the government of Nicolás Maduro for alleged crimes against humanity. We can't be on the side. France and Germany are the last countries to have expressed their possible support for the investigation of these crimes against humanity by the Venezuelan authorities. There is a basis in Article 7, there is a basis in Articles 13, 14, 15, 17 and 53. The prosecutor will do it on her own. Let's get together. We are told, and we see it with concern, that the Government had pressured France not to do so, and we would like to be clarified. But please don't take all of Spain to the wrong side of history. Order has already been issued against the various presidents of Sudan, Libya and the Congo, and the Organization of American States says that there are grounds - and I quote literally - for systematic and widespread attacks on the civilian population, mass arrests, enforced disappearances, murders, torture and rapes, more than 131 extrajudicial executions, 8292 homicides, more than 12,000 arrests and 289 reported tortures. What are we waiting for? In conclusion, we want to bring in two more cases: the death from a tenth floor of Councillor Fernando Albán and the aggression suffered by María Corina Machado. That is why we endorse the words of a Venezuelan human rights defender, Loren Salé, today in Spain: The best form of resistance to a dictator is always the challenge. Lords of the Socialist Party, challenge the moral mediocrity that you are going to assume by supporting Maduro and always repeat, along with all Venezuelans: So far! Not anymore! Enough! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u66	Thank you very much, Mr García Hernández. In defence of the amendments put forward by your group, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix a position at this time, the first speaker, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, who also has an amendment to defend. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u67	In a minute. It's trembling. A citizen and a PP fighting to see who's tougher. A citizen proposing to agree with the crazy president of the United States and the president of Brazil. A Podemos that justifies the unjustifiable and a Socialist Party that sets itself aside. Coalition Canaria has nothing to prove. At the time of the PP government we already called for a solution to the renewal of passports in Spain. We have taken up the issue of pensions for people who have not been paying them for two years. We are talking about humanitarian drama primarily. I know that you are more interested in the political issue. The clear political issue is important, but it is important to have a European position and that the leader Spain, who knows what is going on. And that is what was said to the foreign minister, and this Parliament should say that. And the Socialist Party can no longer set itself aside. The Socialist Government must lead that European position on the political side. But the humanitarian drama, a million people dying, without medicines, hungry, undernourished, is a tragedy. I do mine what the Ombudsman, Paco Fernández Marugán, has said, which is unsuspecting, which endorsed all the proposals of this Member of the Canary Coalition. In other words, let us stop politics, justify the unjustifiable and say nonsense and work in the humanitarian field and in a European position focused and with possibilities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u69	Thank you, Madam President. True, the leaders of Podemos are right when they denounce that some of us came to Venezuela when we want to attack dialectically the advance of the Puemita movement in Spain. You're right. This does not prevent us from recognizing the terrible situation of the people of Venezuela: the disappearance of democracy, the new kleptocracy, an economy in crisis, a society without freedom, institutionalized violence and abuse of power, a corrupt political class and another persecuted. A failure, ladies and gentlemen, without palliatives. And it is obvious that what matters to us above all is their situation because it is a brotherly people. It happens, ladies and gentlemen, that Venezuela is a reference model for Podemos, its model of society, the new socialist utopia, the well-paid mirror to which it seems. And obviously, those of us who are their political opponents have an obligation to show the Spaniards where their Venezuelan emulation can take us. Alerting about your collaboration with the dictatorship is an obligation for a Democrat. We were already denouncing Aló Presidente before you, gentlemen of Podemos, began in the political arena and I don't think you're offended if I tell you that you're in Spain what Maduro or Chávez are in Venezuela. While you elaborate effective populist discourses, reproduce your authoritarian tics and minimize the consequences of a dictatorial exercise of politics, you build a new caste from Galapagar. Others will continue to help the Venezuelan people to regain their freedom, justice and rights and denounce social failure, insecurity, systematic violence that their co-religionaries cannot or simply do not want to guarantee. Even if you don't like it, you must hear it. Obviously, we will vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Armendáriz. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a minute. The proponent said that equidistance is not fit, and I think he's right about that, probably the only thing he's said. The women and men of Euskal Herria Bildu are with the Bolivarian process and we are with the Bolivian constitutional order and we are with the social and political majority of Venezuela. That is why we cannot support this declaration of war that you have brought to this Congress so that we continue to support a campaign against the legitimate Government of Venezuela. You propose that we condemn the dictatorship of Venezuela. Curious dictatorship that has called and won more elections than you have called in forty years. But, of course, we are told to condemn, you who in 2002 did not have the courage or the will to condemn the coup d'état against Hugo Chávez who provoked others and whom you, presiding over the Council of Europe, applauded in a lax manner. We are told that we stand in the face of the serious crisis and believe that it is necessary to do so, but also in Honduras and also in the case of the 7 million displaced migrants in Colombia. But you're quiet there because those governments are friends, they're your real friends in Latin America. And they tell us about promoting democracy. Who, you, who bring the law gags by flag? Who, you, who want to make the Macarena insults a crime? In conclusion, because I have run out of time, we are also being told to promote the call for free elections. What do you want, another 155, this time in Venezuela? Do you want to export your success model? You see coups d'état where there are no coups and you applaud those who actually give themselves up. You don't want diplomacy, you don't even listen to what the head of the South American Command says when he says we need to talk about diplomacy and dialogue, and yet you are highly diplomatic with satraps like Saudi Arabia and others, as we have seen in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Matute García de Jalón. I give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is curious when the country of Venezuela has come out here and curious that others do not come out at all. Yours is a real obsession with Venezuela, because, what does Venezuela have that does not have Saudi Arabia or Guinea or Morocco or China or Israel or Honduras? I am waiting for a proposal here to say: condemn the dictatorship of Saudi Arabia, Morocco, China, Guinea, Israel and the Philippines. [[Applauds]] I am waiting for an initiative to come here to promote the defence of democracy and human rights in Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Guinea. [[Mr García Hernández delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u74	Mr García, do not engage in dialogue with the speaker. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u75	When are they gonna bring that? When are they going to call for the full release of all political prisoners from Guinea, Saudi Arabia, Morocco and all Saharan prisoners? When are they going to ask for it? Hypocrisy, a lot of hypocrisy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví Roda. Mr Xuclá i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let it be noted in the Minutes that the texts and not the speeches are voted on in Parliament, because if it were for Mr García Hernández's speech it would have to change the meaning of the vote. Mr García Hernández, you have entered into the same logic that we are so critical of Podemos, that when you talk about Venezuela you want to talk about Spain and it seems that you also wanted to talk about Spain this afternoon. The institutions can be reached democratically, the institutions can be degraded and the institutions can work to undermine the democratic architecture of a given country, and this is what has happened in Venezuela with regard to democracy, human rights and institutions. And given this situation, it would have to be possible, a broad agreement of this House should be possible, because there are very objective aspects; an agreement that would at least include the Socialist Party. And when we read the Socialist Party's amendment that regarding Venezuela says 'condemning the destruction of freedoms', the Socialist Party clearly has little respect for the diagnosis of the situation in Venezuela with that 'condemning the destruction of freedoms'. Something more serious is happening in Venezuela, and this Parliament condemns Venezuela and condemns Saudi Arabia, at least the Democratic Party maintains the same position this week and last week. Let us not summarise international policy debates as domestic policy debates for wear and tear and erosion among political groups. Finally, Venezuela requires reconciliation. There has been a serious deterioration in living together. It does not require military routes or military attacks, as some have the urge to say in recent times. Intolerance is not answered by intolerance, but by democracy. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u79	A very special greeting to our friends, our comrades, our Venezuelan brothers and sisters fighting for the freedom of their people, so absolutely besieged for so many years. Maduro's dictatorship, which has already been known as narcodictura, has achieved the unique result that in the country with the largest oil fields in the world, 9 million people cannot even eat twice a day. A country where pharmacies do not have medicines, where clinics and hospitals lack health supplies, where there is not enough electricity and where inflation measured by the International Monetary Fund for this year 2018 will reach a frightening figure of one million percent. Well, that drug addiction continues to cling to power, keeping hundreds of political prisoners in prison. I would like to recall the case of Fernando Albán, the councilman who was allegedly killed after being tortured, and why the international community and we ourselves are now calling for an international objective commission of inquiry. [[Applauds]] On the proposal of our group, this Parliament decided not to recognise the elections held last May. It cannot, therefore, be strange for Venezuelans to vote with their feet. It says the United Nations that more than 3 million Venezuelans have left their country, I will not say that in search of a better future, it is enough to say that in search of a future for them and their children. Many of them are in Latin American countries, such as Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Panama and Brazil, but many others have come to Spain. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, as of January 2018 more than 90 000 Venezuelans are among us; there are other calculations that ensure that we could multiply that figure by four. This is the largest contingent of asylum seekers in Spain, above even the Syrian citizens affected by a terrible civil war. How are we facing this Venezuelan exile in Spain? I'll tell you what's wrong. According to data, in this case the Spanish Refugee Aid Commission, of the 2,300 asylum seekers who requested it last year 2017, only 15 refugee conditions were granted. Repeat 2300, year 2017, 15 concessions, Government of the People's Party. Well, what we are asking with this amendment is for the temporary asylum procedure to be granted. It basically means that those entitled to it will have a residence permit for one year, will also have a work permit, will have access to public health and, at the same time, will have freedom of movement. That is what the Ombudsman is asking for, is asking Acnur, is asking for it by the European Parliament, is asking for it by the Venezuelans and we are asking for it and demanding it as a demand for mutual solidarity, the same one that Venezuela had after the Spanish Civil War with the Republican exile, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the same solidarity that they gave to our fellow citizens. [[Applauds]] We also call for the integration of this exile into the labour market and for Spain, together with other countries concerned, to protect them from persecution and misery. In addition, we want Spain to lead the demand for Venezuela's return to democratic normality. We want Maduro's dictatorship condemned. We want Spain to adhere to the request of the Prosecutor's Office of the International Criminal Court, as countries such as Argentina, Canada, Colombia, Paraguay, Chile and Peru and between European countries, Germany or France have done. We cannot stand behind, we must lead and not put ourselves behind the back of the demands of other countries. We also want the extension of sanctions against those responsible for this state of affairs. By the way, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, not one more sanction since you are ruling, nor one more sanction has been passed against those responsible for this state of affairs. Finally, we want to call for genuinely free elections to put an end to this drama, this horror and this true international shame. This Parliament has repeatedly shown its support for human rights, its solidarity with the unprotected, and this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, should not look elsewhere at this claim. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura. Mr De la Encina Ortega has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u81	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to devote one minute of the time I have to defend my group's amendment to a reflection on Latin America. We are at a transcendent moment, a moment convulsed in many of the countries of Latin America because we are talking about Venezuela, but we have Nicaragua, Honduras and without going any further, for not devoting much more time, last Sunday's result with the new president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, also pose times of internal and international uncertainties because he himself has declared himself to be an extreme populist right. We must therefore reflect on Latin America not only because it speaks our language, but because we have countless cultural, social and economic ties. We should all reflect and focus on this from a state perspective and from a European context. From the state perspective - I spoke before the intervention with José Ramón and I thank him in part -, there is no doubt that we, since the first day of government, on July 1, had with our Foreign Minister, Josep Borrell, as an absolute priority to Venezuela, as we have with the other countries of Latin America. Here today it is up to us to reflect on what path we take if the one you ask for, that we share, which is criticism or another. I do not know if you know, ladies and gentlemen, that three motions on this and here one, by chance or not, have been debated in the Senate's Ibero-American Commission today. Is there going to be trouble in the world? Yes, Venezuela, to use it in internal code of wear as you have done here today appointing President Susana Díaz who is on election campaign. You know well that President Pedro Sánchez - I have told you - has publicly condemned him, without going any further on his last trip: Pedro Sánchez condemns the destruction of democratic freedoms in Venezuela and demands the Maduro regime to release all political prisoners. What more do you want us to add to your initiative? Yes, but what more do you offer? Where does the word dialogue appear in your initiative? You know that it was approved, Don José Ramón, and you cannot change the reality, here is the record of October 25th. What was adopted on 25 October, last Thursday, in the European Parliament? It was adopted with 268 votes in favour of the People's Party, the European Socialist Party, the Greens and so on, 25 against and 26 abstentions. Well, that's the resolution. Look, I'm sure Esteban Gonzalez Pons, Luis de Grandes, Agustín Díaz de Mera, his colleagues who voted in favour, will ring a bell. Of what? The proposal from the Council and the proposal from the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union, Ms Federica Mogherini. I have here the transcript translated into Spanish, although it is not necessary because you speak English. Dialogue is the only way to solve the crisis, and not only humanitarian, of course social, economic and political, of brutal cuts in freedoms, but also of dictatorship, if there are political prisoners. I've read to you the head of the president of the government. You do not appear at any time saying what I have just said, which is what the European Union is asking of us, what your party in the European Parliament voted for. Here it is, take it to him. We therefore ask you to accept our amendment, which is the only way forward, ladies and gentlemen. This is not resolved by military coup or external intervention, it is resolved by a dialogue involving the Venezuelans, without interference, with mediation, as the European Union is doing, and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, has dedicated since the first day of his appointment. I can read to you here your statements of three very recent later moments in the same sense as the Council of Europe adopted on the 25th day in its resolution which your European parliamentary group supported: 15, 17 and 22. Do you know what you're saying? You have it, read it: The creation of a contact group by the European Union with the countries of the region to explore a mediation between the government and the opposition - you did not mention that word - that would facilitate a peaceful, democratic solution negotiated between Venezuelans within the framework of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way. The sanctions, the sum to be taken to the International Criminal Court? Also, but don't cheat, don't say we're going to vote, we've voted against. Why? Because if we call for dialogue, we cannot at the same time continue to insist on actions in which the ICC, through its prosecutor's office, has already opened an investigation procedure. Therefore, do not cheat here with the reality of such a complex problem, so important in which Spain - and I conclude - wants to express above all solidarity with Venezuelans and help from all areas, such as the Government and us as a party, to that brotherly people of Venezuela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Encina Ortega. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group is presenting to the debate an initiative in which the Government is urged to condemn the dictatorship of Venezuela, to contribute to the stabilization of the region and to adopt a statute of temporary protection for Venezuelans in Spain. According to the PNL, it is a question of dealing with the serious crisis in Venezuela, which is certainly of a clear dimension and is shown in a polyhedral, simultaneous and cumulative way in the constitutional and institutional democratic, economic and social dimension. This is generating historical inflation, permanent scarcity, humanitarian drama and a fundamental rights crisis in the form of arbitrary arrests, documented cases of ill-treatment and torture, political prisoners, etc. This crisis in Venezuela is also generating a regional affection for tensions with neighbouring countries and a migration that also reaches the Spanish State. It is Venezuelan citizens who register the largest number of applications for asylum and refuge in Spain today. There is also an extreme social polarization, which leads to the absence of neutral portraits in Venezuela, as it shows, and is worth an example, the last presidential electoral process of last May, which is worth the chavism to maintain that Venezuela is a democracy and that its president is legitimized, as well as the opposition to support the irregularity of the electoral process, before the election day, for preventing the MUD from going to the process and for the absence of a fair campaign, which led the opposition not to go to the process, and also during the voting day, for the use of the so-called country card, in what could imply blackmail and an illegal purchase of votes, and for the almost thousand irregularities that occurred in the electoral colleges by allowing Chavista proselytism inside and surrounding. To this delegitimization of the electoral process is added the delegitimization resulting from low participation and the non-recognition by a large number of South American countries, by Canada, by the European Union, by many European countries and by international bodies, such as the United Nations Human Rights Committee or the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. [[The Lord]] All these circumstances are well known, but we wonder what is the motivation of this GNP, which urges the Government to take a reactive stance towards the Venezuelan Government and proactively with its opposition, as if nothing was being done in these two areas. This issue, that of the Government's attitude to the crisis in Venezuela, was one of the issues discussed last week, on the occasion of the President of the Government's appearance to report on the last European summit, and the subject of serious accusations, for having called for dialogue and not to take and promote punitive measures, which was blatantly denied, replicating the use of the suffering and pain of Venezuelans for domestic electoral consumption. We share this assessment, because it coincides with the way in which both the People's Party and the Citizens face the crises of coexistence, as happens with the constitutional crisis around different national identities within the Spanish State. His methods are always the same, sticky and temptuous and nothing of dialogue, the politics of force and not the strength of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeated it to the point of satiety and now we reiterate it: political problems need political solutions and dialogue and negotiation can never be excluded. This is without prejudice to the fact that, at times, such as this, they can be accompanied by other measures, provided that they do not involve additional suffering for those who are already suffering it, measures such as those recently announced by the European Union to penalise those responsible for the Venezuelan electoral organization, with the aim of calling for new elections, and which are in addition to others already agreed in November last year and which our group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, also shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you who have instigated and legitimized the existence of Catalan political prisoners, what legitimacy can you have to talk about whether or not there are political prisoners in other countries? [[Applauds]] You, who last week legitimized Spain's sale of weapons to Saudi Arabian satraps and were accomplices to the war crimes committed in Yemen, what legitimacy can you have to talk about whether or not human rights are being respected in other countries? You, who are the party with the most corruption cases in courts across Europe, what legitimacy do you have to talk about corruption in other countries? You, who have censored, distorted and manipulated interestedly what is happening in Catalonia, what legitimacy do you have to speak to us with ownership of what is happening in Venezuela? You are no one to teach anyone democracy lessons. [[Applauds]] And from Latin America we are tired of Spain continuing with this imperialist mentality and that it is created with the right to interfere in the governments of our countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Latin American countries two centuries ago ceased to be a Spanish colony; take it and leave us alone, which we are now the oldest. His narrative is installed against the Venezuelan Government without being interested in contrasting facts or advocating dialogue and mediation. From July 2017 to May 2018 Venezuela held four electoral processes. You do not take this into account; you use your interested vision, you discredit the legitimacy of the democratically elected Venezuelan Government, as well as the National Assembly, as you have done with the Catalan Government. In dynamite and sabotage a democratic process you have a master's degree. In his speech, it is obvious to mention the obstacle faced by Venezuela, the economic and financial blockade imposed on the country. Most Venezuelans who are migrating do so as a result of this financial blockade and the induced economic crisis in Venezuela, which has, in a tangible way, precarioused the lives of the vast majority of citizens. And you have irresponsibly starred in a so-called effect, for by continuing to claim that there is a dictatorship in Venezuela you have encouraged those people to come here to seek political asylum knowing that they could not get it, and now you are asking the PSOE government, which you did not do, to skip your own Aliens Act only for Venezuelans. If there are papers, let them be for everyone. [[Applauds]] We inform you, although you know it but you do not say it, that the Venezuelan government has chartered planes to different Latin American countries to help its citizens return to their homeland because they were going through more hardship than in their own country. The Government of the Spanish State has repeatedly sought to intervene directly or indirectly in the internal affairs of the Bolivarian Republic. The Government of the Spanish State has been using international law to its liking and interest; when it suits them, they use the narrative of non-interference in the internal affairs of States to block and condemn countries that sympathize with Catalonia; and when they are interested, they endorse the right to humanitarian interference and intervention. Or are you going to deny me that after boasting of the perfect separation of powers existing in the Spanish State and opposing the acceptance of the existence of the Catalan political prisoners, the Secretary of State for International Cooperation, Juan Pablo de Laiglesia, has not gone to negotiate with the Venezuelan government to obtain the freedom of Lorent Saleh, an incarcerated student? So why don't they do the same with Oriol Junqueras, Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart, Quim Forn, Josep Rull and Jordi Turull? [[Applauds]] If you were really concerned about the Venezuelan people, if you were committed to the principle of solidarity and fraternity, you would be committed to dialogue; to the dialogue that was already expressed in Unasur and that you have so much criticized Rodriguez Zapatero. From our party we want the Venezuelan people to find a civic, peaceful and democratic path in the resolution of their disputes. And glory to the brave people! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u87	This is the fifteenth initiative brought by the PP and Citizens in this legislature to support democracy and constitutional order in Venezuela, condemn human rights violations and demand that they be independently investigated. Fifteen on Venezuela, neither on the minimum wage, for example, but it's the same, our group agrees with that message. [[Applauds]] Do you know what the problem is? That's a lie, that's not what they want. For years, the People's Party has used the crisis in Venezuela as a smokescreen to cover up its corruption scandals, to the point that today in Spain everyone knows that when a spokesman for the People's Party says Venezuela there is something he doesn't want to talk about or wants to hide and to criminalize his political opponents. You came to use the Ministry of the Interior as a mafia, making false reports to discredit us without anyone taking responsibility for it. The problem is that you are now doing something much more serious. Everyone knows that the only solution, the only peaceful solution to the crisis in Venezuela, goes through political negotiation. In fact, last March a process of international mediation in the Dominican Republic led to the release of several opponents and achieved a principle of agreement for the holding of elections recognized by all parties that was broken in the last second by a sector of the Venezuelan opposition without we still know why. The problem is not that you did not support that process, it is that you have dedicated yourselves to obstructing by all means any form of negotiation or dialogue; it is that you have come to orchestrate a shameful campaign against President Zapatero for offering yourself as a mediator and his only proposal in a race anywhere with Citizens to see who is more irresponsible is to continue suffocating Venezuela's economy with sanctions that provoke the exodus of its people, generating an unsustainable situation in the country. For what purpose? With what horizon? On September 8, The New York Times revealed that the United States Government has been holding secret meetings for months to prepare a coup d'état in Venezuela. Far from denying it, Donald Trump himself confirmed it by stating: We have a military option for Venezuela if necessary. [[intercomit with the fingers]] To stifle the country with sanctions, to criminalize dialogue, to block any attempt at negotiation or peaceful solution is today to prepare the ground for a coup d'état sponsored by the United States, whose goal is not to defend democracy and human rights in Venezuela, but to control the world's largest oil reserves. [[Applauds]] With the polarization and the risk of civil confrontation in the country, with the levels of violence and the number of weapons in the area, that means supporting a conflict that would have disastrous consequences for the whole region and for the populations you claim to be defending. One would wonder how they can be so irresponsible if it didn't sound in this tetric turn of aznarity so painfully familiar. Ladies and gentlemen, 280,000 deaths cost Mr Aznar's war to defend democracy and human rights in Iraq. [[intercomit with the fingers]] Fifteen years have passed and people continue to die every day. Those responsible for those lies should be sitting in court. One also wonders how much cynicism they are capable of. In this GNP you ask to provide humanitarian aid to people fleeing Venezuela, who cut the budget for humanitarian aid by 95% in four years? Are they asking that health be guaranteed to people who come from Venezuela to Spain? [[Applauds]] If you have not had it it is because you took it away with the royal decree of the year 2012, which later supported Citizens, and if you recover it is thanks to the struggle for universal health in this country. Do you ask to be offered immigration protection when you arrive in Spain and it turns out that between 2016 and 2017 you were asked by 14,000 Venezuelans and Venezuelans and you of 14,000 files granted 19? You're the ones who didn't give it to him. [[Applauds]] But how dare you speak in this House of Human Rights when you still resound in this rostrum the ten seconds - ten seconds of twenty-four minutes - that Mr. Married dedicated to talking about Jamal Khashoggi, the journalist torn apart by Saudi secret services? When 8 million people depend on humanitarian aid to eat in Yemen for a famine used as a weapon of war by Saudi Arabia and 20 000 people have died in bombings where the weapons you sold to that government are used? How do you talk about helping people who run away from misery when they looked somewhere else while 15,000 drowned in our Mediterranean Sea fleeing from wars that you supported and said nothing while Trump put five-year-olds in cages on the border as if they were animals? [[Applauds]] They speak of the separation of powers and voted last month to protect the President of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, in the European Parliament. How dare you give lessons from nothing? They talk about stability in Latin America when a neo-liberal, xenophobic, violent and sexist leader has come to the presidency of Brazil after they put the candidate leading the polls in jail and you have not said a single word. Lie: Rajoy went to Brazil in person to endorse the coup that has allowed Bolsonaro to reach power in Brazil. [[Applauds]] The dictatorship's mistake was torturing and not killing. These are statements by the new president of Brazil. If you have chosen to join Trump, Salvini, Orbán and Bolsonaro in that hatred international, I hope that Spain will shut you down. And to the women of Brazil, to the ethnic and racial minorities, to the LGBTI people, to the democrats who today fear for their luck we tell them that Spain will not leave them alone, that our people will be at their side. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Bustinduy. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I now ask Mr García Hernández whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u89	We're doing a transactional between different groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u90	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u91	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the need to apply the gratuitousness of the AP-7 and to ensure the construction of the sections that guarantee the connection with neighbouring peoples. [[Mrs. Sorlí]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today this Parliament is debating the need for the AP-7 to be free of charge when it passes through the Valencia Country. Once again Compromís brings to Madrid the Valencian needs that other parties sometimes seem to forget. To put them in the background, I'll tell you that AP-7 is the only secure channel of communication that connects the Valencià Country from north to south. The concession was granted forty-eight years ago, still signed by a French minister. It has been extended three times. In 1998 the concession was completed, but the concessionaire was given 20 years' tuition in case he had not made enough cash. Today, the alternative to the AP-7 in the Valencià Country is dangerous, congested and precarious roads, which pass through villages that have countless black spots and that charge too many lives each year. The N-332 in the south passes through eleven towns; it connects Valencia with Alicante, two very important cities, passing through towns like Oliva, Bellreguart or Palmera: a real danger. The N-340 in the north is another danger: it crosses populations like Alqueries, Cabanes or Torreblanca, but it is also full of black spots - among them, Alcalà de Xivert, without going further, my village - where we play our lives every day to go home, and where we count every year the accidents and deaths on our road. In the face of this sad reality, we come here to ask Parliament to make a clear statement, that the AP-7 is - and is said from this Parliament - a free infrastructure with connections to the peoples it passes through. And that is what this motion proposes. It offers a free AP-7 - neither Eurovignettes nor soft tolls nor other type of payment to be circulated through it -, a public AP-7, of state management, and a useful AP-7, with connections to the different villages: some proposed by the Generalitat and others that we add Compress; connections and adaptations to different roads so that you can access villages such as Vinaròs, Alcalà de Xivert, Benicàssim, Vila-real, Almenara, Sagunt, Alzira, Tavernes de la Valldigna, Gandia, Oliva, Ondara-Gata de Gorgos, Calp or Altea. We also call for the same bonuses that are being applied in Catalonia to be applied as long as this liberalisation comes: 50% of the bonus for lorries and one hundred per cent of the tourism that circulates on a recurrent basis on this road. In short, we propose that AP-7 be a free, public and useful infrastructure for the peoples through which it passes. It seemed that until today this gratuitousness of the AP-7 generated a certain consensus in the different parties. The PP began to sue, both free of charge infrastructure and bonus tolls, as soon as it left the government. The PSOE and Podemos to this day had constantly joined all the initiatives that here and in the Valencian Corts proposed demanding that the AP-7 be free. It seemed to generate consensus, to this day. Inexplicably this morning Podemos and PSOE have allyed themselves to table two exactly the same amendments, eliminating any reference to the fact that the AP-7 is a 100 percent free road for the population. According to the government party, the PSOE, we can no longer talk about AP-7 for free. Nor can we talk about ensuring the non-application of soft tolls, Eurovignettes and other payment formulas. We can only derive this decision from a study subcommittee that will decide how and when Valencians and Valencians will be able to use an infrastructure that we have amortized. [[intercomit with the fingers]] The MP of the PSOE who once said - quote textual - that the PSOE is the only party of national scope that has demanded that the guarantee of gratuitousness from January 1, 2020, today will come up here to say that we must study whether the AP-7 is free or not on December 31, 2019. I suppose when we get out of here you will explain to your consellera d'Infraestructures, the consellera of the Botanic Government and militant of the Socialist Party, that it can be envisaged that the AP-7 will continue to be paid. The Member of Podemos, for her part, who said not long ago that the liberalization of the AP-7 is vital for the Valencian Community, thought to go up - and I say I thought - to the rostrum to say that we must now study that liberalization. [[Intercombines with fingers]] I wanted to add to the ambiguity of the Socialist Party, the ambiguity of the Minister and the ambiguity of the Socialist Group. The truth is that I am very glad that your parliamentary group in Valencia has made you correct and withdraw that amendment, because today we are discussing whether it should be free, and that is all we need to talk about. Neither studios nor half inks: AP-7 free. And since Compromís that's what we're going to defend, that's what we've always said and that's what we're going to keep here, in the municipalities where we rule, in the Valencian courts, in the opposition and in the government. We want a free, public and useful AP-7 for the villages through which it passes. That has generated unanimity in the Valencian Courts and we want it also to be generated here, where we have competence. That is why we are not going to touch the text, and I have told the other amendments. Neither amendments that leave open the possibility of Eurovignettes, soft tolls and so on, nor amendments that add issues that are not directly related to AP-7. Let us be clear, today we vote here if we want the AP-7 to be a free infrastructure with connections to the people, if we want that or if we want to continue paying for that infrastructure. I wanted to end by reading a quote from Minister Ábalos on June 18, 2018, which said: we will be consistent with our commitments and the proposals that we have put forward in Congress and in the Senate, so that these highways will be incorporated into the public network from the time of their expiration and free from toll. This used to say Ábalos. In the case of AP-7 it cannot be out of this evaluation in any way. We do not have a safe alternative route, all parties in the Valencian Courts agree that the AP-7 has to be free, all parties at some point in this House have claimed that this route is a free route. By making my own the words of the Minister, let us be consistent, let us vote today as we would if we were in the opposition or if we were in the Valencià Country, let us vote yes that the AP-7 is a free infrastructure and that it is a useful infrastructure for the peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Salvador García is speaking, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u94	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to see an initiative by the Compressed Group, which once again shows the inconsistencies that the various political groups have in sticking to this kind of approach. Firstly, as the proponent herself said, when the People's Party rejected up to twelve proposals since 1989 to rescue the AP-7. So he was in the government, now he is in the opposition, and now he points in this direction to the total free. Or the Socialist Party, which, when it was in the opposition, aimed at all initiatives - as has also been said - for total free, but now, when it is in the government, adjusts the approach and changes its position again. I would also like to tell Mrs Sorlí that this initiative that you have presented - and I will give her a little joy, and that is that we are going to vote in favour - is also a little inconsistent. And I'm gonna tell you why. It is incoherent, first of all, because it is an initiative that speaks exclusively of sections of the AP-7, when there are many more sections that are in the same situations and that are also pending expiration. And above all it is incoherent because above we propose a series of connections uniquely and exclusively to a series of roads that affect only the territory in which you think you are competent. We are in the Congress of Deputies and here we are national deputies, regardless of whether we all defend our constituency. [[Applauds]] But this, which should have gone to the Congressional Promotion Commission or been accompanied by the rest of the connections in all other sections that affect AP-7, you bring it here, put the two things together and try to make sure that if we don't support it, we're against removing the AP-7's gratuitousness or that we're against making these connections. And now you will understand why from Citizens we defend that parties like yours, if they do not reach 3% as a minimum threshold, go to the Senate to defend these issues, which are territorial in scope. [[Applauds]] The position of Citizens is clear in this matter. We are in favour of not renewing concessions as they win. Not so rescue them, as at some point someone has come up with, because that would mean the cost of maintenance plus the loss of profits. So as soon as they end up not renovating them. The opposition PSOE - I repeat - was aimed at all initiatives, but the same PSOE from the government, when this initiative was in the Senate recently, abstained. What a coincidence! And shortly after - a week - he proposed the creation of a subcommission. And today we realize that just as your Minister of Economy and the Socialist Party also agree to go to the subcommission not to let go of a request that you are making: when it wins; you are not saying that it is achieved today, but when it wins, which means that we are talking about 31 December 2019. But just as these two sections of the AP-7 are, there are many other sections that are pending completion between this year and 2026. The debate at this time is not whether we are going to say yes or no to this, but rather the debate is when Minister Ábalos just gets there says: we are going to remove all the tolls and we are going to turn it into public roads; this motorway will be incorporated into the public network. By the way, I would like to ask Minister Ábalos what is the cost of maintenance per kilometre/year, whether it is what he says of EUR 50-68 000 or that of EUR 100140 000 that the concessionaires say. Or when the entire network becomes public, how are we going to pay for that maintenance? Are we going to do it with Spanish citizens, regardless of use, paying for it as if it were health or education? Are we going to make the European Union defend equity in its traffic routes? Or, for example, will Spanish trucks when they go to France pay taxes and when French trucks come to Spain will not pay any tax and will the Spanish citizens do so? The debate is therefore large. It is the pollution debate, it is the debate whether the railway pays a fee or the airport transport pays fees, and therefore what we are going to do with the land transport. Heavy transport is known to damage the pavement in the order of one heavy truck per 10,000 vehicles. The Socialist Party cannot therefore involve this in simply asking for the subcommittee, which is also not known whether it is going to be set up, when it is going to work and whether it is going to give it time to determine any action. This is the responsibility of a government which, at the moment, when its minister said it was going to end this, has to put a plan on the table, and on that plan we are debating. Although, given the lack of ideas, they always throw with the quick trigger, as they said with the concertinas, as they have said with so many proposals, as they have now also said with removing the tolls, and a subcommission is set up to fix the problem for us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Campos Arteseros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u96	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to tell the Joint Group, the Compromise Group that we share the fund, but not the forms. We share the fund whenever it is to achieve equality among all Spaniards in the use and enjoyment of infrastructures, and not the ways if it is to have comparative aggravations that we have already had the Valencians for worse. The minister has already said from this rostrum that he is a Minister of Development and Valencian and that what he must seek is to guarantee the equality of all citizens in access to infrastructure. It is therefore going to end the comparative aggravation that the Valencian Community has been suffering for many years, and that has been extended for many years by the People's Party. You mentioned the PSPV here, but it is that the PSPV has been continually defending a clear position; the president does so, the councillor does it, the socialist mayors do it, and the majority group of left-wing Valencians in this House, which is the PSPV Group, also defends it constantly with initiatives, as with this compromise amendment, no matter how much you try not to see it, since we say the same thing, but with a difference: that the PSOE - I am a member of the PSPV, but I am speaking on behalf of the PSOE - must ensure that you have an overall view of what needs to be done throughout Spain, and therefore correct as said those grievances, which have been worsened by the inaction of the People's Party in terms of investments. The minister said clearly from this rostrum that we were going to end those grievances, and you speak precisely of comparative grievances in AP-7, AP-1 and AP-4 and on all those highways that are going to end the concession. It is unfair for you to say that all parties have had a centralist view of Spain in terms of infrastructure, it is simply unfair. I do not know, but in the midst of the crisis, EUR 500 million has been invested in the Valencian Community on roads. You know that there is a highway called the central highway that made the socialist government, but also the A-38, also the expansion of the capacity of the National-332 and the 340 in some sections. In other words, what has been done has been done by socialist governments. So it's unfair for you to say this. It is the PP that has paralysed the investments in roads and it was the PSOE that made these investments in roads, the new airport of Alicante, that of Valencia, investments in ports, in close proximity, in the high speed line to Valencia, regarding which Rita said that he was going to pull off the train if he arrived in time; he did not throw himself, but arrived in time. In short, it is unfair for you to equate the political action of the Socialist Party in this House with that of the People's Party. As for your proposal on the proposal, I have to say that our first point calls for exactly that, that is to say, a subcommission should be made to study how we are going to maintain the state's road network, and if that subcommission, as our compromise said, does not come to any conclusion before the concession expires, the users of that concession should be treated in the same way as other roads that are not motorways. It makes that very clear, and if you don't want to see it, you don't want to have this joint debate on the state road network. I understand that, because you are part of a group that focuses only on the Valencian Community, and the PSPV-PSOE is a party or federation of the PSOE in the Valencian Community that defends its interests, but at the same time shares the overall vision of Spain's territorial cohesion, and that is why we have a coherent vision; since you have spoken of coherence, we are consistent because that proposal, that amendment is coherent. As it is also so that you decide here that throughout the history of initiatives you have requested two accesses to the AP-7. Now he asks me for fourteen or eleven; I don't remember. Well, let's see them. But let them see the autonomous community, because that's what the Socialist Party wants, that's our model, I don't know what yours is. Ours is that the infrastructures are to be managed and agreed with the autonomous communities, so we made protocols and agreements of infrastructures with the PSOE and endowed with investments. The PP, on the other hand, didn't do it. That applies to the connections and bonuses that, by the way, Torreblanca's already included in our amendment and we also called for the rest to be worked on. The PP will come here and ask for everything he hasn't done in these years. The PP is synonymous in the Valencian Community with waste, corruption and tolls. And tolls because they were the ones who extended them and those who were not going to eliminate them. I'm done. Let us work together to achieve that equality also in the use and enjoyment of infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Campos. Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. The People's Party is not in favour of total free and today it says exactly the same thing in the opposition as it did yesterday in the government. We find it very reasonable that on those motorways like the nine radials that have not been amortized the Government value, among the possibilities, potential tolls. As we find very reasonable this proposal and the fact that in those five concessions and six motorways that end their concession period in the next two years those neighbors, those users who have had to hit with their toll for more than four decades, from the end of the franchise until now, see those motorways being able to use for free. This potential gratuity is not fortuitous, it is produced for four reasons. First, because indeed all the governments of all the parties have been extending these concessions; except one, that of Mariano Rajoy, who decided not to extend them, there has been no extension. The second reason is that the party in government inherits an income growth of 8 and a half million new Spaniards who work each year. And the third, because the budget inherited by the left and voted by the People's Parliamentary Group and our parliamentary partners in the government grants slightly more than EUR 900 million for road maintenance. Because we do not accept those socialist amendments which left the road maintenance game to zero. [[applause]] That is why today we can give a global solution, not only for my community, the Valencian, but also for the first motorway, the AP-I, that of Burgos, which ends next month, for the successive ones that transit through my land, through Alicante, through Valencia, through Castellón, in Tarragona, in Barcelona, and later in the next two years in Girona, in Lleida and also in Zaragoza, as well as in the land of Teófila next year, the Seville-Cádiz. Treatment should be differentiated for differentiated processes. There are amortized highways for forty years and others that have not been. And as far as discrimination is concerned, what we propose are global solutions, that is, the totality of the amortized as well as the totality of those that are not amortized, because payment or non-payment is as important as non-discrimination. And as for discrimination, the intervener, Mrs Sorlí, would remind her that this is the first government in the history of Spain that takes a budget inherited from the People's Party - with a heading that says General Budgets of the State 2018, to compensate for the decrease of tolls to concessionary companies -, that takes a budgetary decision of the People's Party and sections it into a provincial limit, and decides that since September 1 - and we celebrate it - it is totally free in the community of Catalonia and it is paying totally in the Valencian Community. And it does so with a budget of the People's Party that allowed it to extend that benefit, negotiated by the ministry of Don Iñigo de la Serna with the Catalan government and with the mayors, also to the Valencian Community. Because this aggravation, if it now occurs - as we wish - the liberalisation and the opportunity for the neighbours of Burgos to enjoy it, would already be the fourth aggravation in five months from the Ministry of Development with the Valencian Community. In addition to the fact that on one side of the provincial limit it is 100% free for neighbours, and that on the other side of the provincial limit, in Castellón, Alicante and Valencia, it is paying a hundred percent; in addition to the fact that the purchase of 52 trains for neighbourhoods has been postponed and more than 400 for the national whole that in January the minister don Iñigo de la Serna announced -32 of those trains for neighbourhoods between Valencia and Castellón, 21 between Alicante and Valencia - and if we add that we have decided to postpone the announcements of President Rajoy in January and February on the construction with the Plan Juncker - with 42 % European financing - of the works of the new highway between the airport of Castellón and the limit with Tarragona, as well as the communication of the A-7 between Alicante and Murcia, in addition to the duplication of the bypass in Valencia, we see how the group that presents this initiative, but that gives support to the socialist government, is defending and supporting unjustified discrimination with the Valencia Community. [[Applauds]] I conclude by announcing our readiness to support this initiative - and that is why we have tabled an amendment to improve this text - with the warning I made four months ago, and to which some of your ladies and gentlemen smiled. I said that the Government was premeditating to postpone all the actions agreed upon by the People's Party in order to be able to wear the medal. And this week we have seen how that approval of the People's Party in December, consisting of multiplying by two the trains between Alicante and Villena and by three the trains between Castellón and Vinaroz, which were to have entered into force in June, has been postponed so that last week, in the inauguration of that project with the budget of the People's Party and with decision of the Council of Ministers of the People's Party, the President of the Valencian Generalitat has gone to the inauguration in order to be able to say - I read literally - this - that is, the train placed by the People's Party with the budget of the People's Party, to which he voted against - is a progressive operation to improve the lives of the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u99	Mr. Barrachina, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u100	The progressive operation is to delay from June to November to come and wear the medal. [[Protests by Mr Campos Arteseros]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u101	Mr. Campos, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u102	And that is a government too, Mrs Sorlí, which you are protecting. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Barrachina. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We shall vote in favour of the motion. We believe that the future of high-capacity road infrastructure is a central issue in the debate on what model of mobility and road infrastructure management we want for the next century. The end of the concession of AP-7 Tarragona-Valencia in 2019 and AP-7 and AP-2 Tarragona-La Junquera in 2021 reopens the debate on the management of high-capacity road infrastructure and the toll system. The day-to-day and territorial vision generate ad hoc demands and solutions, but any new action in this area should be taken on the basis of a model for the future, and the debate on high-capacity road infrastructures must be urgently addressed. In Esquerra Republicana we have been reflecting for many years on which model we want for the road network in Catalonia and how it should be managed. In the case of the high-capacity network - motorways and motorways - we have to address the issue of shared competences with the State and lack of economic resources of the Generalitat, as well as the State's disinvestment in the improvement and maintenance of these infrastructures for decades. The payment for the use of high-capacity road infrastructure is a constant in the countries of the European Union to the point that the European average is 97% of the means of payment. Germany is a separate case, and the measure is already being assessed. We bet on it. The Spanish average is 21% and the Catalan average is 43%. Citizens will have to pay in one way or another for the use of infrastructure, they can do so by means of taxes or with a rational and fair charging system that allows for the proper maintenance of infrastructure. We cannot continue with the model of concessions that serves to enrich the IBEX concessionaires, who then return the political favors with chairs on the board of directors. To move towards a universal payment system for high-capacity road infrastructure, it must be public and must incorporate electronic control systems, such as the vignette, a Eurovignette for the transport of large-capacity goods. A universal and electronic payment system allows the cost to be balanced by the use of infrastructure, eliminating the current territorial discrimination; it allows for reductions for citizens from centres far away from large networks or with little public transport service; and it allows the international transport of goods to be channeled, preventing it from being dispersed by roads in order not to pay tolls. All these changes involve a 180-degree turn and require addressing the debate from the various social and institutional actors. The citizens' debate on payment for the use of infrastructure, the debate in the economic and freight sectors on the benefits of the new system, the negotiation with the State for the assumption of ownership of the entire network of high-capacity roads by the Generalitat and the negotiation with the current concessionary railway companies, all of this obviously also requires the majority political consensus and the participation of organised civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pastor Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Proud to defend the interests of citizens of the Valencian Community, that this Confederal Group is also here to defend the interests of all in the Valencian Community. AP-7 is an infrastructure that goes through our community, it's a key infrastructure for us. The Valencian Community is a territory with one of the largest investment deficits in the entire state, and is also a historically underfunded community. We Valencian citizens do not want to be more than anyone, but we do not want to be less than anyone. In this Confederal Group we are working with all our efforts to put an end to the aggravation that Valencians and Valencians are suffering and we therefore believe that the aggravation of the existence of a toll in Valencian territory for people who have to pay daily for using a road in a good state of conservation and safety when there are no alternatives. Because after years of demands, campaigns, meetings and letters to all ministers in office, citizens and citizens of the Valencian Community we have had to live that in the N-340, in the north of our community, only between 2010 and 2018 114 people died. Even if we are ready to implement the liberalization solution from January of the following year, with a deep sense of helplessness we have had to regret 11 more deaths. And in this Confederal group we also want to remember a little further south in our community, in the regions of La Safor and La Marina, neighbors and neighbors who suffer from traffic jams, pollution and accidents in the N-332, also a road with dangerous and no alternative sections. In this Confederal Group we continue to work without delay and without stridence for the reversal of this situation and that is achieved by agreements, such as those that this group has negotiated with Minister Ábalos. We need an immediate solution that, in our opinion, without demagoguery, without populism and without compromises, passes by extending to the Valencian Community immediately the model that was agreed by this parliamentary group with Fomento in August for the stage of Tarragona. This solution can be implemented immediately and consists of 100% bonus, free access or zero fare, as they prefer to call it, so that Valencian citizens do not have to take their hands in their pockets every time they travel through the territory to work, study, go to hospital, go shopping or go to theatre, a bonus for which light vehicles are exempt from tolls on return journeys in twenty-four hours. The transport must also have bonuses, with percentages of reduction, reduction of 50 % or 42 or 43 % in the amount of the toll to the rest of the heavy vehicles. But we are also a responsible group, with 67 deputies, with state implementation and which creates and defends cohesion and equality between territories. We agree that a medium-term solution must be found to balance and change the model of the State's high-capacity track network in order to avoid mistakes of the past. Our vision goes through a public management of roads, respecting the competences and particularities of each territory. Energy and ecological sustainability are two equally inescapable principles for us. Gratitude doesn't exist, nothing's free. I think free is love, but nothing else is free. Let us not cheat on the lonely, let us not pretend to deceive anyone with the words, the way of financing the construction of necessary connections in our territory, the improvement, the conservation, the safety and the maintenance of the roads has to be concrete and requires great debates of consensus, so we believe that a solution that passes through a parliamentary subcommittee is necessary for the study of the financing of the high-capacity roads and the model of mobility that we need as a country. That's imperative. This group totally rejects the tweet policy and will continue to work with the unequivocal force of its 67 Members. We will continue to work to improve the living conditions of the citizens of the Valencian Community, as we have already done with the agreement we reached with Fomento and which was taken to the Council of Ministers on 31 August to approve bonuses and exceptions to the uses of the AP-7 in its passage through Catalonia. We make politics with facts; we make politics with observable agreements that materialize and are concrete; we do not make politics with intentions or tweets. We don't want to fool anyone, there's no gratuity, money comes from somewhere. Let us not set traps, let us not set traps for the citizens of the Valencian Community and let us make politics through agreement, word and consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Sorlí Fresquet whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u108	As I said in my speech, we are not going to accept the amendments and we want the text to be voted on as recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u109	All right, we'll take it into account for the vote. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MARIA, ON THE RIGHT TO MOVITY AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT, BY THE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLENESS OF A NETWORK OF PUBLIC, ECOLOGICAL, SOCIAL AND QUALITY FOR IMPROVING COMPETITIVENESS, VERIFICATION AND SOCIAL COHESION IN OUR COUNTRY, AND IN PARTICULAR, TO KNOW THE GUIDELINE FOR GOVERNMENT TO THE RAILWAY PUBLIC SECTOR IN THE FRAMEWORK OF REGULATORY CHANGES AND THE ADVANCES OF LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT AS STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE ECONOMY. [[File number 173/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u110	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the right to mobility and public transport, for the development and sustainability of a public, ecological, social and quality rail network for better competitiveness, vertebration and social cohesion in our country, and in particular to know the orientation that the Government intends to give to the public railway sector in the context of regulatory changes and the advancement of logistics and transport as strategic areas of the economy. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Pascual Peña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing here a motion following the urgent inquiry that last Wednesday brought us the debate on the right to mobility in our country. I am convinced that we probably have discrepancies between the various groups on the rhythms, intensities and even approaches to ensure this right to mobility, but I am also convinced that we will be able to reach an agreement to urge the Government to effectively seek a broad state pact to guarantee the right to mobility of our citizens. In this regard, we in our group believe that there are three inspiring principles that must govern the development and vertebration of that state pact. The first is the need to adopt a holistic, all-inclusive approach to the transport network in our country, and in particular to the railway network, because otherwise it will be impossible to ensure that possible intermodal modes coordinate with each other, it will be impossible to guarantee full service to citizens. The alternative model, the model that the CNMC advocates and that we have known in other countries, is a model that cuts across the railway lines of our country. We would be faced with the new major disruption to our country's public coffers; the €30 billion that has been taken away from the high-speed network would be sold to the highest bidder after huge investment by taxpayers. From our point of view, this would generate what we can call rail corridors, corridors disconnected from each other, unable to coordinate with each other and which would lead to a phenomenon such as the one they already lived in the United Kingdom. I'm asking you here, for once, to lean on someone else's head. In the United Kingdom, they experienced the dismantling of their railway network, and a few years after that, they had to rescue the network again with public resources after a few companies, those concrete vultures, made themselves with small profits. In this sense, I insist, holistic approach of the network and strengthening - and this is the second point - of our infrastructure operator, ADIF, and services, Renfe. This is fully feasible within the framework defined by the European Union in Directive 2370/2016 and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as you know. Moreover, Germany and France have vertically integrated their infrastructure operator and service operator to ensure better coordination. We invite you to support this motion that this also happens in Spain. Secondly, we want the Spaniards to stop costing them 800 euros a year for public transport in Spain. We are in line with budgetary expenditure on public services, in the number 22 position in the Europe of the Twenty-Six. Spain spends 5 cents per passenger and kilometre on public services, while the European average is 14 cents per passenger and kilometre, on a network that is under-maintained. As I said the other day, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain every worker on the railway network has to take care of 5470 trains/kilometres versus the less than 2950 trains that constitute the European average. We are the last country in Europe in the number of workers per kilometre in the maintenance of the network. Finally, I believe that our public operator will also be strengthened if we are indeed able to transparent the methods of recruitment and planning of ADIF and Renfe, so that the Court of Auditors of the European Union does not have to come again to throw our ears out, saying that we are doing it in a malicious and ineffective way for the citizens. It also said on Wednesday, and this would be the third point, which is essential to correct the serious imbalance between the trunk-radial axes of the high-speed network, in which the lion's share of our country's budgets has been invested, and to start spending them on the mesh, on the capillary part of the network, which uses 94% of the citizens. So far, two thirds of the resources have been invested in what used only 6% of the citizens, in the high-speed network, compared to a third in the conventional and nearby network. That's a 30/1 ratio that needs to be reversed, and it needs to be done in order to start developing our mid-distance and proximity network. How would we do that? We defined it in our motion. Firstly, in the area of neighbourhoods, all municipalities with more than 20 000 inhabitants must be incorporated into the centres of metropolitan neighbourhoods before 2030. Secondly, Renfe must be incorporated into metropolitan transport consortia with tariff integration in order to achieve the true intermodal integration of the various urban and rail transport services. Thirdly, we must ensure that our stations are accessible, reduce the risk of crossing roads and that they are intermodal for non-polluting modes, such as bicycles. In the case of medium-distance networks, we bet that all the cores of more than 50 000 inhabitants will be connected to the network as soon as possible. In Andalusia, for example, we have nine municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants, which together would be the fourth city of Spain, which remains disconnected from the network. It is imperative that we bet on that connection. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as I have been telling you, the right to mobility is a half-right, it is a right that guarantees other rights. It is the right that will allow citizens equal access to education, health, leisure or culture. How we implement this half-way, the half-way to mobility, will depend on whether we can rescue the private use of car parks in our cities, which occupy 65% of them, the public space. And how we implement this half-way will also depend on us being able to recover part of the 187 hours that our citizens are in the jams, at a cost of around 1% of GDP. It's a lot at stake, ladies and gentlemen. I'd ask them to show their prejudices and get on the right-to-mobility train. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Pascual. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, first of all, and this time it will also establish a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is impossible to condense the argument in just over two minutes to reject this omnibus motion, which would involve the derailment of national railway policy if applied in its broadest extent. I have tabled an amendment which replaces the original text to highlight some aspects that are key for Spain, that are in line with the European guidelines and that respond to urgent needs to complete a good policy of infrastructure and rail transport, both for travellers and for goods, as we are talking about a mode of transport that is fundamental to the economic development of our country. For the Forum, the railway requires responsible management, which translates into a commitment to greater transparency and the promotion of the liberalisation of passenger and freight transport services, in line with policies promoted by the European Union, for which it is essential to restore the pace of implementation in infrastructure, without violating budgetary stability obligations. United We can, whose budgetary commitments with the government of Pedro Sánchez go through the absolute lack of control of public expenditure, rejects the liberalisation and intends to strengthen the monopoly of Renfe, a company sanctioned in 2017 with 65 million euros by the National Commission of Markets and Competition for hindering the liberalization and free competition, whose movements around the transport of goods we know something about the Asturians, since they want to endorse the wide expiry of Iberian way, that is, the wide Renfe, in the high-speed corridor in the variant of Pajares, step before the new Ministry of Development recovers the disparate socialist theory of high-performance to perpetuate our discrimination. In a country in need of economic growth and job creation, the formulas for public-private partnerships to increase resources for railways and create jobs are irrevocable. United We can also abhor this, so these arguments and the very content of our replacement amendment are worth rejecting, Mr President, the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our approach to this initiative is positive, we see it with good eyes. However, we are concerned about some issues and we have tabled some amendments, and in any case, although they are not literally transcribed, we are coming to a compromise that we see with good eyes and will therefore support it. Our amendments were in the sense that we understand that there are autonomous communities, such as the Generalitat de Catalunya - also local entities to a lesser extent - with competences in the railway field - unfinished competences because of lack of funding -; in the vicinity, the competences are of the Generalitat de Catalunya and any state pact should also include the participation of the Generalitat de Catalunya and other autonomous communities. We understand that this is a basic issue. On the other hand, when the impulse of certain infrastructures is being demanded, we understand that there is a pact, an agreement between, at that time, the Ministry of Development and the Department of Territorial Policy of the Generalitat of Catalonia regarding railway infrastructures - I myself asked the minister a few weeks ago - which were to be completed in 2012 and are not. It would therefore be necessary for these infrastructures to be completed in Catalonia within a reasonable time. Finally, when we talked about the transfer of raffles, at that time with a socialist government in the whole of the Spanish state, raffles were transferred, but the financing necessary to compensate the tariff deficit to the operating company, to Renfe, has not been transferred to the Generalitat of Catalonia, but it still appears today as a transfer from the Ministry of Development to Renfe, which gives the Generalitat very little negotiating capacity in terms of the provision of the service, in terms of the fulfilment of the quality of the service. Who pays this tariff deficit to Renfe is still the Ministry of Development. It makes no sense; this funding should go to the Generalitat de Catalunya and, obviously, the Generalitat de Catalunya fulfil its obligations to the operator. [[The lady]] Although there is not strictly the literality that we have raised, we understand the goodwill on the part of the proponents and on the part of the other groups that also have some responsibility in the government and therefore we will accept this compromise and we will vote in favour, in the confidence that it is an ambitious initiative and even if we could only meet 50% I think we would be satisfied. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u116	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the president read the endless title of this motion earlier, I remembered Federico Trillo who, reading a similar one, ended up with an expression that made him famous. The president has been more discreet today. In any case, the content of the motion is also excessive, it has a clear ideological bias in some points and above all it is contradictory in others, as we will see, although it has things we like. The motion talks about mobility, but then it focuses exclusively on railways. It is true that railways must be upgraded as a sustainable way from an environmental, social and economic point of view, but they must be made in an integrated way with the rest of the existing modes of transport, and also, within the railway, they forget the goods. Then you make your diagnosis of the situation: in the last twenty-five years successive governments have focused exclusively on the AVE, they have forgotten the conventional railway, which uses the social majority, etc. We on high speed do not make an amendment to the whole, as you do. We criticise the electoral use that has been made of it - every politician on the eve of the elections has wanted to have an AVE to promise - but it is also true that it has served to modernize a network much more backward than that of the rest of Europe and to reach average commercial speeds only exceeded by China, Japan and France at a cost of construction lower than the European average, and this speaks a lot about Spanish companies. In any case, as you mention, the report of the European Court of Auditors of June this year points to a frightening lack of planning in the governments of the last twenty-five years, which links with the core of your request: a state pact for mobility. You call it another way we like it less, but we're not going to fight for it now. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have been asking in Citizens since the beginning of the legislature: we carried it in our programme, we carried it in our investiture agreement, we constantly remember it in the Committee on Development. The previous Government dragged its feet, the current Government seems to want to use it to avoid getting wet on conflicting issues, and you talk about it, but neither do you seem to have fully understood it. And what we want to achieve with the plan is something simple: that decisions on transport and infrastructure do not come from the electoral agenda; that governments face their investments with criteria of social utility and not of expected return in votes. [[Applauds]] That is why the pact has to be the final point of a process involving administrations, technicians, companies and users; a process in which a model of transport and mobility has to be defined within the framework defined by the White Paper on Transport, strategic guidelines and criteria for assessing investments, and for this we have included in the Contracts Act the National Evaluation Office, which now, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have to develop, and ex post control mechanisms to evaluate the actions carried out and compare it with what was intended to be achieved. The goal, as I say, is for infrastructures to stop being used as a giant bag of candy by the politician and to avoid the waste of radials without cars and airports without planes. This process to arrive at a plan has been done in other countries and we have a draft on it. Let's sit down. We have tabled an amendment to this very long motion. What matters to us is the agreement, but since we are presenting this initiative, we want it to include not only railways, but all modes of transport, and not to be ideologically biased against companies and against the road. By the way, Mr Pascual has just said that he wants a railway in every municipality with more than 50 000 inhabitants. Tell your Rivas partners, where they want a link with the M-50 to fill it with cars, those polluting and unpleasant artifacts. In any case, we want your motion not to overlook the openness and competition imposed by the fourth railway package. You mentioned the experience of the United Kingdom, but the experience of the United Kingdom was the liberalisation of infrastructure, not of operators; the fourth package learned from that error. We want maintenance to be taken into account, which does not cut ribbons and is not very obvious; we want the special situation of the metropolitan areas to be taken into account and, above all, we want the list of the Magi you accompany to the plan to tell us how much it costs, how many citizens it will benefit and what social benefits it will bring. We have tabled this amendment to you. I think we are going to reach an agreement, but in any case we need to sit down and really study this necessary agreement on transport and infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u118	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u119	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today it is up to us to talk about railways and, as you will understand, being an extremist and socialist deputy, I have to start by claiming a train worthy of Extremadura, because it is what it touches and, as I said, because I am a socialist and extremist deputy. [[Applauds]] Surely, if the intervention was from the People's Party and the governing party were its Government, the People's Party Government, it would say nothing about the extremist train, as it has said nothing in these seven years, but as we want to differentiate ourselves, as we do not want to be the same as the People's Party, we will claim what is right. Speaking of the railway, what we have to ensure with the network is that all citizens feel the same and what has caused the last seven years of the People's Party's government with its policies is an unprecedented imbalance. There are citizens who have a magnificent rail connection, there are citizens who can move comfortably and quickly through high-speed trains, but there are still many Spaniards who cannot do so. Every day that passes without the Galicians having a high-speed train is a day that they lose on equal opportunities; every day that the Asturians pass without a high-speed train is a day that they lose on equal opportunities; every day that the people of Rioja pass without a train like the other Spaniards will have less opportunities. That's why we claim it. We are curious about the speeches of the People's Party, because when they were in the opposition, the only thing they devoted themselves to was stopping all the planned investments and announcing commitments that they did not fulfil. Spanish citizens are tired of their politicians announcing commitments and seeing that when time passes they are not fulfilled; a permanent frustration is that which occurs in the citizenry and we have to put an end to it. Notice, in the last six years of the People's Party government, investment in railways fell by 55%; in the last two years, of the budgeted for railways, 50% was not executed; in the first five months of 2018, when it ruled the People's Party, only 22% were executed. Frankly, how would the People's Party comply with the commitments if it did not spend what was put into budgets, if they did not comply with the commitments? [[Applauds]] That is the truth that the People's Party left us, that is the true heritage of the People's Party. I recognize that I am truly ashamed when I see the leaders of the PP say that they have paralyzed and that some works have now slowed down. It is not true, we have promoted and launched many of the works that the People's Party had stopped. In Extremadura they said in 2015 that the AVE would arrive in 2016; we are in 2019. In Galicia they said it would be in 2018, and it is very clear that the AVE will not be in 2018, because the People's Party government stopped investing 45% in 2017. That is why I ask the People's Party not to make a fool of itself, to stop lying to the Spaniards, to tell them how they left the train situation in Spain, to tell them how they got many Spaniards, being from territories where there is no doubt about our Spanish feeling, to feel abandoned by the Spanish state. I will recommend one thing to you: as you make more homeland - and I have said it many times - it is not with more flags; as you make more homeland it is with policies that manage to ensure that all citizens feel the same. That is why we support the Podemos initiative, because we support a train that is for all Spaniards, a train that guarantees that all Spaniards will have the same opportunities, a train that when it is said that it will arrive in 2020 will arrive in 2020, because it is the commitment, and that we will not be fooled permanently with figures to try to scratch some vote. I think we played a lot. I believe that with transport policies we play a lot in this country. The last thing the People's Party promised was a shock plan near Madrid, in which it had pledged to invest 500 million euros in the next two years and 240 euros in the purchase of trains. He had only executed before leaving the government 13%, 13%! How do they want to improve the proximity of Madrid if they only invested 13% committed? How did they want to ensure that the Madriders had the same trains as the rest and had the best trains nearby if they did not launch the tender, if they did not order the construction of those trains? [[Applauds]] That's why I say we don't cheat, let's tell the truth. We in the Government are going to do it, we are going to say the real time frames, we are going to say the changes that we have in those times and the problems that we have, so that in this country the citizens stop feeling frustrated and stop having the permanent feeling that politicians, when we commit ourselves to public work, never do. That is why we defend a quality train, a worthy train, a sustainable train and a train that makes all Spaniards feel part of this country called Spain, because, if not, we will be part of each one of our site, we will defend each one of our own, but we will not feel part of a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito intervenes in the position-setting round by the PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u121	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the music of this motion sounded good to us in principle, first of all, because we participated in the model of intermodal transport, public transport with values proposed by the motion. We also took part in a model of transport with guarantees, being public and of quality, without prejudice to other models of private management that we do not deny. We agree with the presentation of the motion in which there has been a certain model of management of rail transport - because it is to which it refers in particular - which has led to overlapping all those necessary areas of passenger transport, of proximity and of freight transport in favour of another model, which is that of high speed, which we also understand to be necessary, but we do not understand the decompensation of investments that has taken place between one and the other and which we believe is a sign of a poor management model. This model, that of the high-speed train - which, as you have rightly pointed out in your statement, has accounted for 47% of the investment of public aid coming from the European Union, for an amount of EUR 11 232 million - has failed - despite having the structural character with the European Union, precisely because it was aid of a Community nature - not even to conclude the main axes for which it was designed, i.e. neither the Atlantic axis nor the Mediterranean axis, which is also a sign of its failure. It is also because this defect has been blamed on the lack of travellers, delays, cost overruns, etc., which have already been called into question by the European Court of Auditors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u123	... with one exception precisely, because what he did was to reflect that there was an element, which was that of the Basque Y, that of the Basque section of the high-speed train, which he described as a priority project and which could have a certain interest. This is the assessment that I am interested in highlighting. On the one hand, projects of little social, economic and strategic interest have been implemented, although possibly from the political point of view to others they have found interesting, and others which, by their strategic nature, should have been considered priorities have ceased to be implemented. That is, first of all, my first small criticism of your motion, and it is that, in agreement with many of its terms, why do you not support the same speech and the same position in Euskadi, where your group shines precisely for its work of obstructing this high-speed train project which for the European Union is strategic and priority? This is the first question. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u124	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u125	The second - as has already been said - why do they not simplify their proposals? With all due respect, I want to tell you - and this is not the first time we tell you this - that a motion cannot have a programmatic content, it cannot have eighteen points in its operative part. Firstly, because it is very possible that we do not participate in any of them, which casts doubt on the viability of this support and, secondly, because, even if we agree on many of these points, we do not come here to vote on their programme, and I say this to you with all respect. For starters, of the eighteen points, the first puts our hairs at the top, because when you talk about a state pact - you and all - usually try to homegenize and centralize competences that we already have assumed. Why do they not talk about reaching agreements between competent public administrations? This would also remind us that there is still a need to implement the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country in order to transfer competences in the field of railways which are not considered to be of general interest or which, even with that consideration, are liable to be transferred. I was wondering a few days ago about the intermodality and the tariff integration that could be produced, and I now ask you: Why is this reality that is established in some parts of Euskadi, even with Renfe railway services, not leading you to conclude that the management of these services can be immediately transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and, possibly, to other autonomous communities precisely because they are a guarantee of effectiveness in this respect? And so I could continue with many other references. There are many issues on which I will agree: those relating to the multimodal vision; new lines, if they are proven to be cost-effective; to avoid inefficiencies and to encourage maintenance work that has so much to do with quality; to implement safety and accessibility measures on the road and for users, which are also essential. But I repeat the same to you again: in this motion, as much as there are many issues on which we have tremendously coincident views, there are three points of friction. One, which are not consistent with what they practice in Euskadi; two, which insist on initiatives that seek to homogenize, from our humble point of view, and finally, that we understand that they continue to confuse initiatives such as motions with their agenda. I'm sorry, they're not going to be able to participate in our support and I'm telling you with a lot of feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u126	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u127	Thank you, President. From the Republican Left Group we are going to support this motion which comes to reaffirm what we have been denouncing in this House for years. The model of infrastructure development in the Spanish State is an ode to inefficiency, imbalance and political interference with technical planning. Europe has already warned how a radial Spain is draining the resources of the periphery to promote a model of centralized and atrophied state, which harms the industrial and commercial potential not only of the Mediterranean coast but of the entire territory of the State. The State has used infrastructure to make policy management of the political-administrative model rather than to make policy of productivity, citizen mobility, sustainability, wealth creation and territorial cohesion. We are sewing Spain with steel cables, said the then Minister of Fomento, Magdalena Álvarez, in May 2008. These statements concealed a whole declaration of political intentions shared by the Spanish bipartisanism, which is the real support of the regime, which is that of wanting to have a model of railway infrastructures at the service of a political project and not based on the needs of people for mobility. While spending millions at high speed, we were abandoning essential investments for the vertebration and development of the territory, such as, for example, the Mediterranean corridor, which would mean a great advance in the rail transport of people and goods, mainly by rail access to the Mediterranean ports of the State, allowing a policy of saving costs and environmental benefit. But all this seems to be worthless, as we prefer to invest in much lower performance central corridors because of the simple fact of enhancing the centrality and radial dimension of the state. Another consequence of the harmful policies of Fomento is the comparative aggravation of investments in the medium-distance rail network with regard to high speed. Catalonia is the paradigm of how to disinvest in a railway network... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u128	Quiet, please. Quiet. Mr. Lamuà. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u129	Thank you, President. Catalonia is the paradigm of how to disinvest in a railway network used daily by hundreds of thousands of workers who suffer the consequences of a disastrous Renfe management for which this government is responsible for both active and passive. By passive, by not investing in rolling and regional trains, and by active, by detracting these investments to finance empty AVEs. The poor quality offered by Renfe-ADIF in Catalonia causes very serious inconvenience to thousands of citizens in their journeys. The users of the railway network are continuously victims of poor service, suffering frequent incidents and delays almost daily. Renfe itself recognises lines with 60% non-compliance with timetables, which aims to improve by changing train schedules rather than improving the state of infrastructure and rolling stock. We have come to a situation in which journey times are greater than decades ago. This lack of investment causes the stations to be in terrible condition. In many of them, the platforms have not adapted to the new rolling stock or its compositions, making it difficult for people with reduced mobility to get up and down the wagons with minimal safety. This particularly affects the Gerundian stations of Portbou, Llansà, Vilamalla, Sant Miquel de Fluvià, Sant Jordi Desvalls, Bordils-Juià and Celrà. We will again claim, and we will do so whenever necessary, an integral transfer from the railway network of Rodalies de Catalunya. This implies the full management of the roads, stations, infrastructure, mobile equipment and business management unit, as well as sufficient funding to be able to provide a quality service; a funding that Catalan citizens pay with our taxes. The management of mobility infrastructures must be the responsibility of the administration which responds best to the needs of the citizen and in Catalonia we have a problem in the management of rolling stock and we want to take on this problem in order to remedy it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u130	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pascual, we are not going to support your megamotion, with which we disagree in many quarters and, above all, in the philosophy, in the ideology behind it, which you have expressed here succinctly, but which the other day manifested more profusely in the interpellation. Mr Pascual, we do not share that negative, almost catastrophic view of the situation of mobility in our country. Spain is in the tenth place in the world in the ranking of global competitiveness, and at European level and because of the quality of its infrastructures is in fourth place, only surpassed by France, the Netherlands and Switzerland. That is to say, we are a pioneer country in terms of mobility, and that is how we are recognized. By rail, in Spain we have reached, in 2017, no less than 488 million passengers and 19.6 million tons of goods. Renfe-Travellers transported in 2017 no less than 16.5 million more than in 2016. All these figures and the position in this international ranking have occurred without Podemos ever being at the head of the Spanish governments. They have been alternate governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party with alliances; it is the merit of Spanish society, it is the merit of the workers of the Promotion Group and it is the merit of the Spanish companies in the sector, which you have denigrated, which you have accused of hidden connivance with political power and which you have labeled as unreliable companies, and that is not fair. It has also been so thanks to the political leaders of this country of one political sign and another, to ministers such as Ana Pastor, to ministers such as Iñigo de la Serna and to others who preceded it. This is a work of all. Look, you pose a megamotion that is actually a mobility plan. This country has not done the works in an isolated way, it has done them according to plans, and the one that is in force in this country is the Pitvi 2012-2024, which has already mobilized more than 75 billion euros. Mr Pascual, we have left approved General State Budgets, which you are enjoying and which, by supporting the Socialist Government, are benefiting. And they are not rocket budgets, they are very important investor budgets, which this year devote more than EUR 9 billion to investment and which devote 48% of this figure, EUR 4286 million, to the rail sector, of which the railway sector is going to benefit clearly. You have described the situation in the vicinity as catastrophic and that is simply unfair, because we cannot talk about a catastrophic system that transports 424 million users and that has strong investments that have grown nothing less than 54% more than in 2017. You talk about high speed. You have concealed today in the motion that you have submitted your intentions regarding high speed, but you have explained them in the inquiry and you have them spelled out in a non-law proposal that you registered on September 20 of this year. You propose a moratorium on high-speed lines in this country and you propose a reformulation of those that are in progress to become high-performance lines. And I'm telling you, we don't believe in a model where there are first-class people and other second-class people. I particularly regret that it is a deputy of a province who received high speed in Spain twenty-six years ago who rightly claims that Galicians, Asturians, and extremists are on another level. [[applause]] Does solidarity bother you? Does territorial cohesion bother you? Why is this double speed? And make him look at it. I would like to know whether your allies in the Confederal Parliamentary Group, particularly in the Sea, defending these types of candidates, are informed of what their claims are. I'm done, President. We defend public service obligations, and we defend them because we believe that we have to continue to subsidize the proximity lines, the conventional lines and the metric width lines, and that is why we are also devoting very strong budgetary resources in this 2018 budget, which, as I said, we have left approved. The People's Party believes in an infrastructure policy that territorially vertebrates the country, that cohesives it, that provides equal opportunities, and we do so from an economic policy that, in order to sustain all this that I have just explained, creates wealth and creates employment. It is very easy to come to the rostrum and propose a spending too much of everything and not a single word of how public resources are obtained to sustain it. [[rumors]] Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u132	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Pascual Peña whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u133	We are negotiating a transaction with the Socialist Party, Citizens and PDECAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u134	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the implementation of the Government's policy on migration. [[File number 173/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u135	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's action in immigration policy. For the group that was the author of the initiative, Mr. Candon Adam has the floor. [[Rumors]] I, ladies and gentlemen, beg your silence. I ask that all those who have been standing for about 20 minutes leave the Chamber; that there can be no chatter in the Chamber; that there is no bilateral talks in the Chamber; that there is no bilateral talks in the seats; that it is impossible to follow the speakers. I ask you that anyone who does not want to follow the debate should leave the Chamber, I sincerely say so. You can't... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, some of you keep talking when I'm saying this. Go ahead, Mr. Candon.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u136	Thank you, Madam President. The Government's migration policy has not so far had a trained approach. We cannot say that in these months the Government has been recognized by a single and firm approach in this area. Do you really care about a coherent immigration policy or are you going to go down as you get up or decide that day? Ever since you occupied the Moncloa, you've been giving out bandages. In recent months they have been characterized by their lack of coordination and the constant corrections, by the desire to take advantage of migration policy in partisan terms. Instead of responding to the recommendations of the European partners and working together, they prefer their usual goodism, which leads them to make contradictory decisions, such as the first reception of the refugees of the Aquarius, which has a so-called effect, and to do the opposite a few days later, to the contempt towards historical partners of the Spanish State, such as Morocco, and to a long time and so on, which, in the best of cases, clash with reality and carry out detailed analysis, not of the press holder. We cannot forget that migration problems are also linked to human trafficking, including the reform of the Criminal Code in 2015 that was promoted by the People's Party, so we are talking about a real problem and criminal offences that directly threaten the integrity of people and that the goodness of the Government encourages them to continue. You have attacked us for saying that we had created the effect called. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the words of some of your colleagues, such as the new Director General of National Security, who said that the Aquarius was putting Spain at risk, because if you open a door, they will all come in. Or, for example, your minister, Mr Borrell, who said that the effect called was immediate. Do you know what the effect is called? I'll tell you. It supposes that organized gangs take advantage of the situation in Spain to do their business; it means increasing human trafficking; it means increasing the human dramas of desperate people who play their lives instead of proposing reasonable solutions. It seems that the government doesn't care much about these issues, the only thing that matters is the photo. The number of irregular arrivals to Spain has grown exponentially, reaching the record of arrivals of all time in what we have been in 2018. A total of 48,669 immigrants arrived in Spain between 1 January and 15 October by sea and land, compared to 19,134 who did so in the same period last year, that is, 154 % more, according to the latest data from the Ministry of the Interior that you published last 15 October. There are 43,463 immigrants who arrived in pateras; a much higher figure than in 2017, when the immigrants who reached the Spanish coast were 14,195, which means an increase of 206%. Last week, without going any further, more than 400 people were rescued in the Strait, in the province of Cadiz. They now adopt the Royal Decree adopting certain measures to combat the illicit traffic in persons and goods in relation to the vessels used. It is a good step, obviously - much expected, by the way - but remember that it is only one more step. If it is not included in a global strategy, if it is not answered with a coherent set of actions, which is precisely what we are asking of you today in this motion, it will serve us little. [[The lady]] Special mention should also be made of the worrying situation of unaccompanied foreign minors, since it is surprising that they can cross Spain without being recorded by the national authorities and without their accompaniment, guardianship or custody. This is due to the serious uncoordination of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and the lack of resources, since most of the burden of these massive arrivals of unaccompanied foreign minors is mainly being borne by six autonomous communities, the first of which is ours, Andalusia. Even Susana Díaz asks Pedro Sánchez for measures to address the migration crisis and tells him that he can't wait until 2019. There's a total decoordination. We saw it the other day in a debate on TV in Cadiz, where NGOs and reception centres say they are overwhelmed. The situation is chaotic, centers of minors with massifications, aggressions, leaks, etc. Not to mention the municipalities, which are the most affected by these issues, because they are the ones that are bearing the lewdness, the defachability and, above all, the absence of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Or in Catalonia, with hundreds of minors sleeping on the ground, or in Murcia, where financial assistance is requested to accommodate and accommodate unaccompanied minors, as well as in other communities such as Valencia, Madrid, Basque Country, etc. Juvenile care centres cannot be improvised, they must be equipped with human and material means, since unaccompanied minors are a vulnerable group that must be protected with maximum guarantees. Last Friday they adopted a series of measures to respond to the situation of the MENA, but this country does not just need urgent measures every Friday. Spain needs a comprehensive and useful strategy, and the children who suffer from this drama also need that comprehensive and useful strategy. In the face of a drama such as immigration, you do not serve the bandages, ladies and gentlemen, as you have been giving since you started with this government of occupation; it serves a responsible and global response that thinks of those who suffer this drama, of those people who play their lives, of Spain's responsibility to its European partners, of avoiding criminal acts such as trafficking in human beings, and of the reasons that give rise to and provoke these dramas. As for the amendments you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, be serious. We will not accept them, they put the same thing as us but with their words or with the technical reports that send them. This motion urges the Government to take the State responsibility that this matter deserves, so we call for the vote in favour. Gentlemen of the PSOE, make a reflection before so much discontrol, before so much demand. For the sake of Spain, and with all due respect, call elections now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Candon Adam. For the defence of the amendment made by your group, Mr Campuzano i Canades is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had to set our position on this motion solely on the basis of the text that the Group of the European People's Party offers us, we could hardly oppose it. The content of the motion is correct, but if one listens to the speech of the spokesman for the People's Group and analyzes the positions that the People's Group has been holding since it is in opposition to migration, then there is concern. There is concern about this speech because, instead of taking a responsible attitude to perhaps one of the main State policies such as immigration policy, the People's Party has decided almost from the moment of zero in this matter to place itself in the discourse of exaggeration of facts and in the transmission of more concern to the citizens of which it was strictly necessary. Furthermore, the People's Party seems to forget that the increase in migratory flows and pressure in the Strait of Gibraltar and in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla began long before the change of Government. It is therefore not serious to attribute to the present Government the situation on the southern shores of the peninsula. And if we had to be alarmed about some issue in migration policy we should be alarmed and outraged by the deaths of 3,000 people in the Mediterranean every year; that should be part of our indignation. These are arguments that we will take into account when setting our position. But there are also the elements of the amendment that we have made to them. Firstly, we must recover the fund for policies for the reception and integration of immigrants. It was a fund created in 2009 if I remember correctly, in times of the Zapatero Government, and that with the arrival of the crisis the People's Government suppressed. It is necessary to recover this instrument, which allows autonomous communities and municipalities to develop policies of reception and integration, which are essential in the management of migration flows. Secondly, the European resources of the asylum, migration and refuge fund must be allocated to the autonomous communities that manage this policy. We are living these days with discrimination towards Catalonia, for example, the management of the flow of unaccompanied minors. There are resources coming from Europe that must also be invested in these integration and reception policies. Finally, we are awaiting a reform of the regulation to combat the irregularity that has occurred, one of the main consequences of the mismanagement of the Government's migration policy during these years. Such reform is essential. If the People's Party accepts our amendments, it will have our support and, if it does not, it will not have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u140	I will not intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u141	Perfect. Thank you very much. Mrs Alconchel Gonzaga has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are striving to present initiatives full of incendiary expressions, full of alarmist falsehoods, and that is why we have tabled an amendment from responsibility because we try to reach agreements on this matter of state, but you reject it because the only thing you are looking for is confrontation at any cost. They talk of bandages and bandages is to move from the right to the extreme right, bandages is to say that 50 million people come to invade us and immediately take the picture with migrants who have just arrived in our country using suffering without indecent. There has already been an increase in migratory flows with you in the Government. Different international agencies and Frontex warned that the closure of other routes was causing an increase in the arrival at our shores, but what did the People's Party do in the government? Nothing, they only saw irregular immigration very biasedly in the 2013 National Security Strategy as a risk and a threat to the security of this country. In practice, human and technical resources have decreased - and I take advantage of it to recognize the great work of police, civilian guards, NGOs and other people working on the border and on our coasts -, they have not coordinated with other States to properly channel migration flows, they have jibarized funds for cooperation and humanitarian aid, they have charged the Fund for the reception and integration of immigrants and they have convened the last Sectoral Conference on Immigration in 2015 and that is where you really left autonomous communities and municipalities to their fate, and that is not to mention the non-compliance with all asylum commitments. They're talking about the effect called. The only dangerous call is that of his party to xenophobia, populism and extremism, casting falsehoods and generating alarm. [[Applauds]] This country is supportive and tolerant, and you are committed to radicalizing your discourse towards the far right, lighting a very dangerous wick. Read Frontex's reports and there you will see how many factors influence migratory flows. A person takes years to reach our borders fleeing from conflicts and humanitarian catastrophes, most of whom are trafficked and what is, therefore, a flight effect of those humanitarian dramas. But you use an unscrupulous humanitarian gesture like that of the Aquarius to attack the government. They speak of unaccompanied minors, which is precisely a priority for this Government, which has approved a fund of 40 million to strengthen the resources of the autonomous communities in the care, reception and integration of children. Let's see if you, gentlemen of the PP, convince the autonomous communities where you govern to assume your responsibility, that that's what Andalusia and its president are demanding because it's not a question of voluntarism, it's a matter of responsibility for all the autonomous communities, not just those that by their geographical location are gateways. With the socialist government, we finally have again migration policies in this country from responsibility, respect for human rights and strict law enforcement; at last, we have a socialist president who leads matters in the European Union, who has so much to say in this area, who brings solutions and who, in addition, receives public recognition from the Union for this work. The Government works for safe, orderly and legal migration, promoting cooperation and dialogue with countries of origin and transit, reaching agreements with border countries for border control, and addresses this phenomenon from a comprehensive, multilateral approach, reaching agreements for the fight against mafia trafficking in human beings. We work on the safe channels of migration and we work for the reception and integration of the people who can legally stay in our country, while at the same time we are committed to development cooperation. Do you know the difference between the Socialist Party and the People's Party? That the government defend the values that constitute the pillars of European construction and its development while you embrace the discourses of the extreme radical, xenophobic, dangerous right that proliferates by other countries of the European Union and that already has name and organization in this country. We demand that they be responsible, that they abandon false and alarmist discourse and that they support the Government in this matter of State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alconchel Gonzaga. Mr Legarda has the floor at the time of the Basque Parliamentary Group's fixing of positions. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u144	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group is presenting a motion on migration policies urging the Government to adopt a series of measures which, in principle, seem obvious by their general nature and which apparently should not produce rejection, but if we separate from the apparent and deepen it a little further, the issue acquires another nuance, for in politics, as in other life orders, it is just as important what is said, who says it and with what intent does it. Thus, if the Government is urged to do something, it is because it is its own that it is not doing it. The motion calls for the implementation of a series of measures that are already being undertaken with greater or lesser intensity and success. It also draws attention to the fact that it is the People's Parliamentary Group that urges the conduct of actions in which it was not minimally diligent while governing, which leads us to infer that its motivation is now palmarially partisan on an issue such as migration crises, in which the policies to address them must be shared and surpassing approaches in which the particular calculation is the guiding thread. We face a structural problem of enormous complexity in which there is above all human pain and whose origin derives from an economic model in the third world based on inequality and generating poverty and exodus to regions where a better way of life plays as a vital project. And here we must add the climate crises and their famines, armed conflicts and other causes that anoint economic-based migration movements with those seeking refuge and asylum that are difficult to separate as the causes of granting asylum and refuge expand; migratory movements that demand common, non-unilateral responses, because, as we see day by day in the West and Europe, they have divisive potential for our societies by exciting xenophobic and confrontational responses, as the President of the Government pointed out last week in this House. In this respect, the framework within which we must tackle this issue is that of the European Union, both for the establishment of a common asylum policy - and, if it is not possible, for enhanced cooperation between the countries that are willing to do so - and for so-called economic migration, in a rethinking of the return directive on illegal economic immigration and political cooperation for security and development with Africa, as the origin and transit of most of these flows of movement. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said that no progress is being made in these areas and is being made both within the Union and in the control of the Union's external borders, as well as in the fight against migrant trafficking networks. In this context, the motion of the People's Parliamentary Group is not understood, as it is still a disfigurement of reality, of what is really happening, and without the fact that it means complacency with the Government in this matter, as much work is ahead of us. Thus, we are awaiting the development of paragraph 2 of the tenth additional provision of the Aliens Act as regards hot returns. We are also awaiting the general development of this same Aliens Act; the establishment of legal and safe routes, so that refuge and asylum can be sought in embassies and consulates, avoiding inhumane dangers to their applicants; greater support for NGOs, which save lives in the Mediterranean, where it is already the world's deadliest border; a review of the Union's agreements with Libya, since their action with migrants does not meet minimum standards of respect for human rights, as the international and non-State humanitarian aid and defence organizations inform us day by day; the regulation of those economic migrants who have contracts of employment, as Portugal has recently done, or coordination policies with respect to unaccompanied minors, in order not only to finance in part the autonomous communities that host them, but also to establish quotas between the autonomous communities, which are pending, and the same as we propose for the relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers between the member countries of the Union. Finally - I am finalizing, Madam President - there is much work to be done, but from there to present a motion such as the debate there is a long stretch, because it is also not true that nothing is being done or that what is done can be described as bandages, lack of direction, tumbles, political marketing, erratic activity, populism, demagogy, improvisations and another series of expressions based on exaggeration and on what is not true. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems a lie that the People's Party, which has been in the government until a few months ago, is bringing us today this motion as a result of urgent questioning about migration policy when in all the years of its government it has done nothing but implement an alien law that only benefited big capital. The first cause of emigration to Europe is the permanent expoliation of natural resources, which leave countries originating in immigrants in poverty and war on the part of European capitals. Therefore, the problem is not solved by putting fences, however high they may be, or armed armies to the teeth at the borders, or by paying third countries to get us away from the problem. I will refer to the immigration situation that is already here, which represents a lot of people who are already part of our citizenship and who have been crushed and will continue to be so if we do not put an end to the Aliens Act. Because the People's Party, contrary to what it says, allowed immigration, but with the Aliens Act, by not providing papers or doing it late, badly and never, kept it in the submerged economy, working from sun to sun with wages of misery. And who benefits from this? The big capital, which has cheap labor and no rights. And who gets hurt? The State, which we are all, because no one pays Social Security or Finance. This Aliens Act, the People's Party, has been amending it to its liking, as it has increasingly placed obstacles on immigrants not being able to regularize their administrative situation. We have gone from normal, rapid and accessible procedures to obstacles such as the non-recognition of bilateral treaties with other countries; limitations on the number of daily files that caused huge night queues to obtain quotas; procedures for family reunification with extreme requirements, which made them humanly impossible to access; delays of months for obtaining appointments, as well as years for their favorable resolution. When we finally threw them out of the Government, the status of their immigration policy was: requests for appointments of aliens only on the Internet with the systems always blocked; residences linked to the employment situation, so that when the job was lost automatically the same was lost; generalization of the cases called undocumented occurred, that is, after having been resident for many years some accidental incident was sought in previous years and the person and his whole family lost their residence and became again undocumented or had to leave the country overnight. As for the application for nationality, Latin Americans, who by law need two years to obtain it, hopefully do so in four or five. The wait for a resolution that started being one year, today the majority of unsolved applications take seven or eight years. And the worst thing about nationality is that if it is a free process, it becomes a payment and, in addition, adding unnecessary and irritating exams, another round-up business that did not ensure the reduction of resolution deadlines either. All this was being perpetrated while a media campaign presented immigration as the cause of all the evils of mankind. This prevented the real culprits from being sought for cuts, lack of jobs, housing, etc., and created an unfavorable public opinion about the phenomenon and also towards migrants. But everyone knows that this is not true and that even today new social security contributors are needed if we want to ensure pensions and their permanent equality with the CPI. We propose some measures that can already be implemented: regularizing undocumented workers who already live in the territory; granting them a residence and work permit without contract; eliminating the three years of waiting for the application of the first residence card; speeding up and facilitating family reunification procedures; disengaging the residence permit from the employment situation; eliminating the possibility of indoctrination; improving and expediting access to nationality and eliminating fees and examinations; eliminating immediately detention centres for foreigners, CIE; granting the right to vote to foreigners with more than five years of residence and not linking it to reciprocity agreements. These are solutions to improve migration policy. I end with the saying of the street: The Aliens Act kills people every day; prison, CIE, raids and borders, this is how European wealth is built. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u148	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that when you saw your motion, it seemed that one could expect or anticipated that in your speech you would go a little further and be somewhat pro-active. The truth is that they have limited themselves to making the same simplistic debate, the same debate we have always been listening to in this House for a long time, both when they were in the government and since the opposition, and it seems to me to be a pity. And it's a shame because you, on the responsible criterion, seem to have nothing to say. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a drama. We are talking about a drama of human beings, which I believe we all shrink our hearts every time we have to see that Mediterranean, which is an countless tomb of human beings. I would like this debate to run away from the flaming rhetoric, from the toxic discourse, but I see that neither you nor, on the other hand, the Socialist Party come to offer anything other than the usual: how much you; how much I. You are throwing numbers of people at the head, making opportunistic, recurring announcements, but in the end neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party have a real solution of the future and courageous to deal with the tragedy of migration. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time and with your old and expired debates, only the mafias who trade with people - they alone are the ones who are winning - win, and in the face of that, nothing new. In the face of this frentist debate, from Citizens we would like to propose a modern approach that represents a genuine state policy. The Socialist Party tells us that they are doing state policy with migration. Where is that state policy? Because for me state policy is the policy that is agreed with the rest, not the policy that expects a follow-up from the rest of the parliamentary groups. Where have your calls to the consensus of the rest of the parliamentary groups been? Who have you talked to to design that state policy? I say this to you: with no one, because you do not make a narrative responsible for the problem of migration right now. Faced with this lack of model that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have not faced for years on the migration debate, in the face of this reactive policy and without any planning, we want to propose to you an active debate, a pro-active debate, a debate that really talks about facilitating integration and that favors migration in order to bring out talent, because in this country external talent is very necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to design a system that contributes to the sustainability of our pensions and the welfare state, and we do not see migrants as a problem, which is what you have brought here, we see them as an opportunity. Migration has to be an opportunity for this country - real migration - and I believe that the issue is to focus work and planning above one another's goodism and above the empty and improvised gestures of the others. We want a system based on law enforcement and law enforcement that is essential for migration policy to be effective. I propose to combine two values that are key to us: responsibility and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity, because it is the policy that is most faithful to the liberal values that exist. Is there anything more liberal than the dignity of the human being? Is there anything you consider more liberal than the dignity of people? I believe that Spain has proved to be a country of solidarity. He has shown it in the past and shows it in the present. We do not want people who play their lives on a journey full of dangers that only the mafia take advantage of do not have the opportunity to see that one can be supportive of them, because this country needs to show that solidarity. And responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, because without responsibility in the end we put our country's cohesion at risk. We have the close example of Italy, where you are already seeing how migrations are the food of that xenophobic populism. We do not want this to happen in our country, because our country is not; our country is a country of solidarity. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a new policy, a courageous policy, a modern policy - not like the one you are talking about - a policy that is based on several pillars, one of which is legal immigration, a controlled immigration, channelled through a point system, as has been done for example in Canada; a liberal model that, by the way, has been successful in properly managing migration. I am talking about a model where there is a short road to the integration of these migrants and where, in addition, we prevent illegal immigration at source, an issue essential for the maintenance of effective policies; a model with an effective system of significant return, return of irregular migrants, from the law and with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of Spain as a leader in European migration policies must finally be enhanced. We didn't hear any of that. This is a courageous debate that I propose to you. At some point, I would like this government to really talk to this parliamentary group, and I hope that it will also talk to others about migration, to do so courageously and modernly; and not, as always, to throw the mess at each other. That's old enough, that's the past. Migrants do not need to go back to that past. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I give the floor to Mr. Exposito Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u150	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, it is said topically that Parliament is the home of the word, but during the long years in which the gap that separates citizens from democratic institutions has been widened, Parliament has often become the place where the word has been devalued. Words in politics are a disputed territory. Politics consists on many occasions, in fact, in the struggle to impose the meaning that one desires on the terms that form a common sense, but the strip and loosens by giving content to vital words such as security, legality or order has sometimes reached the extreme of turning these common words into political lies. We hear about security from governments that inflict pain on citizens and call for an order to destroy social consensus, dividing common people between friends and enemies. If there is a mandate that we have received from the 15-M, from the feminist movement, from the citizen movements that demand us to rebuild the institutions, that mandate is to give a real meaning to words like democracy, and in the debate that now affects us, in the discussion on migration policies, security, regularity, order, responsibility, solidarity or cooperation are a battlefield between two irreconcilable extremes, between lies and rights. The People's Party's motion on government action in migration policy is an example of how the right when radicalised in Spain, Europe and elsewhere in the world implements vital issues such as immigration or public security with the same way of operating: firstly, a real problem is identified - in this case, the increase in migratory flows and the lack of reception policies -; secondly, that problem is isolated from more general circumstances and is amplified to generate alarm by insufficient or directly false information, for example, the ghost of the effect called or the statements of a Pablo Casado - it is not possible for Spain to absorb millions of Africans -, building a threatening image of an absurd invasion of millions of undocumented people. The aim is nothing other than to oppose real, false solutions that run counter to respect for rights and the strengthening of democracy. More rights and more democracy are the conditions necessary to build us as a cohesive and fearless community. The problems that the right-wing tool when radicalized, however, can be solved through reasonable, inclusive and guaranteed public policies. Two ideas in particular form a topic that is being repeated recently when they want to justify even more aggressive and anti-rights migration policies. The first idea is the insistence that own migration policies cannot be expanded without prior coordination with the European Union and a comprehensive plan for Africa. This in his motion means fortifying our borders in exchange for a toast to the sun. What European coordination is the People's Party talking about if we in this House reproach two ministers of the previous government for failing to comply with the agreements on the relocation of refugees entered into with Europe? [[Applauds]] And a government whose president, Mariano Rajoy, enthusiastically defended the infamous agreement with Turkey to keep Syrian refugees at bay. What comprehensive plan do you propose for Africa if for a decade the Spanish cooperation policy has deteriorated? There have been 55% cuts in seven years to push Spain's Official Development Assistance to an exceptional situation among the countries in our environment, below 0.2% since 2012. Over the past ten years, as a result of austerity policies, our funding for humanitarian aid, education for development and global citizenship and agreements with non-governmental organizations for development has plummeted. The second idea is that which expresses different variations of 'we first' or 'we first defend our own'. I'm going to tell you, to conclude, a story. A few days ago the number two of the People's Party, Teodoro García Aegean, blamed the mayor of Barcelona for not having avoided the terrorist attacks that took place in our city. On 12 February 2013, a popular legislative initiative on decent housing was discussed in this Chamber by nearly 1.5 million citizens of our country. It was Teodoro García Aegean who came up to this very rostrum of speakers to explain to the spokespersons of the initiative that the People's Party was going to press the button of destruction. Among the spokespersons of the initiative to which he went up there, from this very rostrum, among the public was precisely the current mayor of Barcelona, and that detonation that the People's Party provoked to the suffering of thousands of families in our country. It was then the hundreds of citizens who fought for the right to housing and it was the dozens and dozens of men and, above all, immigrant women from Latin America who came out to defend our compatriots from a violent wave of evictions. [[Applauds]] That is what you did for ours at the moment of truth. That means for the right, when it becomes xenophobic, 'our first', to stand by the powerful to exert force against the weak. I'm done, President. The government's lack of coordination in migration policies has us, this Confederal Parliamentary Group, among discontented and irritated. We are not going to be lukewarm about the negligence of this Government; and of course we need major agreements on migration policies, but these agreements have to be made on the basis of restoring the democratic truth to the words security, regularity, solidarity, order and rights. In the meantime, because your motion means the opposite of what you say and because of the respect for the mandate we have received to restore a true meaning to important words, we are going to vote against it today. One final question on the use of the word bonanism. Goodness is the word that Salvini constantly uses to justify his aggressive policy against immigrants. [[Applauds]] Do you know, Mr. Gutiérrez, what the decent Italian people answer? I'm not a good guy, you're a racist. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Prieto Exposito. Mr Candon Adam, for the sole purpose of accepting the amendments or not, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u152	That of the Socialist Party does not, and that of the addition of the PDECAT, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u154	We move on to the agenda item on the request for an extension of the deadline of four months for the adoption of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the accident at flight JK 5022 from Spanair. This agreement is adopted without debate and will be put to the vote at the end of this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u155	We come to the new point which we have included concerning the opinion of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary [[formerly known as the proposed Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, partial reform of the licensing and licensing regime]] In order to defend the particular amendments and votes made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position this time, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, please, shall we remain silent?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u157	Thank you, President. When we talk about the Judicial Power in Spain we lack a photograph, the photograph of the democratic transition. And I explain: we all remember that famous photo of Dolores Ibarruri, La Passionaria, presiding over the Age Table of this Congress after the first legislative elections in 1977; photography that became an icon of the passage to a new democratic situation in the Legislative Power. We all remember also the photograph of Felipe González when he took over Calvo Sotelo as president of the government; a photograph that also became an icon of democratic normality in the executive branch. But I ask you, that photograph in the Judiciary, where is it? What would that be? I don't think we have it. And for this we should go to the root, we should start, even if timidly, to understand that a renewal of the concepts, of the ideas on which our Judicial Power has been based, especially in its relationship with the public, with citizenship is necessary. The correlation of current parliamentary forces allows nothing more than the very timid steps that have been taken in the reform that we are now debating, a reform that began with a regime of permits and licences, which has transcended that title and has come to more things that aim at at least to remove the rarity, hierarchical and opaque conception that had clearly presided over the General Council of the Judiciary, and which is evident on the street. That is why we welcome the fact that this reform addresses very important issues such as that the full Council assumes greater powers and the standing committee ceases to be an omnibus body with competitive views on others. It is also commendable that all the members, without distinction, have exclusive dedication and rotate for at least one year by the standing commission, or that the judicial memory includes data that provides transparency to the president's performance and expenses and vowels. Similarly, the use of co-official languages in justice is reported. In short, we have taken, as I say, timid steps towards a more transparent, more democratic judiciary in its internal and external functioning and more rooted in territorial plurality. A little has been achieved, more should be done; but in any case, as I say, this progress will be supported and Compromís will vote in favour of the opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u159	Thank you, Madam President. In this debate, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by reminding Oriol Junqueras and Joaqin Forn. This week it is going to be a year that they are unjustly imprisoned, and in a debate on the General Council of the Judiciary we could not avoid that reality. [[applause]] It is an injustice that is projected in Catalan society with the conviction of many citizens that in this matter there is no justice, but there is revenge. What is needed to regain the confidence of many citizens in the Spanish judicial system is that this absurd process, which will surely be again news this week, with the presentation of the writings of the Office of the Attorney-General and the Attorney-General of the State, ends in the acquittal of the persons accused today. We also hope that this temporary detention, which is being extended in an absolutely unacceptable manner, will end at once and that all political prisoners will be able to enter the disgraceful trial under way. Having made these considerations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and in connection with this bill, we must say that it is not surprising that a bill originally designed to compensate the members of the judiciary for permits will become a substantial reform of the General Council of the Judiciary; moreover, to the extent that our rapporteur on this bill, Mrs Ciuro, has not had a participation, let us say, informed by other groups, leads us prudently to abstain from this process. We feel very little participative in the reforms that are being adopted, regardless of whether we can share any of them. But we do want to note that if a few seconds ago he spoke to them about the contempt that the judiciary has in Catalonia, we must also remember this week, in these days, that what has been lived in the Supreme Court in relation to the ruling that is already final and that will be reviewed, neither invites the confidence of the citizen in the proper functioning of justice. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the parliamentary debate that we have today and that, I hope, the reforms that are being implemented today are useful, what is very clear is that a rule of law needs to operate citizens' confidence in the functioning of that rule of law, and that does not exist today. I hope that this reform will be useful and I hope that the recent reform or renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary will serve to correct what has undoubtedly been a history of horror in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u161	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. First of all, I would like to remind you that this Friday, on 2 November, Oriol Junqueras and Joaquim Forn, friends and companions, will serve a year of unjust imprisonment. [[Applauds]] Free political prisoners! We are here because we have all taken advantage of a proposal for a law that was initially aimed at reforming the permits and licenses of judges and prosecutors to modify those aspects that are most urgent and of extreme need of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We all take advantage of this situation because our group believes that there is a need for a series of reforms that democratize judicial bodies, especially the General Council of the Judiciary. Also, because it was urgent to comply with the requirements of the Greek report and to give the judicial system more independence and transparency, but we still have a long way to go. It is true that many of our amendments have been accepted and negotiated, but the main amendments that we keep alive, those relating to the change of model in the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, were rejected by the main groups in this House. We are presenting these amendments because we believe that it is urgent and extremely necessary to change this system of appointments of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is currently bipartisan, and becomes a plural model, more transparent and where the members of the Council are the plural reflection of society, but also more urgently because of the discredit that the Supreme Court and the high judicial bodies are having lately between citizenship and institutions. I understand that there is a need for courage and for breaking internal agreements and pacts with certain people for personal favors, but society is calling for it in a cry when it is increasingly in disagreement with the guidelines that have certain judgments in certain cases of great impact and social significance. [[Rumors]] The model we are proposing could be like any other, so we are open to talking about another model, to dialogue and to agree on what should be the most optimal model and which will satisfy us all, but not one group in the House has come close to commenting on these amendments. The second of our amendments which we are keeping alive are those relating to the Council of Justicia de Catalunya, a body which is provided for in our Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia in Articles 97 et seq. The Council of Justice of Catalonia is a disconcentrated body of the General Council of the Judiciary, recognized in our legal system, which we had functions under our powers in the field of justice, but which most of its functions have been appealed to the Constitutional Court. This is a clear example of centralisation and the increasing cut-off of competences to the autonomous communities, especially Catalonia. The Constitutional Court brought him down like many other issues, for example, vigour. But he knocked him down, not out of unconstitutionality, but because he considered that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia was not the mechanism. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u162	Wait a minute, Mrs. Telechea. Ladies and gentlemen, while Mrs Telechea was addressing the rostrum, everyone was silent. When she has begun to speak, to intervene from the rostrum because for that it is her turn, everyone has begun to speak as well. I would ask you, please, a little silence because I see you looking at one side and another because I don't think you can concentrate on what you're saying, and I think we're here to hear what she's saying because it's who's in the use of the word. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u163	Thank you, President. Therefore, we now have the opportunity - we had the opportunity - to rectify through the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to return the competences to Catalonia in the regulation of the Council of Justicia of Catalonia. That is why we keep them alive, because we believe in this model of the benefits that it can bring to the transparency of the judicial system. Despite all this, our group is going to abstain in today's vote, although it might deserve a negative vote because, although some amendments were negotiated, they did not even address our group to discuss or put on the table the two most important issues that we have brought up and that we are now defending. This reform of the appointment system of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of Justice of Catalonia. But, out of responsibility, Esquerra is going to abstain. I personally appreciate the effort, but it is not enough for us. It remains short, lacks boldness and above all will of understanding with Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it may be of interest to know the citizens, and certainly many of you, that this morning, day-to-day and light-heartedly, the agenda of this plenary has been altered to introduce this bill into this debate. And it is that this law, which has had many names since it began to be processed, I would like to qualify it, and allow me the film license, ladies and gentlemen, with a more appropriate name. In my view, this is a MacGuffin law. As you will know, a MacGuffin is a narrative trick that is used in cinema, an excuse, a lure that really lacks importance but which allows the main characters to advance in the development of the plot. Hitchcock is considered the king of MacGuffin. But perhaps from today it would be appropriate to review such honor in the light of the mastery for the lure displayed during the processing of this bill by the Socialist Party, the People's Party, Podemos and the PNV. Let us speak clearly, ladies and gentlemen: this law is a giant lure, a lure that hides its true intention. This law was told that it would be useful for judges to recover certain permits and licenses but in reality it is an excuse that serves PSOE, PP, Podemos, PNV and others to distribute once again the political cake of the renewal of the judiciary. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, for many years you have been exchanging the chromosomes of the General Council of the Judiciary and now, with this law, you have prepared the baptism of Podemos to be incorporated into the chasm of the politicization of justice. When this law began to be processed, which was called the Law on Partial Reform of the Permits and Licenses Regime, it consisted exclusively of the partial amendment of two articles of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. Today, when we arrive here at the final point of its processing, it turns out that it has become the amendment of more than fifty articles of that law, some of them of important importance and significance. Since 1985, there have been fifty-three amendments to the Organic Law on the Judiciary. None has ever been done in this way, by this procedure and with this democratic abuse of the legislative procedure. And of course it's a law of silence; a law of silence that steals preceptive reports, that steals the participation of legal operators and an informed debate... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u166	Wait a minute. Please, I beg you to remain silent. We have very few minutes left; please, let's keep quiet. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u167	It steals the participation of the legal operators, steals the informed and transparent debate before the justice professionals and their representatives, and also before the Spanish as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be sold this law with the decoy that it is about adopting the recommendations of the Greek Group of the European Union, the Council of Europe. At all events, the meagre progress achieved in issues such as transparency or revolving doors cannot hide the true purpose of this law and, above all, its main effect. Its main effect is to shield the political and partisan appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. That is the main effect that is sought, that is the main reform that the Greek group had asked of us and that is the main reform that is hidden with this law. [[Applauds]] We could talk about many issues, about content. I would really like to have a timely and calm debate on the content of this law, but we have five minutes. Do you really believe that a reform of more than fifty articles of the Organic Law of the Judiciary can be carried out in this House with five minutes of time? And you think that's not a fraud in the legislative process? Yes, it is, and you know it. Yes, it is. [[Applauds]] Many of the proposed changes are aimed at reducing judicial powers. Greater mediaization of the Executive is introduced into the work of judges and courts. There are some very curious things. The Minister of Justice, for example, at the beginning of the legislature said that the failed process of digitizing justice was absolutely paralysed. All right, well, you here in this law not only paralyze him, but step on the accelerator. They will no longer be able to transcribe either interrogations or statements. Go and tell the examining magistrates or prosecutors. Tell them they will not have a transcript of the statements at the investigative stage. Tell him. [[Applauds]] And what do you tell me about that concept that you introduce as a destination center? The destination centre, which will be the municipality for all staff at the service of the Administration of Justice. They will also have to explain this to the unions of the Administration of Justice; they can start tomorrow in front of the concentrations convened in front of the Ministry of Justice to protest for this real violation of their working conditions that has been made by stealing the necessary negotiation. We could talk about many more things, but I will give you an example of the clock bombs contained in this project that you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have accepted. This morning in the Bureau we rejected a proposal from Podemos for Mr Lesmes to appear in this House to explain in an ongoing court procedure. Forget it, this is the last time we will be able to reject that initiative. You have made an amendment to this law that will allow this House to summon not the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court, but any member of the General Council of the Judiciary to ask for explanations in this House. Do you know what that's called? Introducing a power into another power; they don't understand anything, they don't know what the independence of the judiciary means. [[applause]] They don't know it at all; they don't know it at all. You don't know him. Of course, the Lords of Podemos have achieved some victories: that proposal that the judges had to show their unwavering adherence to the government's agenda of change. Well, little by little they're moving forward, they're making progress in that direction. What I am surprised is that the members of the People's Party and the members of the Socialist Party are comulsing with this issue. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against it. We will vote against it because, as I told you, this MacGuffin law is a time bomb that violates democratic procedures, respect for the separation of powers and judicial independence. No cake can be so greedy as to skip democratic procedures, ladies and gentlemen. Democracy is defined precisely by respect for procedures and its MacGuffin law is a scam, an excuse that will allow them to continue sharing the General Council of the Judiciary, also now also incorporating the populists of Podemos or some independenceist who was passing by, surely. Ladies and gentlemen, all this in exchange for what, what is the price to pay? Explain it, you gentlemen of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party will have to explain it. You'll have to explain what's behind this rundown process. In any case, what I can assure you is that citizens will continue to defend what has been holy and signify their actions: the independence of the judiciary, the renewal of the model of election of the General Council of the judiciary, in order, this time, to comply with the recommendations of the Greek Group of the Council of Europe and to avoid the politicization of justice and the mangonium of justice that you have been practicing for so many years. Don't doubt it, we'll vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes Prendes. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you very much. We are submitting to the plenary for its consideration an opinion adopted in the Committee on Justice by 31 votes to two, with three abstentions, amending various aspects of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. With serious parliamentary work by some groups, we closed with broad consensus a chapter that was opened with the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group last October 2017. A year ago, ladies and gentlemen. The final result responds to the plural parliamentary work of those groups concerned about taking advantage of opportunities to move forward in the improvement and updating of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, in addition to allowing the recovery of rights that had already occurred in the rest of the public administrations and that should be done here through an organic law reform. [[The lady]] This year, as I had the opportunity to say in the Committee on Justice, we have had to overcome multiple vicissitudes, such as the bursting of parliamentary work in the subcommittee for which you have now said a number of things I suppose you will have to answer for, because it is not worth saying anything in this House. However, we have wanted to forget these attitudes and we value something that is quoted a lot but not believed in, although we are proving that we know how to do it and that it is possible: patient work and parliamentary agreement, putting the fundamental before the accessory, which unites in the face of what divides, the will to move forward in the face of resistance to change; in short, the objective to which we have to contribute from Parliament, which is to improve justice in this case. The combination of forces in this reform presupposes that path that we consider correct in order to advance especially in the modification of the governing body of judges by saving it to that position in which it best finds itself. But, Mr de Citizens, with the speech that Mr Prendes made in the Commission, with what he did today in the House and with what he did before the media, confusing everyone, we really are not making any progress. You have chosen legitimately, although it has consequences, because you do not sit down, because you do not agree on justice unless you do what you want and only what you want. So, you're behaving like a kid with a patty when you don't give him a candy he wants. That's what they do. [[Applauds]] Today they have done so over and over again, and you have put the wink in your glorious speech in this House. Nothing you've said is true. You have been demonstrating over and over again with your attitude that you are the only ones who can present initiatives by jumping all the rules and all the acts, that you are the only ones who can report to the subcommittees and that you can submit amendments, but not the PP. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not admissible. There has been light and stenographers, complete light on the work, less agile than we would have liked, it is true, but always in the terms committed in the Bureau of Justice, with as many individual and collective meetings as were necessary to deal with a paper with a text with the greatest consensus and thus bring it to the presentations and to the Commission. I remind you that we are before an organic law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they say that we in Justice are boring, but we are serious. We have a word, the People's Group is also serious and has a word. [[Applauds]] The only truth is that you have wanted to cooperate and do not want to vote for what you announce in your speeches. A little coherence! They want to cover up their failures, like today's budget, they want to cover up their incompetence, and they want to confuse and get angry. We want a job for the best justice, that is what we have done in this reform, in those three blocs that we have addressed. We incorporate professional demands, quick adaptation provisions and compensation to those who have suffered for an unforeseen time in the law. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we incorporate what the Greek report calls for, better levels of judicial perception and independence, more objective criteria for selection, more motivated reports and limitation of mandates. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u170	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u171	And we have a penalty and it is that the figure of the autonomic judge, the suppression of the so-called autonomic judge, is not incorporated. That is why we maintain three amendments for which I would like the attention of your ladies and gentlemen, because in the amendment on the autonomous judge it proposes people who are going to exercise jurisdiction and we believe that, in addition to everything we incorporate, which is very and important, it should be taken into consideration. We also change the advice, but not in what Mr Prendes has said, no; we change it with prudence, with commitment and with equanimity. We make it clear that the vowels can already be exclusively vocal, the powers of the plenary and the role of the standing committee. We want a better rapprochement with the Council with this House, but we are not exercising any control. It's measured, very measured, you just have to read the reform. I have to finish, Madam President, by thanking a lot of people for their work and I will be representing you in my fellow rapporteurs Lola Alba and Carmen Dueñas, in the speakers and in the rapporteurs of the other parliamentary groups, especially those who have given you hours, who have given you courage and who have not looked where the amendments came from. Neither have we, and that is what needs to be done in this House. I want to thank the lawyers and all the staff of the House for working, when it has been necessary to do so, hard and intensely, never hidden, never in law fraud and always for the sake of justice. We are not finished and the task continues. This is a rule that has emerged from Parliament, from the work of the parliamentary groups, with the utmost consensus, and you now regret that, Mr de Citizens, you had to be in this reform. Thanks to everyone else. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat this again, I beg you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking briefly. We are discussing a partial amendment to the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which has been given in the paper and the Commission with a broad consensus, as has already been explained by the speakers who have spoken before me, and of which the number of amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups and those which remain, which are very few, is good. This consensus was forged in the three areas on which the reform is planned. The first and original, on licenses and permits. The aim was to recover the social benefits that had been removed from judges, judges and prosecutors during the crisis, as had already been done with the rest of the Public Service, in areas such as the annual leave period, permits for private affairs, additional days due to seniority and paternity leave, matching the content with that of the Basic Staff Regulations, as well as an important mirror clause consisting in the fact that everything relating to the reconciliation of family and work life for the public administrations would be automatically transferred to the Administration of Justice. A second area that has already been explained is the reform, also partial, of the General Council of the Judiciary with a return to a design of the governing body of the Judiciary that responds more faithfully to the collegiate nature of the Judiciary, suppressing the dual nature of its vowels, introducing exclusive dedication and re-establishing the plenary body to its original and pre-eminent position with regard to the competences of the Council, as can be conciliated with article 122 of the Constitution. Another set of issues are also addressed in the project and would constitute the third block, relating to improvements in the management of the Administration of Justice with respect to human resources planning and management in order to respond more effectively to the needs of the Administration of Justice itself, among which we would highlight the creation of judicial units of instance, the establishment and the criterion of merit and capacity... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u174	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u175	... in competitions for the provision of destinations, promotion and promotions. And with regard to judicial positions, limitation of mandates, the obligation to declare property and the open call and with clear criteria for the appointment procedure. In addition, the development of aspects relating to the use of electronic, computer, telematics, the definitive implementation of the NOF and a long human resources etc. Finally, a series of measures which must be adopted before the end of the year in order to ensure that they have full effect in the exercise and enjoyment of those social benefits, which would otherwise run the risk of being lost, and also to ensure that a renewal of the current General Council of the Judiciary is implemented. Finally, and as the previous spokesman has done, I do not want to end without thanking the Commission's lawyers and the rest of the technical services. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u176	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent, to occupy your seats and to request us to finish the plenary in a reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u177	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. I confess that when I prepared this speech a little bit, I remembered a Bolaño story called The Rat Cop. It's a detective story where a rat investigates the death of another rat and in which it's forbidden to think that rats kill rats, and this is a landicap. There is a time when, in the face of the desolating vision of the human being who presents this story, the main character, dramatizing, says: at what point did it start to be too late? Of course, when one thinks of justice and the General Council of the Judiciary, these words come to mind: when did it start to be too late? Did it start to be too late when the constitutional body said what the General Council of the Judiciary should be like? Did it start to be too late when the system for appointing the members of the General Council of the Judiciary was approved in 1985? Did it start to be too late when bipartisanism began to organize a system of appointment of the council that came more to account of the transmission belt interests of some parties, of some associations, than of the general interest? Did it start to be too late with the Caribbean weekends? Did it start to be too late when Minister Gallardón imposed a law on us, the 4/2003, which in the end has generated that it is not even the judges to transmit anything but that the council acts on purely and simply personal criteria in a customer network? So it started to be too late? These are questions that we can legitimately ask in this room and may not have an answer, because each of us and each of us will surely have a vision of what has happened. But this makes up a fairly adequate account of what has been going on in the General Council of the Judiciary, which has ended up in an absolutely presidentialist account, of personalistic management, a management in the field of appointments of the absolutely opaque high judicial officials, without merit or capacity at all. And what do we do about it? What do we do when we have the opportunity to change the Organic Law of Judicial Power? Of course it's not the law we would have liked, it's not the law we dreamt of. It's the law with which we set foot on the wall. It is the law in which we realized that it was too late and that, from here on, we had to move forward. It is the law in which we seek the basic consensus, that is: since we do not have to change the Constitution tomorrow, we will change the rules and ways of functioning. Because we had another option, Mr Prendes, we had the option of just preparing this speech and doing in five minutes the work of all the others we did in hours and hours of presentation and we had the option of using this forum as a divan where we simply raise our frustrations or display impudently the absolute inability to reach agreements with the rest of the groups, which in itself denotes a lack of criterion in what is the Administration of Justice. Because you have no judgment. If they had and told us they would have brought it here and now I could answer some things. But they do not have it, and that is their big problem and that is why they are outside this consensus and approach. [[Applauds]] In short, it was too late when we blamed the Minister, Minister Catalá, for his interference with justice. It was too late when we got out of that covenant that served to change everything so that everything remained the same. It was already too late when we called for the repeal of Law 4/2013. Indeed. But what we're doing now is taking a step. At least we changed the system in which this board is going to work, with twenty exclusive vowels. This will avoid the stick and carrot; it will avoid choosing you yes, you will not; it will prevent the appointments from occurring by that consensus which the current president of the General Council of the Judiciary boasts and which covers only his finger directly; we will incorporate, once and for all, parity, in order to try not to reproduce those black pictures of gentlemen's robes, in a judicial career with a majority of women; we will incorporate anti-corruption and transparency measures; we will incorporate in a systematic way that all the employment situations that in the General Administration of the State are for the benefit of the people who are officials are automatically and simply incorporated into the Administration of Justice. We won in maneuverability; we won in transparency; we incorporated the Greek report; we won in labor rights. That's putting foot on the wall. That's finding a consensus. That's starting work. If you want to, you're invited. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u178	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we know what we are talking about; we are talking about whether or not the opinion that the Committee on Justice adopted a week ago was adopted. I would like to make two reflections which I believe can help us to better understand the object and the limits of this opinion, and then also to understand Mr Prendes' speech. First of all, it is true that justice does not find that just tone to address the great reforms of modernization, normative, organizational and technological reforms, and it lives involved in that myth of Sisyphus, okay. But we can see it: Organic Law of the Judiciary, which is now the one that we retouched; that of 1870, which was provisional and lasted more than a century; that of now, Mr.Prendes, 54 years, not 53, and I do not count the two that are about to go to the Senate for further modification. That's the reality. Just as it is a reality when we think about reforms and we think, according to the second sense of the dictionary of language, that it is the modification of something to improve it. It's not always like that. Perhaps the People's Party is also used to looking back to see the path we should never have left. That's why we play both counter-reforms, okay. And in those terms it is in those terms that one can understand this modification that is now presented. It is true that it is born with a very specific scope. In October 2017 we saw here the consideration of an organic law amendment to talk about the licenses, permits and holidays of the justice sector, judges and all others; correct. But many things have happened since October 2017, in a year the government has changed. There has been a great deal of passivity in the field of justice, Mr Prendes, and you have had something to do with it. You used to call magic games and remind me when you spoke to a great magician, to the Great Houdini, because every time we called him he escaped, there was no way to locate him. He laughs because he knows it's true, he knows it's true. [[Applauds]] They address the commissions and the presentations, the multiple meetings, always: the Great Houdini. That's why I tell him I liked his magic example. What happened? That we had the challenge. Be careful, the Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled six amendments, no more than six, because we were aware of the great mistake of Minister Gallardón when he removed this leave of absence and leave saying that he was wasting the way out of the crisis. Today we realized - the People's Party has done so - that that was not good and we had to recover those rights. But should we leave the possibility, with the regulatory vacuum we have, of not altering and improving the administration of justice? And that was the challenge we accepted. That is why the law, of having a single monolithic block, licenses, permits and holidays, i.e. the six three-day permits, the 22-day cumulative vacation with years of public service or the maternity, postpartum, foster care permits, became two more blocks, one of the judiciary, because it was understood - and so understood by the party that favored it - that the organization and operation of the council had not given the desired ends. We don't go into any other disquisitions. We do not touch the forms of choice, nor do we even discuss it, but we do understand that it was necessary to articulate this mechanism that would allow us to talk about a better organization for the judiciary, because it is for whom the council works. Thus, we thought that it was better for the twenty vowels to have exclusive dedication; we thought that it was better to articulate the parity of men and women in regulation; it was necessary to articulate the best mechanisms for the selection and recognition of merit and capacity; it was necessary to re-regulate the powers of the plenary, and it was necessary to re-regulate the powers of the standing commission. Then there was a complex, strange block, where there were really many issues, some organizational and others related to improvements. Thus, it has been touched upon the possibility of the Council designating bodies beyond the judicial party to deal with matters always of the same jurisdictional order, article 98; mechanisms for limiting the mandate have been established; the mechanism for the declaration of property of judicial authorities - presidents, members of the Council, secretary-general and the high judiciary - has been established; mechanisms for improving, for example, JADs, territorial secondment judges. These are purely technical questions. What scares you, Mr. Prendes? What happens to Citizens with technical improvements? You don't appreciate them either? What's wrong with improving judicial statistics? What happens to the improvements regarding the entire judicial organization? On the other hand, it has made a reference, which I do not subscribe to, concerning destination centres. He invokes the question, but always pulling towards the Great Houdini, counting only half. Of course, we were aware that all the proposing groups had a limitation and a problem, and that they had not been negotiated with the trade unions, but we have all been respectful of that, they have been explained and that is why it has been included. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform has a single article with 51 paragraphs being touched on and extensive additional, transitional and final provisions. That is why it is said: it will not enter into force until the regulation agreed with the trade union centres is adopted. Then there is no fear, because if the power stations do not want the regulation will not be negotiated and, therefore, there will be no change that you see as a cataclysm. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u181	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request for a four-month extension of the deadline for the subcommittee to study the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers to issue its report. [[NETWORK]] That request will be put to the vote at the end of this sitting. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u182	We begin with the consideration of proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the limitation of time limits for amendments to legislative initiatives. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 339 votes, plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 176 plus 2 telematics votes, 178; against, 163.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u183	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u184	We voted for the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group amending Law 29/1987 of 18 December on inheritance and donation tax. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 163; 175 plus 2 telematics votes, 177; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u185	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u186	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on measures to facilitate the contribution of the self-employed. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and Mixed Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour 175; 164 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u187	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, calling on the Government to condemn the Venezuelan opinion, to contribute to the establishment of the Latin American region and to adopt a temporary protection status for Venetians in Spain. [[File number 162/000761]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u188	We now vote on the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group calling on the Government to condemn the dictatorship of Venezuela, contribute to the stabilization of the Latin American region and adopt a statute of temporary protection for Venezuelans in Spain. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and Mixed Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 176 against, 74 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u189	It's approved. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on their way to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u190	We shall now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the motions arising from an inquiry. Motion resulting from urgent interpellation by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the need to apply the gratuitousness of the AP-7 and to ensure the construction of the sections that guarantee the connection with neighbouring peoples. [[Mrs. Sorlí]] We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 246 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u191	It's approved. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MARIA, ON THE RIGHT TO MOVITY AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT, BY THE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLENESS OF A NETWORK OF PUBLIC, ECOLOGICAL, SOCIAL AND QUALITY FOR IMPROVING COMPETITIVENESS, VERIFICATION AND SOCIAL COHESION IN OUR COUNTRY, AND IN PARTICULAR, TO KNOW THE GUIDELINE FOR GOVERNMENT TO THE RAILWAY PUBLIC SECTOR IN THE FRAMEWORK OF REGULATORY CHANGES AND THE ADVANCES OF LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT AS STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE ECONOMY. [[File number 173/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u192	We will now vote on the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the right to mobility and public transport, for the development and sustainability of a public, ecological, social and quality rail network for better competitiveness, vertebration and social cohesion in our country, and in particular to know the orientation that the Government intends to give to the public railway sector in the context of regulatory changes and the advancement of logistics and transport as strategic areas of the economy. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 340; in favour, 203; against, 132; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u193	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the implementation of the Government's policy on migration. [[File number 173/000117]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u194	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's action in immigration policy. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 172 against, 164 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u195	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u196	We are now voting on the request for a four-month extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the accident at flight JK 5022 from Spanair. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u197	We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary We are going to vote, first of all, on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, and we are going to vote in block on those amendments. [[formerly known as the proposed Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, partial reform of the licensing and licensing regime]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 21 against, 318 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u198	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, which we will also be voting in bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 22 against, 316 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u199	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THESE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 32 against, 305 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u200	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. First, Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 167 against, 172 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u201	It's rejected. Amendment 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 166 against, 173 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u202	It's rejected. Amendment 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 134 against 204; abstentions 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u203	It's rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 294 against, 32 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u204	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u205	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, for having the same character as organic. [[formerly known as the proposed Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, partial reform of the licensing and licensing regime]] I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that an absolute majority of the members of the House is required for approval. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 294 against, 32 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u206	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-30-CD181030.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to vote on the request for a four-month extension of the deadline for the subcommittee to study the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers to issue its report. [[NETWORK]] Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] It was adopted. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and forty-five minutes of the night.
