ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill to take urgent measures to alleviate the effects of drought on certain river basins and amend the consolidated text of the Water Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July, from Royal Decree 10/2017 of 9 June. Mr Candela Serna has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Today is a relatively good day because we are going to talk about something more than the territorial crisis, we are going to talk about one of the serious threats we face as a society, which is drought. I would like, therefore, to say that it is a relatively good day, to put on the table one of the greatest injustices that is going to be committed today or that is already being committed against the regents, against the farmers of the Tajo-Segura transfer, mainly the farmers of Alicante and the Vega Baja. Here are some deputies from the Vega Baja and the Vinalopó who fill their mouths saying they defend their land, but here today they will endorse one more betrayal. This bill has not heard the voice of farmers in southern Alicante, who can no longer do so, and it is that due to the lack of water planning, the lack of modernisation of irrigation, the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017 is obliged to pay a fee of 120 euros per hectare to be watered or not watered. That is a real nonsense and we wonder - as we are - where those 120 euros will go. They are also for mangroves, to which we are quite accustomed. This mechanism is unprecedented in thirty-eight years of operation of the transvase and represents a boulder to the already elusive resources of the regents. We are not going to endorse this harassment, what we want is the elimination of the levy, not to exempt them from it temporarily, as it seems - I have been told this morning - that they have reached an agreement, as always, behind the backs of the citizenry. Some political allies have accused Compromís of giving in to employers' pressures in recent weeks. I think that is neither true nor fraternal and I do not know what we would say applying the same argumental thread on this issue, but we are not going to do it because we know who our allies are. I'm done. Today the nuts are tightened more to our farmers. Today, as always, many of Alicante's Members say one thing there, they come here and do another, and we will continue to represent Alicante, its farmers, against injustice and against the 120 euros levy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u3	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u4	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our position on this legislative initiative is familiar to you. We abstained in this House because we found no positive response to any of the amendments or proposals to improve the text we put forward. This situation remained in the Senate, where neither of our proposals was admitted, and that is why we also abstained in the Upper House. However, some of the changes that have been made in the Senate are technical improvements and we have nothing to say, so we are not going to stand against it. On the other hand, some of the amendments introduced in the Senate - taking advantage of the parliamentary majority in that House of the group that supports the Government - open the way for certain transfers without any guarantee - an issue that worries us and against which we stand - and impose situations that do not like their citizens' partners at all, since they benefit especially some autonomous communities that are obviously not Catalan. We will therefore stand against the amendments introduced in the Senate and we will retain our abstention from the whole text. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u6	Thank you, Madam President. MPs and MPs, sometimes when one is in the Congress of Deputies he wonders cordially what the Senate is for. The Catalans have realized that it is useful, it seems, to apply the 155; also sometimes to break consensus or complicate the consensus so difficult to build in Congress. With all due respect, whoever had the Bundesrat! Who would have had a House that would allow not only a second reading, sometimes a little confusing in my opinion, but that would allow us to overcome, build, make progress on issues such as the one we are bringing here today, that would allow for a vision that would add up and that would not hinder the complex relations between the autonomous communities; complex because of the issue of water - which we were talking about yesterday -, because of the ravages that nature sometimes causes or because of the poor political planning of the problems that nature sometimes causes us. With the most benevolent reading, our group will remain in the principles of abstention, but we cannot be neutral against certain decisions that worsen - that worsen - that create problems and not solutions. For this I hope that a majority of the House, which has often spoken in a progressive sense, will allow us to prevent - to prevent - sometimes strange pacts in the Senate that are hard to understand right now. So let's add up and move on. It's good to learn from the mistakes, not just some but all of them, and let's get out of here with damage reduction. This is our view. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, President. It said Fray Luis de León: We said yesterday. For that is what I say: we said yesterday that the problem of drought in this country is very serious; it is a problem that we have been dragging away for many years. After my speech I heard a lot of things and I am still absorbed by what you said, Mr PDECAT. Listen to the transcript, because there are things you don't listen to. [[Rumors]] And you should hear more things. Read it, read it, that reading and understanding is good. What we were talking about is the issue of drought. Drought is something important and we believe that we should make a decision about it - but not by now, for 2017, as the previous royal decree, which is now amended for 2018, proposed - to have a work plan and a law that will allow us to undertake all the initiatives so that our farmers, our regents and our farmers can have palliative measures in view of the so negative impact they have on their results accounts. That's what we have to do. I see here a series of movements. There's one thing I'm missing and it's the use of the Senate. Using the Senate, gentlemen of the People's Party, to make amendments that have nothing to do with the drought issue seemed very strange to me. [[Rumors]] Can't you hear me? Well, I'll say it faster: using the Senate to make amendments that have nothing to do with the drought seemed to me something surprising, surprising, although then they had the gallantness to take them off. You can't use the Senate for those things. The Senate is for other very important things, such as 155, but not to do what you did with the Senate amendments. I think you should make better use of the Senate. Lords of the Socialist Party, today a headline comes out in a south-eastern newspaper - not to say my land - saying: The Socialist Party and the PP come to an agreement to lower the drained water to 0,30 to the regants. I didn't know that, that you had come to those agreements. Mr. Palacín, what a silence you had, didn't you? How it changes! Mr Rojo, you must realize what you are saying: the Socialist Party and the People's Party come to an agreement to go down to 0.30. We all come to that agreement and we all vote for it, and you are already beginning to take it from it. I think the conversation President Rajoy had with his president is coming up for important effects. I didn't know that, I didn't know that, you look where. Anyway, then there's another topic, that of the famous praising, the one you voted for, the People's Party and Podemos. You voted together to force a fee of 120 euros, as the Compromís colleague has said, without receiving a single drop. That, which seems totally unfair to us, was voted for by you, Mr de Podemos, and was against farmers and farmers; 120 euros. By the way, he's already charged and I'll tell him in case you're not aware. But also charged the B rate, Mrs De Lara, the B account was also charged. Although we are now told that as they are going to change it, that there is an agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party to change it between 2017 and 2018, then the People's Party and the Socialist Party are going to eliminate that rate, rate B. It seems incredible to me, it's amazing the torticero use they're making of this law; really make it look at it, it's amazing. Mr Sicilia, it's amazing; since you're not in the Commission, you've been doing some terribly strange things. We sincerely believe that we must stand alongside farmers and farmers, and we must indeed support the palliative measures to reduce the cost of this very serious drought. We're going to be with them as we've always been doing and we're going to keep what we said at first, what we're not going to support are these changes. If we talked about some issues and reached agreements, Mr Palacín, so that we could make a better law of drought, for God's sake, do what we talked about and do what we agreed. And gentlemen of the People's Party, also comply with the investment agreements and let's make a national water pact. Today they will vote against a motion that we tabled yesterday proposing to create a water table, why? For other stories, they will vote against, and the Socialist Party too, yes, dangerous friendships start again, Mr Palacín. [[Applauds]] They will not find us there; they will find us in the dialogue, they will find us in the support, they will find us in anything that can change, can improve and can make that once and for all there are general plans against the drought that allow our farmers and cattlemen to do their work decently and without being unraveled in an irrational way only because there is a double language on the water issue between the People's Party and the Socialist Party because of the territory they are talking about. That, Mr. Palacín, happens, and that, Mrs. De Lara, happens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Arrojo Agudo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Friends, friends, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate gives us back a text very similar in substance to what the Government presented in its day as a decree of drought, therefore a text very different from that which came out of this House thanks to the transactions between the Confederal Group and the Socialist Group, that is, with the valuable support of other groups. I will briefly recall the contents of that agreement. First, we approve to extend the benefits of this law to farms and livestock farms in regions that are not in basins declared globally in hydrological drought suffer similar impacts of drought. I am talking about basins or regions not only of the Guadalquivir at the time but also of the Ebro, the Guadiana or the Tagus. This is not a bureaucratic problem, it is a problem of justice, and we know it perfectly well. Secondly, we agree to move from traditional tariff and tariff exemptions that contradict the European Union's principle of cost recovery to a new system of direct support for vulnerable, small and medium-sized farms. Direct support which must of course be complemented by flows from non-conventional sources at affordable prices, I insist, for vulnerable farms. Allow me two questions to make you better understand what I mean. Since when has responsibility and savings been encouraged by the widespread free provision of scarce drought flows? And I don't say it as a professor of economics, but any citizen of this country understands it. What is the point of offering free supply to large farms with significant benefits that allow them to have more than lax resources to prevent and alleviate the effects of these droughts? Thirdly, we approve the creation of a drought fund of EUR 1 billion in the coming budgets that will enable us to deal with the growing risks arising from climate change and, in particular, that will enable us to deal with the clamorous hole that means that we do not have any kind of insurance or drought compensation system for irrigation. I know it's a complex issue, but it's absolutely impossible. What is impossible is to tackle this challenge without money. Again I ask a question to make me understand better. What is the point of encouraging drought farmers to put money in the hedge of their insurance for future droughts and to engage the regants in crying and asking the state for money every time the drought comes without any compensation insurance system in which they themselves can make their responsible contributions in times of normality? Fourthly, we approve the creation of water banks, exchange centres in each basin under guarantees of transparency, public management and citizen participation; exchange centres that foresee in each basin future droughts, but from the serenity that contributes to being in years of normality and - I insist - with adequate transparency and public control, so that we avoid the speculation and business of the water markets today prevailing through contracts of assignment and the heat of the alarm and the sozobra that generates drought. In short, we try to prevent that saying that we all know of the turbulent river, the profit of fishermen will end up turning - as in fact happens now - into another saying that I would say to the dry river, the profit of speculators. We also unfortunately lost in the process in Congress the votes on some key issues in the Commission, for example, the one that required ending the overexploitation of aquifers and that long million illegal wells in order to make aquifers a strategic reserve in drought cycles. Another amendment also referred to the senseless sale of paper water - there unfortunately we did not have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and we lost the vote -; by the way, the sale of paper water that the Government's drought decree blesses and allows to disable article 69 of the Waters Act. It is a profound folly to accelerate the overexploitation of aquifers, bearing in mind that next year there will probably be drought. It is absolutely suicidal, dear friends and friends. We also lost the vote on the proposal we were making to remove for justice the famous pawns of the laborers, especially in Andalusia and Extremadura, who defended my colleague Cañamero a short time ago as a good connoisseur in his own flesh of what that implies and in a very convincing way. We adopted it by a majority in this House in the corresponding GNP, but then, when we re-examined this issue in the Commission during the debate on the bill, we lost it. That is why we will accept the Senate's proposal not to remove the pawns, but to reduce them. We shall vote in favour of that. In general, as I have already said, obviously what the Senate brings to us is a profound reversal of the progress made here in this House. In any case, it's something to be expected. It has already been said that before the figure of the Senate we face the expected, the normal; but, yes, the normal within the anomaly of an absolute overwhelming majority in the Senate of a political force that obtained barely 33% of the votes. Something will have to be done with these things in the future. To finish, I will focus on the two issues that worry me most about what the Senate sends us. The text contains a so-called drought fund, but a dry fund without funds. The billions we had planned are gone. It's a bottomless drought that makes me think of airports without planes or highways without cars. But, above all, I am particularly concerned about turning water banks into basins into a bottom of water controlled by the Directorate-General for Waters, which is, in short, an argument to cover up in a very little disguised way drought transfers based on the free water market that has been legalized by the People's Party and which, at the moment, Citizens bless with enthusiasm since the mismatch, and perverse, that they make of the privatization and mercantilization of water. That's just what the current law prohibits today with the Tajo-Segura transfer when the yielding basin is exhausted. And it is that transvases are not a useful tool for dealing with drought cycles. Mr Aznar's National Hydrological Plan itself, with an absolute majority in 2000, stated in those annexes that almost no one is read to say that in years of drought the transfer of the Ebro that was being discussed would not be operational because the droughts are not local but regional, because when the Segura enters into drought, the Júcar, the Ebro and the Tagus enter into drought. In any case, there we have the Tagus-Secure in these years. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have experienced so far with this drought - which the recent snows barely dampen - is just the beginning of a future that must be not only worrying but alarming to all. Either we change the strategy radically or our vulnerability to the droughts that will come will continue to grow. The PP's current strategy is as outdated and ineffective as irresponsible and senseless. It is unwise to provide scarce resources in drought on a widespread basis free of charge so that, with markets, small farmers end up selling their insufficient resources to large farmers and abandoning their farms. It is foolish to continue to allow overexploitation of our rivers and aquifers with more than a million illegal wells and to do nothing meaningful. It is foolish to keep looking elsewhere at the lack of irrigation insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond ideologies and electoral conveniences, we must put an end to this foolishness. I hope, fellow socialists and other groups, that we will be able to reject the Senate amendments that bring us back to the old approaches of the drought decree and that we will start to open new approaches consistent with the new water culture...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u11	Mr. Rojo, you have to finish. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u12	..., new strategies appropriate to the challenges we face with climate change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Díaz Trillo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u14	President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning reviewing the notes for this speech and composing the crossword puzzle of the amendments to the specific issue that we are dealing with today was that background noise of yesterday's football party - you know that yesterday there was a football match in Spain - and I thought that this parliamentary process, which began on 9 June with the Minister's appearance presenting the royal decree, was like a party, that appearance being the first part of it. Then came the second part here, with a determined effort on the part of the political groups to try to do something with the defect that has the subject that we are dealing with here today, something absolutely short-term as a decree of drought to alleviate the effects of this drought. By the way, a drought of the most severe of the last twenty years in our country and that has left the reservoirs under minimum and very punished our ecosystems. In this regard, I told them that the presentation that took place here in Congress had a very active participation of all, so I would like to congratulate the colleagues of my group and all the political groups. I would also like to warn Citizens that there is no pact on this issue that we are going to vote against. They're obsessed with the political situation they're fighting with the People's Party, but that doesn't concern us. I have already announced to you that we are not going to agree on this issue; in others we would like it to be because we want this vision that we propose, not cyclical but structural, which is the one that was intended to incorporate into that second part of the party that was the presentation for the bill, to have a lastingity. The first rule of politics is foresight, certainty, giving security to people; a policy full of uncertainty is a bad policy. In this regard, I repeat, our group is trying to do everything possible to improve this decree, a bill already under way. And then the extension came in the Senate - we have constitutionally given ourselves this scheme, very similar to that of other countries - and in that second reading there have been modifications. We could say, following with this similitude, with that syllogism that so much liked Camba, that we are in the period of the penalties and today we will have to make, as the second golden rule of politics marks, the necessity virtue. Therefore, let us not miss this opportunity to be able to support initiatives that have already left Congress and that, with the enriching contribution of the Senate in many cases, can configure a project that has some stability in two directions fundamentally, and above all that comes to alleviate this drought situation. As I say, stability in two directions, in two directions, I suppose clearly shared by all the political groups present in the House. An economic and social first. There has been deep debate about the initiatives that can be carried out; we are a country with other naturally fortunate issues, but unfortunately in periods of drought we are particularly punished by a climate that, on the other hand, threatens to turn areas of our country into virtually desert areas. Climate change, as spokeswoman García Mira said in the first debate, is a serious, very serious issue, which must also be addressed by decrees, by proposals for legislation such as this, and I am no longer extending. On the social issue, I repeat that, apart from exemptions, apart from determined support with cash and sound money, with moderation, with rigour, with the responsibility of a party, the Socialist Party, which promoted the first Water Act in 1985 - a great law - which made the Great Water Programme in 2004, for example, to launch the desalinators, or which promoted a Law on the development and modernization of the rural environment in 2007 and to which the People's Party has scarcely given content or sufficient funding. As I say, in this context there is an initiative which, as Andalusian, affects me particularly, and which has to do with additional support for the workers in the countryside, who rightly deserve - and not at this moment anymore, but which, as I have told you, has been in this process for almost nine months - not even the twenty days, the twenty newspapers worked, but the elimination. And, having said this, it is better twenty than thirty-five. In this sense, we must also say that this measure, which is late and bad, is a measure announced by the candidate of the People's Party in Andalusia. We're used to it; the other day he announced that if he won the elections, the Sevilla-Cádiz toll would be removed. Conclusion, it's never going to take off. You'll probably also want to promise that if you win the election it'll rain. We have to tell the People's Party of Andalusia to measure up to state issues, to be responsible, and in this sense it comes late and wrong, because this is a central issue of support for rural development and we have been waiting for it for three years. My colleagues have already called for such measures in this very rostrum. I'm finishing up. This is important not for us, but for all of Spain. Thanks precisely to the measures of which Andalusia or Extremadura has often been mocked, they are not part of the empty Spain. That has been thanks to determined policies, mostly socialist, to support initiatives so that people can live wherever they want and bet on the development of their territories. [[Applauds]] And there is a second question that is fundamental. I also have the honour to chair the Committee on Climate Change, in which a law is under way - of course, it is also developing slowly, such as the subject we are discussing today; I hope that it will end well and end in a great deal of agreement such as that on water, a social, political agreement that is necessary in the face of a horizon that, from an environmental point of view, requires initiatives such as those that we have tabled in our amendments, which have to do with the disheartening. Just a decade ago the members of the People's Party were joking about the desalinators; today they are demanding them in the region of Murcia or Almería with insistence. Or the public water banks, hydrographic demarcations, which can, with transparency, with public participation, carry out an efficient and fair management of a resource that, in addition to finite, is a resource owned by everyone and everyone. We have had debates in this House on the privatization of water. Water is the fundamental natural resource for the development of our future. Therefore - and I conclude, Madam President - it is worth this time of almost nine months, this long party, to see if, even in the penalties, we win the battle to drought by alleviating the consequences and, above all, for the next time foreseeing these periods in advance and with support from the Government to farmers and livestock farmers, who are especially suffering from this circumstance. And as I mentioned to Camba, I take the opportunity, if I may, to make public a recent book of parliamentary chronicles. Camba said it was a century ago and it was time for his lordships to suck candy. I believe that today we can give a good example that, in addition to that, we do many other things useful and necessary for this country. Thank you very much and good day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Pérez Aras has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to comply with the parliamentary procedure of the bill to take action against drought; a text that returns to Congress after working in the Senate, where twenty-two amendments have been incorporated, amendments that have updated data and legislative amendments, corrected errors and improved drafting in the interest of greater conciseness and clarity. The aim of this draft law is to implement effective measures to alleviate the effects of drought on certain river basins; measures such as easing contracts for the transfer of water rights or the moratorium on the payment of social security contributions to enterprises and self-employed persons with agricultural holdings affected by drought throughout Spain. It is an effective instrument that further specifies the scope of those basins with declared drought. Articles such as the one concerning the advance of 70% of CAP aid are adapted. The Ministry of Finance is also empowered with regard to agricultural insurance, recognizing that any extension is covered by the State General Budgets Act. The operation, scope and beneficiaries of the Special Fund to Combat Drought are nuanced. Applications for unemployment or farm income subsidies are met. A necessary clarification is provided as to the origin of the budgetary appropriations necessary to deal with the measures in the draft law. The strategy of rural modernization and diversification is proposed as a tool to support women and young people as well. The cost of 0.3 euros/m3 of desalinated water is maintained, but ensuring legality with cost recovery. Another wording is also given to the drive for re-use. By the way, Mr de Compromís, I would already like you to have the same commitment in the Valencian Community, there, where you have government responsibilities, zero euros in the commitment to re-use. The Public Water Fund is also established under the premise of implementing the relevant legislative amendments, as well as a reduction in the number of newspapers to access the unemployment or agricultural income subsidy, as a demonstration of the Government's commitment to the real world. The regulation of self-consumption in line with the sustainability of the system is taken into account and the Electricity Sector Act is also amended in relation to the irrigation access contract, as well as the amendment of the competition title to add more legislative powers of the State. These are approved and negotiated amendments that demonstrate this collaborative spirit to broaden the consensus on this bill and to improve a text that articulates a series of effective measures for the benefit of our regents, our farmers and our livestock. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the recent weather truce, we are faced with a priority issue that requires our full attention. Water, as a scarce resource, requires efficient use in the face of threats and challenges that affect it. Once the Maltese trap has been overcome, the projected worldwide population growth up to 2050 will require a 60% increase in food production over those currently consumed. This will require more agricultural land, more blue water and more technology and genetics to respond to a triple challenge: increased water supply and better quality, increased production of agricultural and livestock food, and water management and governance in a climate change scenario. Leonardo da Vinci already warned that water is the driving force of all nature, it is a source of life and its scarcity endangers all biodiversity. Water is a strategic resource considered to be the main geopolitical conflict of the twenty-first century, and this consideration at the global level has its significance at the local level, in the near and near future. It is therefore necessary and urgent to call for accountability in a collaborative framework to provide and enhance legislative instruments that support and stimulate a rural world whose sustainability is at risk; environmental, social and economic sustainability, hence the importance of enabling mechanisms to help the weakest link in the chain. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that of the 16 hydrographic areas, 7 are below 42% of what the hydraulic reserve marks us today and 2 are below 30%; by the way, the two basins of southeastern Spain, that of Jucar in 26,4 and that of Segura in 16. This is a sign of the gravity of a structural problem affecting the garden of Europe, both the Valencian Community and the Murcia Region and the north-eastern part of Andalusia in a more pressing way. The lack of precipitation has caused an agronomic drought with an alarming impact on our crops. That is the reality in all its cruelty, a problem that we face and that puts at risk a whole way of life whose main purpose is to feed us. Ladies and gentlemen, what is curious and what really draws attention to is the incongruity of some of the issues that have been mentioned here by some groups, because if we have a tool, such as drought plans - by the way, in effect in each basin since 2007 and precisely approved by a socialist government - we do not understand that we have sought to deny or ignore them in a notorious way, because at the time of truth these plans have been really misunderstood in their foundation. And although work is already under way to review them, it is not understandable that having the tool for crisis situations - for what was approved - some have shown reluctance to put it into practice when it touches. Foresight and planning, ladies and gentlemen, no effective sunbathing or populist measures of impossible materialization that only generate false expectations for those who need effective solutions. Mr. Garaulet, there are no convenience pacts here, there are no secret alliances here. I'd like to know where you were when there was an arboricide here repealing the transfer of the Ebro. We do know where the People's Party was: with that sacred alliance with our farmers and livestock farmers from the very beginning. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has taken decisive action from the outset by mobilizing additional reserves for our basins. We have managed to ensure that there are no restrictions in these four years of drought, by developing more than 28 emergency actions worth more than EUR 83 million, or by granting aid for the production of desalinated water worth more than EUR 17 million, or by exempting regattas from the payment of fees and fees for water availability, which could represent aid of more than EUR 53 million. We need to move forward with a long-term vision of water management and continue to focus on improving our governance system, which has demonstrated its ability to adapt to the environment through a system of government based on planning, public participation, technological development and innovation; a system that has ensured security of supply for more than 2000 years. Hence the importance of persevering in order to achieve a national water pact, a priority that must be considered and treated as a real state policy; a pact that has extraordinary previous work done by the ministry. In four years, ladies and gentlemen, two cycles of hydrological planning - the work of two legislatures - have been developed and approved, works that already contemplate for the first time the variable of climate change; a hard work of the Government in which it has been sought to make water a battlefield to be a field of agreements; a commitment to negotiation, territorial balance and consensus. It should be remembered that these plans have the greatest support, a support never achieved at the National Water Council, and we are already working, ladies and gentlemen, on the river basin plans of the third century to comply with the European calendar. This is a serious commitment to the rural world, because our farmers do not need any more ideology, they need solutions. I ended, Madam President, by bringing to the fore the popular wisdom proper to the men and women of the countryside, an argument to that spirit of solidarity and commitment to them all. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be like the river, always forward, so that by dialogue we can reach agreements and a defined consensus among all, so that the national water pact can remain in time for the benefit of all Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u18	We turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000055 to 110/000067. Does any group wish to speak in connection with these opinions? [[Pause]] Unless otherwise stated, opinions shall be put to the vote by consensus with the rest of the votes scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u19	We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law regulating real estate credit contracts. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government for the presentation of the bill. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u20	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appear before the plenary of the Congress of Deputies to present the draft law regulating real estate credit contracts, a rule that transposes into our legal system the European Directive on credit contracts concluded with consumers for residential real estate. The objective of the Directive is to deepen the implementation of a competitive, equitable and homogeneous single European market for residential real estate credits. However, the Government has decided to go further on some aspects of transparency and consumer protection, mainly for two reasons: because of the social relevance of housing - more than 80% of Spanish families have a property - and because of the implications of the most important contract that in most cases citizens sign throughout their life, which is that of mortgage. First of all, I should like to explain to you the most relevant aspects of the directive and then to explain the points on which we have decided to be even more ambitious than European legislators. Although the directive applies only to consumers, the Government has decided that all natural persons, including self-employed workers, can be covered by these measures. In addition, the Directive gives the borrower the right to apply at any time for early repayment of the credit and establishes a compensation framework. We have opted for a more detailed regulation, determining the specific cases in which the lender may charge commission for early repayment, in whole or in part. In particular, in the case of variable-rate loans, the parties may decide between a commission of up to 0,5 % of the capital repaid in advance or of the financial loss for the institution, whichever is less, if it had been agreed that it should only be committed during the first three years since the conclusion of the contract or, alternatively, a commission of up to 0.25 % of the capital repaid in advance or of the financial loss for the institution, whichever is less, if the period agreed was five years. From the fifth year onwards, no commission may be charged for the early repayment of the loan. In the case of fixed-rate loans, the commission shall be limited to 4 % of the capital repaid in advance if the amortisation takes place during the first 10 years or to 3 % if it takes place subsequently. The third of the developments relates to loans and credits granted in foreign currency and the establishment of a foreign exchange risk hedge mechanism. In the spirit of the directive, we have for the first time incorporated into our legislation the right of consumers to apply at any time for the conversion of the loan into foreign currency to the currency in which they receive their income or from the Member State where they reside, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, it will be the euro. In the case of professional borrowers who are not consumers, this right may be replaced by another type of alternative mechanism for the coverage of exchange risk. On the other hand, the bill prohibits tied sales, i.e. those in which the consumer is forced to hire one or more financial products associated with the mortgage loan. They shall be permitted only in cases specifically authorised by the competent authority on the lender, which in most cases is the Banco de España. As regards combined sales, where one can choose between hiring a loan alone or associated with other products, financial institutions must present to their customers differentiated budgets for both scenarios where the individual cost of each of the products or services is clearly indicated. The bill also enters into the remuneration policy of lenders, which at present is not subject to any limitation. The directive requires that remuneration policy does not encourage the indiscriminate placement of mortgage loans. In order to comply with this principle, remuneration is not dependent on the number of loans marketed, thus ensuring the primacy of rigour in the analysis of solvency and the provision of information. In addition, the lender is required to assess the solvency of the borrower in accordance with specific internal procedures that do not focus exclusively on the value of the asset that serves as collateral. Another new aspect of this bill relates to the legal regime established for real estate credit intermediaries and lenders who are not credit institutions. The directive requires that these types of actors be recognised in advance and that their obligations are monitored. These requirements are more specifically regulated in the draft law. On the one hand, it obliges intermediaries and lenders to be duly registered and supervised by the Banco de España or by the competent autonomous authority in the case of those operating only in an autonomous community or in a community and in other Member States and, on the other hand, introduces the Community passport regime for real estate credit intermediaries authorised to operate at national level. Finally, the standard sets new requirements for knowledge and competition for staff who market mortgage loans in order to promote transparency and the smooth functioning of the market. Our bill goes even beyond what is required by Community law and sets out a number of precepts to strengthen transparency and contractual balance between the parties. Building confidence and security in the mortgage market is essential to avoid credit restrictions. The proposed standard acts in several ways. Firstly, it encourages the conversion of variable-type loans to fixed-rate so that borrowers know precisely the cost they are going to incur in the medium and long term and can be financially planned. This favours the objective novation of the loan and subrogation of the creditor by setting lower commissions than those for early repayment. Specifically, the maximum fees shall be 0,25 % of the capital repaid in advance if it occurs during the first three years of the contract. From the fourth financial year onwards, no commission will have to be paid for such operations. In the same line, the notarial and registrar tariffs applicable to the conversion of variable rate loans to fixed rate are lowered. These incentives shall apply to all existing contracts, even if they have been signed before the entry into force of this Act. The second way to improve transparency is through the strengthening of information requirements, both in the pre-contractual phase and at the time of the signing of the contract before the notary. Thus, in the pre-contractual phase, the lender is required to deliver at least seven days before the signature of the contract a set of documents: the European standard information sheet, which shall be considered binding for at least one week and which, as stipulated in the Directive, must contain the basic terms of the mortgage, such as the amount, the interest rate, the fees or the amortisation table; in addition to the European requirements, a standardized warning sheet informing of any type of clause or particularly sensitive element, such as the ground clauses, the distribution of expenses, the loan currency, among other examples; if the loan is at variable rate, a projection of different scenarios of quota developments depending on the potential evolution of the interest rates; a copy of the draft contract; information on the associated insurance and its conditions; and a warning to the lender of the obligation to receive personalized and free advice from the notary of his choice. The borrower, for his part, will be obliged to appear before the notary during this period prior to the signature to receive specific and free advice on the terms of his contract, ensuring that he is fully aware of all the legal and economic implications of the contract. As regards the procurement phase, i.e. the time of signature before the notary, the project strengthens the control of notaries and registrars over the content of the contract. Write-off will not be authorized if it is not believed that the lender has provided the pre-contractual information seven days earlier to the borrower and that the borrower has received specific and free advice and includes all the information included. Contracts that include unfair terms may not be authorized or entered into. In order to ensure the effectiveness of this measure, the draft law amends the regulation of the general register of conditions of contract in relation to the registration of judgements declaring unfair contractual clauses. On the other hand, notaries and registrars will be strengthened by the sanctioning regime to which they are subject to ensure that they adequately comply with these new monitoring and reporting obligations. Another matter in which the draft law is more ambitious than the directive is that of the early maturity clauses for loans, which are the most conflict - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - they have generated. The bill regulates this regime through mandatory rules that prevent any possible abusive conduct or discretion in its application. The objective is to ensure that the early maturity occurs only when the ratio between the unpaid amount and the total amount of the loan is sufficiently significant to avoid its application in cases of minor non-compliance. Thus, the early maturity declaration will depend on the number of instalments due and not met, but also on the life phase of the loan in which the default occurs. If the loan takes place in the first half of the life of the loan it will be necessary to have nine monthly instalments or the equivalent of 2 % of the capital granted, and if the default takes place in the second half of the life of the contract it shall amount to 4 % of the capital granted or 12 monthly instalments. This treatment will apply from the entry into force of the law to all contracts in force and not only to those that are signed under this new regulation. Similarly, the bill requires that the maximum interest rate applicable is three times the legal interest of the current money and can only be calculated in relation to the principal outstanding. Finally, the project empowers the Government to approve a standard contract to which the parties may benefit if they deem it appropriate. It is a standard mortgage contract regulated by royal decree, which will be simple, easy to understand, transparent and that does not generate any kind of doubt or alternative interpretations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an ambitious and necessary bill, not just because it transposes a European directive but because it goes beyond the protection of mortgage debtors, who will benefit from important developments. Firstly, a reduction in early cancellation fees. Secondly, a reduction in commissions for the conversion of variable-rate loans into fixed-rate loans, which will completely disappear from the fourth year of the contract. Third, the right to change the currency in which the contract is signed or to access other foreign exchange risk-covering mechanisms. Fourth, more demanding information requirements both before and during the signing of contracts. Fifthly, greater control by registrars and notaries over the content of contracts and their clauses. Sixth, a much more secure early maturity regulation in favour of consumers and, lastly, limits on interest rates applicable in cases of delay. In addition, the Government will regulate a standard contract that can be used by lenders and clients voluntarily. All this will serve to increase the competition and dynamism of the system and thus the activity of the entire Spanish economy, but will also improve transparency in a particularly sensitive area for consumers and thereby raise their level of protection. In this regard, allow me to recall that this rule is complemented by the rest of the provisions adopted in recent years to protect vulnerable persons in the event that they are unable to fulfil their contractual obligations. Thus, the code of good banking practice, suspension of launches or second chance competition reforms will continue to apply to eligible families. As I am sure that all the objectives pursued by this bill are shared by the whole House, I ask the United Group to reconsider the amendment to the whole that it has tabled and to contribute, like the rest of the political formations, to improving the text with its contributions during its parliamentary process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u21	Thank you very much. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled I have the floor by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u22	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we want to say and make it clear that the proposals contained in our alternative text are not proposals that belong to the United We can and pay tribute to the social organisations that during all these years have defended the interests of the social majority in the face of systematic human rights violations that have resulted in forced evictions without housing alternatives and in condemnations of perpetual debts. [[Applauds]] We would also like to pay tribute to the anonymous and anonymous lawyers who, from their desks, did not give up when they were told that the right to a defence could not be exercised in the proceedings for the execution of a mortgage. Thanks to them and to them and to the social struggle on the streets of so many people it was possible for the Court of Justice of the European Union to argue that our country systematically fails to comply with consumer legislation, fails to fulfil the right to a fair trial. We wanted to raise something that is more than obvious. Yesterday Mr De Guindos argued in the European Parliament that he has never been a Member and that he is an independent man, and to the faith that he is, that he is not a man dependent on any party, he is a man of finance in the state, and to the faith that he has done so throughout this time in a coherent way and, therefore, all the rules that he has brought to this House have been negotiated with the financial institutions, which are the interests that he has come to defend here. What we want to say is that in our text we have tried to reflect the demands of social organizations and human rights bodies but, beyond what is adopted today, dialogue remains open and, apart from presenting this proposed law, this alternative text in this House, we will do so before social organizations and human rights organizations to bring to the discussion process in this House the contributions that come from people... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u24	... that has shown us during all these years that we must not give up, even if the powerful tell us that nothing is possible. This is a project that comes out of time, wrong, out of time and that is costing us 105 000 euros a day to everyone, that does not pay those who have accounts in Panama but that pays them most of the working people in this country. It is absolutely unacceptable that this should happen because what is being evaded is the obligation to comply with the law, because unfortunately in this matter the PP government has kept the state out of the European and international law on human rights. [[Applauds]] Our country has an obligation to transpose Directive 2014/17 of the European Union, but it also has an obligation to comply with the judgment of the Aziz case of 2013; the Sánchez Morcillo judgment of 2014; the Peñalva López judgment of 2015; the Gutiérrez Naranjo judgment of 2016; and that of the Primus Bank of 2017. Unfortunately, the text that the Government is bringing us does not comply with them, once again, keeps our country out of the law and it is necessary, once and for all, to put an end to that situation. The only thing we are going to raise is a simple question, that people have to have the right to a fair trial and that the Aziz case ruling said that the Spanish regulation governing mortgage enforcement does not comply with European rules, that is, that it does not allow the right to defend the mortgaged people. And the following sentences come to say that it is not done. I am going to quote an article that I urge your ladies and gentlemen to read, section 698 of the Civil Prosecution Act, because it says one thing that I think everyone will understand, and it is that, according to Spanish law, you are first executed and discussed later; that is, if you have sued the bank for an abusive clause or for an abusive practice, the bank can execute you and then it will be discussed in the ordinary trial if you were or were not right. The Court of Justice of the European Union, with good judgment, says that this is barbarity because it violates the right to a fair trial and that that must be changed. Since 2013 unfulfilled. And why isn't it fulfilled? Obviously, because financial institutions are not interested and this Government is a government that defends the interests of financial institutions and speculators. [[Applauds]] We have an obligation to comply with international human rights law. I have said this in this rostrum several times, but it is that human rights organizations are saying it, and the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Comment 7 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, to which our State is a party, and also now with an optional protocol, with procedures and opinions against which they are binding. To see, simple, easy to understand for everyone: forced evictions without housing alternatives are prohibited and are a violation of human rights, and this rule has to be adapted to that. [[Applauds]] Another simple thing that comes to answer to reality, because this is a law full of scars and suffering of our people, is that it turns out that people were given mortgage loans before and after the crisis for an amount supposedly of the same value of the mortgaged property and they were left with perpetual debts. Why was that? There are two articles of the Mortgage Act, 105 and 140, which turn out to be optional for the parties to decide. Do you know what's going on? That in mortgage loans, which are to access a commodity of first necessity, the conditions are the financial institutions. What have been the conditions they have always laid down? Universal responsibility, I mean, I take away your house and I sentence you to a lifetime debt. We and we believe that this is an abuse that has been perpetrated by all the financial institutions of this country and that it is necessary for the State, once and for all, to stand on the side of the population, that is, to limit the debt to the mortgaged asset: limited liability, article 140 of the Mortgage Law, which is imperative for consumers. That if you want to make a personal loan, it's a personal loan, and if it's a mortgage, it's a mortgage. But, please, let's avoid fooling people, which is what financial institutions have been doing all this time. We also thought it was important to talk about early maturity, we have commented. But I will correct one thing, Minister, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union must be reviewed: no rule can moderate the content of a contract. I will tell you something very simple that has cost some judges in our country and has been reminded by the Court of Justice of the European Union: what is null is null and is taken for granted. [[Applauds]] If the early maturity clauses included in the contracts of the working people of this country are null, there is no law to remedy it, there is no early maturity clause in that contract. It is easy to understand, though hard to assume by the balance sheets of financial institutions that are sustained about the suffering of many people in this country. It's as simple as knowing who we owe the money to, you'll have to know who our creditor is on a mortgage loan. It would be interesting to know, I say! For mortgage securitization funds make it difficult to know who you owe the money to. And what did this mean? That there have been many banks that have executed loans that are not theirs, and that must end. What there has to be is the right to know to whom we owe the money, that is, that if it is to be titrated, it is entered in the Property Registry so that all people know who is legitimized to ask for the debt, because there are thousands of foreclosure procedures without active legitimation by financial institutions in which it is being executed without being legitimized to do so by financial institutions. We also believe that it is necessary to provide traffic safety. When we talk about road safety, everyone has it clear. When we talk about road safety, if a gentleman or a lady who is dedicated to skipping traffic lights, he is fined, and if he does so in a systematic way, endangering people's lives, he is left without the possibility of driving. What we are proposing is something simple, to give some security to traffic, that is to say to avoid what we were told when they made the decree of the ground clauses, do you remember?, which turns out that they made it difficult to defend the mortgaged persons by taking their backs in the judicial proceedings, supposedly to avoid litigation. We propose a better way to avoid litigation, Minister. We are going to tell the banks: if we engage them with unfair terms in contracts, we sanction them, and if we engage them many times, we take away the possibility of granting mortgage loans, for infringing traffic security in our country. [[Applauds]] We are not proposing great things, we are simply proposing that European and international human rights legislation be complied with, a small step. The text we put forward is the basic text to discuss with the groups as a whole, to enrich it with the groups as a whole. But the question is, who do we want to do it with, with what text do we want to do it with, with Mr De Guindos' text, which is the text that comes from the hands of financial institutions, or with ours as the base text? The result that comes out of here is not going to be the text of Unidad Podemos, not even the contents of our text are ours because, I insist again, they are part of the contributions that civil society has been making all this time. But I tell you one more thing, Minister, there is a principle of European law that must be complied with when talking about consumer law, which is the principle of pro-consumer law. What do you mean? That the State has to stand on the side of the weak side and here there is a weak side that is the population and a strong part, that has been accredited to abuse the population, that are the financial institutions. We have to position ourselves. The State is not impartial but is in the process of eliminating inequalities and protecting the weak from abuses by the strong. That is why we want this law to put the state on the side of people in front of speculators and vultures. I want to tell you one more thing. During all these years of crisis our people have taught us many things, but essentially one: that hope overcomes fear and that, when the people below move, it can. Thank you. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, back to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u25	At the time of fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u26	Egun on. Euskal Herria Bildu will support the amendment as a whole because he understands that it provides us with a better starting point to make a law that really protects consumers from banking and does not favour the latter, as the Government wants to do, as if there are no judgments that remind him that he is not protecting the interests of consumers. It is no use to the Government for innumerable sentences against the abusive clauses that are now being legalized through its proposal, which is totally unacceptable. Not only that, the Government shares the fear of the banks of what the European Court of Justice can decide and that these clauses can be declared null and void, and instead of waiting for the judgment, it is going to reform the law, legalize the interest of delay, when it knows that the judgment is likely to be prevented, as well as open a mortgage enforcement procedure since the bank could only claim on the dues and not on the totality of the outstanding capital. And all this even though the Supreme had already overturned the interests of undue delay. We therefore believe it is right that the amendment should limit these to a maximum of 2 points above the remuneration interest, since, if the Government's draft is approved, it will be tripled to what is being charged today. I barely have a couple of minutes and I cannot get into all the issues, but I find the subject of material transparency interesting with control measures that would make it possible not to include potentially abusive clauses. We cannot continue to subject citizens to clauses that are being withdrawn from court sentences, that come after having had negative effects on consumers for years and that many do not recover. It would be good if the Banco de España or the competent bodies in each territory had real and not merely informational powers, or if a judicial body was set up to perform that function, but it was effective and preventive, along with the necessary punitive measures. I conclude with two other issues which I think it is important to point out from the amendment and which should be discussed, which we will be discussing if we have an opportunity in the future: the issue of early expiry, mentioned by Mr Mayoral - another abusive clause - and all about the competences of the autonomous communities and respect for their ability to increase the protection of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u27	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. They will allow me a joke: Rafa, it could have been said lower, but no clearer. [[Laughter]] In that sense, I want to say that Compromís is going to support this amendment as a whole, of course, because in this House one must know which side it is on. We are with the people, with the people, with whom they suffer these abuses of the big companies and obviously we are not going to be with the banks. We will vote in favour, but it will not be approved, and if it were approved, what we all know would happen: endless history. See, the Valencian Statute has had forty-eight extensions of amendments since November 2016; the Constitutional Court Act, since February 2017, thirty-eight extensions of amendments; the Law bites, since April 2017, twenty-nine periods of enlargement amendments; the Pardon Act, since March 2017, thirty-two; education, since December 2016, forty-one; dependency, since April 2016, thirty, and the minimum wage, since September 2016, forty extensions of periods amendments. This is what we're talking about. This is the Legislative Power, here we are to legislate, not to prevent it from being legislated, and some are preventing this House from legislating, for good or for bad. I remember the PP's absolute majority legislature and at this point I didn't know how many laws. Now, Minister, beyond some transpositions of European mandates, little. I'm done. There's a lot of theater here, a lot of posture, a lot of farce, or I'll say it with Mr. Rajoy's words: a rigor, which is a dance to two. Mr Rivera and Mr Rajoy here say everything, but then, in the Bureau, they prevent all these laws from being discussed, and it is laws - and I conclude, Madam President, thank you very much for your kindness - that affect people's lives, that is what we are talking about; and that is what the people of us expect: that we legislate, not that we dance a vigour one week yes and another too. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u29	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, if any criticism can be made to the Government and can be made to all together, this legislative initiative will surely come late. Indeed, Directive 2014/17 is partially transposed but could have been done earlier. However, I say to you that our group is going to table amendments to the text that the Government is presenting because we believe it is better. But I have to be honest, we also thank them for putting this to us in advance, and we already told them that some aspects we did not share but that we understood that parliamentary procedure should be started. It seems to us right that in some respects it goes beyond the directive itself; that the self-employed and entrepreneurs, when they put their usual housing at risk, are welcomed by this legislation seems to us to be a good thing. On the other hand, we are not going to support the Podemos initiative, not because there are not some aspects that we can share - even some of the fifteen additional provisions that it proposes - we can support in the parliamentary process, but you did not consult us at all with the alternative text. I am not going to make any criticism of you because you have presented it and, therefore, that already honors you. We understand that it is quite improveable at least from a technical point of view and on some content and, in any case, we are working together with the whole House to improve the text whose parliamentary procedure is to begin today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u31	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u32	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on, good morning. I would like to make a number of reflections, because we are already being told that the law presented by the Government is a bad law, that it does not solve anything and that it obeys banking interests, but I believe that the issue does not have to go these ways or extremes. The financial crisis has shown bad regulation, excessive credit growth and bad practice of the entities in granting them, but not of all, because there are also those who have not done so badly, and there have also been people who have been more or less cautious at the time asking for credit. What I want to say is that the attribution of faults depends not only on the limited mortgage regulation or the bad practice of banking entities, but also on other factors, so we have to try to strike a balance in the whole regulation, taking into account the need to give greater protection to people who are in debt to buy a home or a real estate. A banking entity must be cautious, rigorous and prudent in granting credit, so that the risk analysis must preside over this concession, but we must also remember that its business is to lend money and that the response to certain specific measures that are demanded about housing is also in the hands of the autonomous communities that have competence in this area. After all this, economic operators will have learned something. Having said that, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our political formation is not going to support this amendment as a whole and we are going to try to reason with it. We understand that it is an important law - of the most important ones to be dealt with - and I believe that in this we will all agree, because, as I said, it is a consequence of the financial crisis that Spain has experienced that led to a massive irresponsible granting of credits with terrible consequences for many families. In addition, we are in a society that has normally accepted the fact of being mortgaged to buy a house and financial institutions have used this figure to attract families and customers and also sell them another series of cross-product. It is therefore a law resulting from the numerous judgments of the European courts and from the transposition of Directive 2014/17/EU, which echoed the consequences of the crisis. It is true that the directive had to have been transposed in 2016, a considerable delay being noted that, in our modest opinion, is also partly attributable to the government. I would also like to reflect on the proposed amendment group as a whole. In reading your amendment and the proposed text, we agree with some reflections on both the explanatory statement and some parts of the article. They should also be recognized for the work they have done in bringing this alternative text, which is very easy to compare, as it follows the same structure as that presented by the Government. Some articles literally coincide and others are specified much more, such as the TAE. There is also a new articulation, especially in the field of mortgage securitisation, and in others it differs from that of the Government, for example in the interests of delay. But we do not agree with the same one hundred percent because, moreover, our group - I have to say - has already begun to work with the text forwarded by the Government that we have valued positively as it regulates hitherto unregulated issues: conversion of loans into foreign currency and others such as the inclusion of the autonomous, information to the borrower, solvency, early maturity, as well as competitive issues that for us are very important because the points of connection for the attribution of competence to the autonomous communities in certain aspects regulated by the draft law are addressed. In short, we believe that it is aimed at a regulation in which risk-taking is more prudent and which has flexible formulas for the development of the loan in the face of adverse circumstances. We therefore believe that it would be better to put all groups to work on this first text and to move the amendments that are needed because, in addition to the fact that we believe that it would be more operational at the moment, it will also benefit citizens and achieve a balance between the rights and obligations of all operators involved in this field, thus resolving the outstanding challenges in this area. Because stable and precise mortgage regulation is essential because, in addition, the housing market generates very important impacts on the economy as a whole. Nor do we agree with the Government's proposal for 100 per cent. That is why we believe that the parliamentary procedure should be continued without delay, that we should put forward amendments and, among all of us, that we should agree. In this regard, I would like to remind the proposing group that we have already had the opportunity to work on another far-reaching law, the Public Sector Contracts Act, in which we have reached a broad consensus among all, which has allowed us to have a very different law from the one presented and, more importantly, a much improved law. We must not forget that the current parliamentary arithmetic opens up the possibility of reaching agreements between different, achieving a more effective, efficient and balanced law for all operators in terms of their rights and obligations and consequences, as I have already said. Furthermore, we also agree with some of the issues raised by you where, through amendments and also where there are differences, agreements could be reached. I have to comment that many of you and I have complained many times that the Government makes excessive use of the royal decree-law, many times without the possibility of being treated as a bill. Since we have this possibility, we'd better use it. It is essential to have a strengthened regulation of the real estate credit contract as soon as possible and it is that mortgage is the main instrument for acquiring a home or other real estate. When citizens, entrepreneurs or businesswomen hire a real estate loan they are in debt for a long period of time, so it is necessary that they are clearly aware not only of the product they hire, but also of the risks they take. It is necessary to restore confidence in the financial sector lost, among other reasons, by the irresponsible action of lenders in the granting of loans which has made borrowers have many difficulties in dealing with such loans. It should also serve to improve consumer protection and also to ensure that judges have safer rules for decision-making. Our group is therefore going to stand against this amendment in its entirety, but we also express a willingness not only to amend it in part, but also to be able to agree and negotiate those amendments that involve other groups because, in the end, we believe that more transparent regulation is necessary, which guarantees greater information, protection and safety when it comes to hiring these products. This is not about sides or sides, as Mr Baldoví said, but about achieving a sensible balance and regulation for all operators in this sector. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u33	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u34	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez have been deprived of their liberty for 122 days, they are political prisoners, like the Vice President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Oriol Junqueras, and the Councillor d'Interior, Joaquim Forn, who have been in 105 days. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Minister, Mr De Guindos, for presenting us late with a draft law regulating real estate credit contracts, and also badly, let me tell you, from the point of view of Esquerra Republicana. We are already used to presenting the projects late, failing to comply with European directives. This I have already told you on more than one occasion from this rostrum, it is already a classic of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. You, who point us so hard with your finger to those who - as you say - do not comply with the law, are always with Damocles' sword, always with a sanctioning process, always with the threat of a fine to the Spanish State. This is true of countless bills and directives that need to be transposed. What don't we like about your bill, Mr. De Guindos? Here I have to thank the enormous work of users' and consumers' organizations and associations, including Adicae, who have opened our eyes to many of these aspects, as the spokesman for Unite Podemos, Mr Mayoral, has already announced. To begin with, as various user associations have denounced, it is a law that does not protect the consumer, but represents a clear setback and a worsening of its position regarding the current imbalance that already exists in relation to banking. It's a classic, the bank always wins and, besides, it wins a lot. In fact, again, this bill does not solve well almost any of the most serious problems arising in Spain as a result of the crisis, which have been answered in the courts and, as always, have had to be answered in the European courts. What things! In the end, we will always have Europe, because if we have to rely on the Spanish courts, we will be aviated. I will address issues that we do not like about your bill, for example, the moratorium interest. Its bill provides for a single moratorium interest, which triples the current one and raises it to almost 9 per cent, despite the doctrine of the Supreme Court. What need do banks need to abuse consumers and savers at risk of exclusion again? As far as early maturity clauses are concerned, the scheme defined in your proposal also does not comply with European case law. In terms of transparency, notaries and registrars - by the way, the College of Registrars has complained about its bill, it does not like it as it is reflected - they understand - and not only do the notaries say, but also the General Council of the Spanish Bar - that you, with this bill, try to make material transparency disappear, trying to make the mere provision of information a proof that control has been exceeded and putting forward the participation of the notary with a role that ends up only benefiting the usual: financial entities, banking entities. Why do we like the alternative text of Unidad Podemos? We do not like everything you propose, but we like it more than what you have proposed from the Government, so it is clear that we will give it our support. To begin with, try to put on the table the global view of the housing problem. You will tell me that this now does not touch and that it is the subject of other laws and other political actions, but you will agree that this affects what concerns you so much, social demand, that is, whether there really is a will on the street for certain things to be regulated. It is clear that yes, and that would be to give effect to article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, that Constitution which you so much like to invoke. Start with these issues on which there is a social demand on the street: to guarantee the right to housing, to decent housing, to promote the rental regime and to enhance a public social rental park. [[The Lord]] The alternative text to the bill proposed by Unido Podemos goes that way, and even if it were just for this aspect, we would support it. It also talks about greater transparency and clarity of contracts, as well as the protection of those who are going to buy housing and, therefore, seeks to reinforce the necessary balance that must exist between the parties in any legal-contractual relationship. Likewise, the guarantees of one who is in a situation of weakness vis-à-vis another that, as we have seen over many years, that is, since the birth of the bank, is always in a situation of pre-eminence. As a novelty, the right of the borrower to repay on a general basis all or part of the loan without having to bear commissions or compensation for the lender. Notaries and registrars are also prohibited from authorizing the registration of contracts or business with clauses contrary to rules declared void by the Supreme Court and by the European Court of Justice, which also amended the plan to the Supreme Court. Things happen in Spain! It also encourages subrogation and changes in loans when they aim to change the variable interest to a fixed interest. I'm finalizing, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President. One aspect with which we do not agree - and the Republican Left has consistently denounced it - is the introduction of the payment of the usual housing, something that we have always understood as the great misery, is true. It is true that until now it meant that you continued to owe money to the bank, but, in any case, it has been the great misery for us, because in the end it has been a lot of people who have stayed on the street, and it has ultimately been the local administrations and the autonomous communities that have had to seek a solution, I repeat, not the State, but the local administrations and the autonomous communities. If I may, Mr President, I conclude by saying that we are dealing with a proposal - your proposal, Mr De Guindos, the draft law that you are presenting to us today - which represents a clear setback and a worsening of the consumer's position vis-à-vis the lender with regard to the imbalance situation that already exists with the current law. What we are talking about here is not the dilemma of whether to favour banking or saving citizens, because you are already clear who you want to benefit: how we can favour banking without looking like it. What Philip V said when he advocated questions relating to Catalonia, that is, that the effect is achieved without notice of care, you apply it to the constant aid to the bank, and this bill, according to the opinion of Squerra Republicana, is a clear example of this. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning, Minister, I will not talk to you about the deadlines for the transposition, because I have already reminded you in previous sessions and I think it is worth reminding you this time. This morning we discussed a bill and an amendment to the whole, presented to us by the United Group We can, on a very important law, very important for the people it affects, because virtually all Spaniards have to sign a mortgage when it comes to acquiring our home, and very important because of the consequences this signature entails. It's a loan, a contract that lasts more than 20 years on average, a longer duration than weddings are currently, so we can get an idea, and it's a big investment for families, as it's the biggest investment a person makes throughout his or her life. Therefore, given how important this contract is to people, we must make it clear that we must make clear, precise and clear regulation that gives legal certainty to all operators, but above all and above all that protects and guarantees consumers' rights. We must protect consumers from the abuses and bad practices that banks have been doing. I will simply give you some information about what has happened in Spain in recent years. The last report of the General Council of the Judiciary indicated that in 2007 25,943 mortgage executions were filed and that in 2010 their maximum number was reached, with a total of 93,636. For you to get an idea of what this means, it comes to be the equivalent of the population of a city like Santiago de Compostela. It is true that since that maximum they have been reduced and that in 2016 48,410 mortgage executions were presented, but still the figures are too high. In the recent conclusions of the dean judges of Madrid, some conclusions of October 2017, it was said that in just four and a half months, in Madrid alone, 22,234 cases had been submitted in relation to individual actions on general conditions of recruitment. With these figures, which we must never forget that they represent people, we can get an idea of the magnitude of the problem. So far, unfortunately and as usual, it has had to be Europe, through the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the directives it has promoted, which has tried to solve the problem and defend consumers. We believe that the time has come to protect once and for all all those who sign a mortgage, that the bank and the borrower are on an equal footing and that the mortgage is not a burden that burdens people's lives for the rest of their lives. While acknowledging that there are many gaps in the draft law that need to be resolved and that this is a transposition of minimums of the European directive, we believe that the path that the Podemos Group has taken is not the right one. That is why we will table many profound amendments in the appropriate procedure, but we will not support your amendment in its entirety, because we do not think it is sensible or realistic. You are proposing, for example, universal payment, an issue on which we have doubts. Do you consider that it is the same as a family that has bought a flat and cannot pay that person who buys a chalet of one million euros? We believe that it is not the same and that they should not be treated the same, so that is an issue we must enter into. On the other hand, you demonise the banking institutions and with your proposal you would practically charge the banking sector. We know that what you would like would be to have a public bank in the style of savings banks, which have cost all the Spaniards EUR 60 billion, but even if you don't like the banking sector, or rather, just like the banking sector you control, we believe it is necessary for the economy to grow. Besides, you talk a lot, and we can agree on many things, but then, when the time of truth comes, we see that you do not fulfill. Mrs Carmena promised to make four thousand social homes and we see that she will finish her term without having reached a thousand. Those are the realities and that's what you do after talking so much. We do care about those who have gone wrong or those who have fallen. We believe that it is necessary to help them to rise again, so we present a second chance law, so that those who have fallen may rise again, a law that we hope you will support. Of course, we are also concerned about consumers and, therefore, in the investment agreement we proposed the creation of an independent consumer protection authority, so that it is not the Banco de España that protects the consumer, because there is a clear and clear conflict of interest if the Banco de España is committed on the one hand to protecting the consumer and on the other to protecting the solvency of the bank. We therefore have to separate the two institutions, but unfortunately we see that it is also difficult for the Government to comply with this. We believe that the bill is unclear and, as usual, unambitious. There are elements that are not well regulated and that can cause problems; there are too many references to ministerial rules; the concept of irresponsible credit is not well collected: what is it, when it happens and what consequences it has; it does not introduce a novel topic that could be good for Spain, such as that of positive solvency files; it does not adequately solve the problem of valuations or what happens to pre-existing contracts; and it must also review the regulation that has been made of interest delays. In short, and to conclude, we believe that the Government's project does not solve the problem definitively, nor does it guarantee that in a few years' time we will not have a new crisis like the one we have suffered, but the path that Podemos proposes is not the right one either. We will therefore vote against the amendment as a whole, but we are already telling you that we are waiting for you in the process of amendments - we believe that we will be able to find ourselves on many issues - and that we will do a thorough revision of the bill there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a mortgage reform, a housing policy should, in our view, seek at least three objectives: firstly, social access to housing for young people, for citizens; secondly, a real balance between consumers and financial institutions and not to be as risky as it has been in previous years from financial institutions to consumers; and, thirdly, to cut off the speculation that led us to a financial and economic horse crisis. Do these three objectives meet the Government's text? No, no, I already expected it, on the other hand, because it is a text that is, as always, on the side of financial institutions: they drag their feet; in fact, financial institutions are comfortable. If you follow the statements of the principal leaders of these entities, you are not against the Government's plan. This is the reality. Therefore, my surprise has been zero; indeed, the objectives I raised at the beginning of my speech were not going to be met. But my surprise comes when I started reading the text of Podemos, because we can share objectives, principles, values, but the text is very important, and it does not resolve the shortcomings of the text of the Government and, in some cases, the consumer may be more unprotected in relation to financial institutions. This is a fundamental problem. With your intervention, Mr Mayoral, the same has happened to me as to Mrs Ada Colau in relation to housing, because she first raised the survivors and in the end she has ended the barracks for the people who have the most difficulties of Catalan society. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Mayor, I can agree with many of the things that you said in your speech, but what is being voted on today is not the statements of the speakers here or the speeches, what is being voted on is the text; not even the statement of principles, but the text. That is very important; we shall now discuss the text. That's, I insist, the important thing. Speeches are not voted on. We can agree with the principles, but the vote is on the text. [[Applauds]] And that is very important, because at the moment there is an obvious lack of consumer protection and horse speculation, and that is what we have to correct with the text and the alternative that the Socialist Party is proposing. With regard to what the Government has put forward, I have some things to say. Firstly - because it is nuclear - transparency control must not be merely formal, but must ensure effective knowledge and understanding. In other words, financial institutions have to ensure that consumers know the legal, economic and social consequences of what they are signing. That is not in the text of the Government, but it is not in the text of Podemos, unfortunately. Secondly, we think - and we have said this in our electoral programme - that there must be an independent authority for the defence of the financial consumer. For what? To control the advertising carried out by financial institutions. For what? To impose sanctions. That's what we're proposing. That is not in the Government's text and neither is it in Podemos' text. [[Applauds]] It's very important. We are talking about nuclear issues for consumer protection. In the Government's text there is neither the payment nor the regulation of the payment, ladies and gentlemen, but neither is the text of Podemos; nor is payment or the regulation of the payment favoured. Neither is he, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] It sounds amazing, but it does. Another nuclear element for consumers, for citizens, for young people, no longer just for the Socialist Group, is the assessment of the borrower's solvency by financial institutions. Monitoring of the protocols is not included either by the Bank of Spain, the financial consumer protection authority or a macro-prudential authority. This is not included and is basic to, among other things, avoid speculation in the future. That is not in the text of the Government nor in the text of Podemos. Are these nuclear issues for the Socialist Group? No, no, It is a demand from consumer associations, it is an obvious and fundamental issue. Therefore, the programmatic principles are very important, always, in all political work, but in addition to the programmatic principles, rigour is very important, because, if not, consumers can be worse than they are at the moment, and that is to say. In relation to the text of Podemos, a couple more questions. First, it is concluded that there is a difference between borrower rights according to the autonomous community where they live, that is, there would be first-rate mortgage consumers in our country and second-rate mortgage consumers. It goes against the ruling of the Constitutional Court. It eliminates the competence of the Banco de España. We believe this cannot be. All Spaniards have to have the same rights in relation to the mortgage consumer, and here are Spanish first and Spanish second from the point of view of the mortgage consumer. And, of course - I finish already - the nullity of the loan, as it is proposed for lower incomes, given the fact that the bank does not do its job, would imply that the consumer gets hurt because he would have to return the entire loan, and that is not the way. The way is to declare non-transparent clauses null and void. That's the way, that's what the experts advise, not to disadvantage the small consumer. I shall now finish, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. What is being voted on here today is not the text of the Government, but the amendment to the whole of Podemos. We do not even vote for the speeches that have been made here, which - I insist - we can share. The vote was taken on the joint text. From our point of view - I finish already - that articulated text not only does not solve the government's shortcomings - is a text that is on the side of financial institutions, but it can also harm the consumer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two of the brightest pages written by the Spanish liberals of the 19th century to end the Old Regime were to consider Spain a nation of free, equal citizens and subject to the rule of law and to suppress the lordship of the land. I begin this way because in this context we have to understand what we are proposing today, which is the reform of the Mortgage Law. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. The whole liberalization process of land that took place in the 19th century was made for the purpose of incorporating it into trade, trade as real estate and trade as a guarantee for obtaining money, sufficient credit to be able to access property. However, this was not easy, because it was not known under what conditions the property was to be acquired, there was no registration. Hence the great success of the legislator, the Liberals of 1961, was to institute the Property Registry. Buyers could know the situation in which they were acquiring and those who gave credit knew exactly what the quality of the security right they offered him in exchange for his money. If the Mortgage Law of 1861 instituted the Property Registry to protect buyers and mortgage creditors from powerful third parties - remember that we were in the years of de-amortization -, the Mortgage Law of 2018, this reform, is born to protect us from the abusive clauses present or that may arise in the future, imposed by those who have a dominant position in the contractual relationship. If you study the history of Spanish mortgage legislation you can see that it is a succession of steps to protect those who want to buy real estate and have no money to do so but you can get it by offering as collateral the mortgaged property. This is what we do today, take steps to protect the buyers. In this context, Mr Mayoral, it is clear that further steps can always be taken in favour of security, in favour of protecting buyers and lenders, in favour of rebalancing the relationship. It is true that many more steps can be taken in favour of transparency, it is true, but it will also recognise with me that we cannot forget that 80% of the families in our country, in the middle classes of our country, today have a property, which makes us think that the mortgage market, with problems, with defects, has worked properly. You can speak on behalf of the anti-discharge platforms, but the first reforms that were made to protect the most vulnerable who were evicted were precisely measures taken by the People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] A social housing fund was set up in 2012 when there were no housing, almost 10,000 houses; the first postponements were made; more than 90,000 people have benefited, including those who have rented, those who have not been launched because they have been postponed or those who have benefited from debt restructuring. And on behalf of those people, who was talking? Do you know what you were doing while we were legislating in favour of the most vulnerable, of those 90,000 families that have benefited? I'm going to tell you: among other things, to surround our homes by making us crash; among other things, those. [[Applauds]] We must continue to take steps, Mr Mayor, with serenity, in favour of seeking balance. You seem to do so when you say on page 3 of your explanatory statement: 'Enable legal certainty, transparency and understanding of contracts'. But I say it seems because in truth its purpose is not that, its purpose is another. In the end, all the measures you propose end in a consequence, and you determine that the fee you have to pay for those who want to buy a home is higher. The Mortgage Law, in its article 140, provides for payment, as you well know, but no credit institution offers it, among other things because the way to be competitive, i.e. to offer lower rates, is without payment, because to the extent that the guarantee offered is lower, the fee to be paid will be higher, because the interest rate will be higher as well. So, what you're looking for is for new buyers to get the fees they have to pay. What do you think would happen to the quota that new home buyers have to pay if it turns out that they can change, as you say in your amendment, all the terms of the contracts, even those signed before the current law, in order to adapt them to the current one? What do you think will happen to the mortgage terms? Look, I'm not talking to you about unconstitutionality, Mr. Mayor, I'm asking you what you think is going to happen to the fee if one of the parties to the contract thinks the other can change it because the law grants you that right. What do you think will happen to the quotas? What do you think will happen to the quota, Mr Mayoral, if you can review all the mortgage execution procedures since 2013? What do you think is going to happen to the quotas in the end? [[Major Perales: That's illegal.]] In the end, with its amendment to the whole, with quotas only one thing is going to happen, which goes up because the rates get higher. You guys are having a hard time accessing the property. You say this in the explanatory statement of your amendment to the whole: Access to housing ownership must be discouraged and other forms of access to housing solutions facilitated. And the question, Mr. Mayor, is why you want to make it difficult for you to access the property. What problem do you have with the middle classes of our country having a property in which you have deposited most of your savings? What's behind that? Because after hindering access to property, you say: don't worry, there is a social fund, a public housing fund for all who can't buy a property. You can't buy the property because you raise the fee but offer them a home in the public park. Who's offering the house, Mr. Mayoral? The competent authority. Who will be able to access the rental of that public park? Who determines the competent authority. Which area of the city can be accessed? To be determined by the competent authority. At what quality of housing? To be determined by the competent authority. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what is behind your amendment as a whole, so we have to reject it. I do not qualify his model, there are very clear examples; I will not qualify him, but simply between his model and the one we propose I stand with which he defends freedom to choose where to live and how to live. [[The lady]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u41	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u42	We shall now proceed to the debate on the whole of the draft organizational law on the protection of personal data. The Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u43	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this draft organic law on data protection we are talking about something important, we are talking about a fundamental right recognized by our Constitution, because this law is intended to regulate how best to protect all citizens, in any corner of Spain, live where they live. And we also talk about Europe, we talk about that common, intelligent and solidarity project built on the strongest basis of a democracy, the rule of law. Surely taking into account these three keys - Constitution, equal rights and Europe - we can understand the reluctance that some people have in relation to this organic bill. However, in my opinion, in the opinion of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group - and I hope that it is also the opinion of the majority of the political groups - those are precisely - our Constitution, equal rights and Europe - the most powerful reasons that make this initiative not only necessary, but essential, and I will try to explain why in this intervention. Firstly, because the nature of data protection is strengthened as a fundamental right, a fundamental right which is thus set out in the Charter of Rights of the European Union, in the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, in our own Constitution - in Article 18.4 - and in the whole doctrine of our Constitutional Court. Secondly, because this organic bill will help to vertebrate more Europe in the area of protection of rights. The strength of the European Union lies in my view in its ability to establish a uniform, common regulatory framework shared by all Member States. This is precisely what the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, which we incorporate into our right through this draft organic law, seeks to achieve. On the one hand, we will overcome fragmentation in the application of European legislation, and on the other hand, we will also adapt the regulatory rules to the constant technological developments in this area. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about legal certainty; legal certainty, which is what this new text provides, since the adaptation of the Community regulation will prevent what would happen if there were no such adaptation, if each operator had to determine for itself what national rules are being displaced by the new Community regulation. I believe that all that is to facilitate the path of legal certainty and certainty is very convenient in every order. The amendment to the whole that has been tabled simply says no, not to all this, but also says no to many advantages incorporated in the draft organic law; advantages for all, ladies and gentlemen, advantages for citizens, for their rights and for their protection; advantages for control bodies and for businesses; and ultimately advantages for all citizens in a field, such as data protection, where there is so much lack of clarity, precision and constant updating in a sector that is closely linked to innovation and new technologies. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, when an alternative text is not even presented in order to be able to contrast and evaluate alternatives in its case, I find no logical or legal or political reason to advise us to give up the advantages; advantages which, for the purposes of my intervention and very systematically, are at least those I will mention. Firstly, with regard to the consent regime for the processing of the data of the deceased, and such processing of data which the heirs of the deceased may make, may request access to the data of the deceased, may be addressed to banking or other operating entities for the purpose of, where appropriate, erasure or access to such information. Secondly, the liability regime is also very important. Inaccuracy of the data obtained directly by a data subject may not be attributable to the data controller, provided that he has taken all reasonable measures. Thirdly, and also very relevant, the figure of tacit consent is excluded. Therefore, upon the future entry into force of this law, consent must always come from an express declaration or from a clear statement by the person concerned. Let us look at the bill, and it is also important, at thirteen years as the age from which a minor can give his consent, and it is not a whimsical or accidental element, but we are assimilating our system to the rest of the countries in our environment. Imagine a minor who can open a Facebook account in a summer stay in Ireland and who then, when he returns to Spain, finds that this consent is not valid or is not regulated in our country. This aspect of the public information process has been expressly endorsed and recognized by the entities dedicated to promoting the safe and healthy use of new technologies in childhood and adolescence. The draft Organic Law also provides for the rights of access, rectification, deletion, opposition, limitation of treatment and the right to portability, all in order to make it consistent with the new regulation of the European Regulation. With regard to such a unique aspect as credit information systems, the so-called colloquially late file system, its regime is complemented by an additional provision which also establishes a minimum amount for the inclusion of data in this type of file, which also strengthens security in this respect. The draft law regulates the field of video surveillance, clarifying the use of these images that can be obtained by employers, for example, in the event that the chambers capture the commission of unlawful acts by workers or that information obtained by a natural person at his own home is also excluded from the scope of this rule. The bill also addresses a unique issue, such as advertising exclusion systems, known as the Robinson lists, in which people who want to stay out of advertising action by companies are incorporated. Also as a novelty, internal complaints are regulated in the private sector and data processing is collected in cases where employees, even anonymously, denounce the illicit occurrences in companies, which was implemented from the Conthe Code, the unified corporate governance code. [[Rumors]] The figure of the data protection officer also appears, ladies and gentlemen, with a relevant importance within the regulation...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u44	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u45	Thank you, President. The status of the data protection officer is regulated in an open and flexible manner, because it may be mandatory or voluntary, integrated or not within the organization of the data protection officer or may also be a natural or legal person. In any event, the designation of the data protection officer shall be communicated to the competent authority, which shall maintain a public and up-to-date relationship of these data protection officers, and this information shall be accessible to any person. The bill also encourages the establishment of self-regulatory systems, including dispute resolution mechanisms and the development of certification systems. Finally, among the developments in the draft organic law, it regulates the regime of the Spanish Data Protection Agency and reflects, on the one hand, the existence of the autonomous data protection authorities and the necessary cooperation between these authorities. I would like to point out that a very intensive pre-legislative procedure has been carried out, which I believe has produced a very well-worked text at technical and institutional level. The first draft of this draft was prepared by the General Commission for Codification, through an ad hoc presentation created for this subject, within the section of public law. This presentation held meetings with the director of the Basque Data Protection Agency and the director of the Catalan Authority on 6 February and 10 March 2017. I also think it is important to highlight the reports that have been received from various ministerial departments, the Fiscal Council, the General Council of the Judiciary and the data protection authorities. Seventy reports have been received, ladies and gentlemen, from civil society in the process of public information. As the Spanish Data Protection Agency told them, it made an extraordinary detailed and extensive report, as well as the Basque Data Protection Agency and the Catalan Data Protection Authority, and many of their observations have been incorporated. We have worked closely with the European Commission, through the Commissioner for Justice, Consumer Affairs and Gender Equality, who has also made a number of comments on the text sent to them for their consideration. Finally, with regard to the opinion of the Council of State, the Council of State has expressed a favourable opinion on the whole of the preliminary draft and - I quote literally - says the Council of State: The new legislation will represent a positive step in the regulatory treatment of the subject to which it has been confronted. The result is a text of good invoicing and high technical level. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to make a brief reference to a matter which seems to me to be important, such as the coexistence within our State of different data protection authorities, one at national level and the other at autonomous level. This model is perfectly compatible with our Constitution, of course, and is consistent with the constitutional doctrine laid down by the court in Judgment 290/2000, so that our Constitutional Court tells us that the constitutional requirement for the protection of the fundamental rights of Spaniards throughout the national territory requires a balance in the distribution of competence between the State and the autonomous communities. I really believe that this project is perfectly respectful of this constitutional model and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court: it scrupulously respects the competences of the autonomous communities, those which have these powers in their autonomous statutes. Secondly, because representation in the European Data Protection Committee is attributed to the Spanish agency, because it is the common representative of the data protection authorities in that European Data Protection Committee, but it also provides for the possibility for the autonomous agencies or authorities to participate in some form or in the setting of the position that the Spanish agency presents to the committee. Also in the various working groups, for example, let us imagine a subcommittee on data protection in the Committee of the Regions, it is envisaged that autonomous representation can be carried out through these channels. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that collaboration, participation and strict respect for the competences of the autonomous communities are well-armed, well-structured in the bill. I shall end by doing as I said at first a defence of this initiative, which seems to me to be essential, essential for our legal system; indispensable for the improvement of the protection of a fundamental right; and crucial in order to continue to make Spain and Europe a shared area of freedom, security and justice. We have a good text, I am convinced of it; I am also convinced that the parliamentary procedure can be improved, and surely there will be good reasons for tabling amendments and for working together. What I can't understand, ladies and gentlemen, is why some people want to see no light, not start their parliamentary treatment and above all without any legal arguments or alternative proposals. That is why I logically call for the rejection of this proposal for the non-processing of the law, and that is what I ask of all the groups present in the House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u46	Thank you very much. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose representatives will speak in defence of the amendment, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u47	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for the tone, Minister. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety because, in our view, neither of the two requirements that you defend in this bill is met. First of all, you have spoken of the Constitution, you have said that you are respectful of the Constitution; possibly, but not of the block of constitutionality. In our view, there is a great deal to be done to ensure that the supervisory authorities of the Autonomous Communities can continue to play their role as they have done so far in the field of their activities. You say: this amendment to the whole is a no to the whole. No, Minister, and you understand it perfectly, it is a: so no. With this bad guarantee for autonomous competences we cannot proceed to process the articulated, we are not against the law and you know it perfectly, even if here it says what politically suits you. We are against the beginning of a law that does not provide sufficient guarantees so that we can rest assured that the supervisory authorities in the Spanish State will be able to continue to exercise their powers. [[The lady]] The law is not a guarantee with the autonomous communities because you say so, but you would have to put it in addition, and that is what we are demanding, that it be a law that we do not have to start with two hundred amendments in order to be able to guarantee what is already guaranteed by the block of constitutionality, by the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which in its Article 156 says that the area of exclusive action in the field of data protection is Catalonia, in this case of competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia. We want you to put it further, Minister, because Spain is not characterized by having been a scrupulously compliant country with European regulations, in fact it leads the ranking of countries penalised for failing to comply with European regulations. Therefore with these limbs you will understand that we want the guarantees necessary for this to remain a reality. Therefore, as we understand that this text that is necessary does not comply with these premises, we amend it to the whole, because this is the field of play that we want to delimit perfectly. In other words, its bill is 155 sectoral, in this case in data protection. The regulation, Minister, states that the supervisory authorities are an essential element of the data protection of natural persons, therefore a very important element, a fundamental right, you have said. He also pointed out that States should have the possibility of establishing more than one supervisory authority - and stressed - in order to reflect their constitutional structure. The bill does not provide for this. Thirdly, the regulation calls for the provision by law of mechanisms to ensure the effective participation of the various State control authorities in international organizations, which is not clear in the draft law. The Regulation clearly states that each supervisory authority must have competence in the territory of its Member State to exercise the powers and functions conferred upon it in accordance with it, as stated in point 117 of the Regulation. In our view, as the data protection bill submitted to you said, it does not meet these objectives, and it clearly violates the European regulation in this respect as regards the competition framework. It shields the Spanish Data Protection Agency as the only supervisory and interlocutory authority at European level. We are therefore at the mercy of your grace whether or not you allow the competent authorities in the rest of the Spanish territory to be interlocator. The single window principle enshrined in the regulation cannot imply that the only question is that of the EDPS, but also that of the various supervisory authorities with powers, such as the Catalan Data Protection Authority in Catalonia. The draft law violates the regulation by assigning to the EDPS only the function not only of supervision, but also of exercising the functions that the regulation reserves for the competent supervisory authorities. Minister, we have no guarantee that the agencies will be able to further develop supervisory and control powers within their remit. [[Rumors]] We continue to think that the draft law violates the regulation when it only attributes to the EDPS participation in the various forums and working groups in the relevant international organizations, as well as collaboration with other entities and agencies, especially in Ibero-America; an extreme that has been developed with some assistance by the other Spanish control agencies, as is the case with the Catalan Data Protection Authority. You have said that there have been numerous reports and also from the Catalan Data Protection Authority. Of course it is, because it is the duty and duty of this to contribute to the good governance of this law, but loyalty is paid with disloyalty to our understanding, Minister. Their competences are not reserved, and therefore we see that it is a norm with a jacobline tendency. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u48	Ladies Ciuro, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u49	That is why we are presenting this amendment as a whole, not because we do not agree. If you hold that we do not agree with the law you are missing the truth and you know it. It is a question of competition and I would like to hear from the Minister that the necessary reforms will be addressed so that these constitutional and competitive guarantees will be shielded. That is why there is no alternative text. It does not seem logical or sensible or reasonable to us that a law which seeks to provide legal certainty should start with competition. It does not seem sensible or reasonable to us for a good law that we have to amend in order to have those powers that are recognized in the bloc of constitutionality. We hoped for loyalty, just as they have always received it when trying to make contributions to this law and to the various laws and legislative processes that have been processed in this House. As I have a little time left, I want to say to you, coming off the subject, that such a day as today in 1564 Galileo Galilei was born. Eppur moves, he said; yet moves. It is a phrase that is attributed to you, as you know, after abjuring your theory that the sun was the center of the universe before the court of the Holy Inquisition. This was a symbol of the superiority of reason before fundamentalism. I want to say that we still have four political prisoners in prison, and even though they have to abjure what moves them, our will to continue to build an independent state in Catalonia remains firm. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro i Buldo. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u51	Thank you very much, President. I will intervene from the seat because I will do so very briefly. A full amendment to the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data is presented to us for discussion on the basis of two conclusions which are based on their regressive nature and on the limitation to the exercise of the powers of the autonomous data protection authorities. However, these assertions are based on an argument with so much economy of means and reasons that prevent us from supporting such a reproach as an amendment to the whole, without prejudice to the fact that some of the issues which are so summarily outlined - and which we have also identified - cannot be remedied by the appropriate partial amendments. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u53	Bon dia, minister, lords and lords deputies, for Republican Left the right to the protection of personal data is fundamental. It is a right that entails not only the power to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the intimate sphere of the person, but it goes much further and is based on the power to have personal data itself, recognizing the right to require consent for the use and collection of personal data, the right to be informed, the right to access, rectify and cancel personal data, and to object to their use. The Minister, Mr Catalá, has already explained this very well. Now Esquerra Republicana is obviously going to support this amendment in its entirety presented by the PDECAT. The Government has prepared a draft organic law on the protection of personal data without taking into account the order of distribution of competences established not only in the Constitution, but also in the statutes of autonomy and ignoring the scope of action of the Catalan Data Protection Authority. If the Spanish Government depended on data protection in Catalonia, it would depend exclusively on the Spanish Data Protection Agency. In this you are never a surprise, in this you are incorrigible. They take advantage of the need to adapt Spanish legislation to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data and the free movement of such data - a regulation which will come into force shortly to centralise competences in the Spanish Data Protection Agency - in order to go far beyond what would be strictly necessary in accordance with the European Regulation. [[Rumors]] They even ignore the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself - Mrs Ciuro referred to earlier - to which both of you venerate in other respects, and which so often confront us and ourselves. [[Rumors]] Numerous rulings of the Constitutional Court have recognized that the existence of a European regulation should not modify or modify the order of distribution of powers...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u54	Mrs. Capella, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I really...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u55	Still running out of time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u56	Don't worry, I'll stop you right now. Ladies and gentlemen, are you really aware that absolutely nothing is heard?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u57	May I, President?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u58	You've got time to stop, Mrs. Capella, don't worry. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u59	The rulings of the Constitutional Court, to which you so venerate, express that there is a so-called block of constitutionality, especially in the Constitution itself and in the statutes of autonomy. It is therefore clear that the State is extrapolated in the exercise of its powers by adapting the legislation to the Community regulation without taking into account in this case the Catalan Data Protection Authority. Article 156 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia confers on the Generalitat of Catalonia executive competence in the field of the protection of personal data, which, while respecting the guarantees of fundamental rights in this field, includes, in any case, an exclusive sphere of action in relation to all the Catalan administrations. In addition, article 31 of the Statute expressly states that all persons have the right to the protection of personal data contained in the files which are the competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya and the right to access them, to examine them and to obtain their correction. It also adds that an independent authority designated by the Parliament of Catalonia, not by the Congress of Deputies, must ensure respect for these rights in the terms laid down by the laws; even before the adoption of the Statute of 2006, which clarified and expanded its scope of action under the name of the Catalan Agency of Protection of Dades, already in 2002 the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia ensured the guarantee of the right to data protection in the field of public administrations of Catalonia through the advice, dissemination of law and the performance of control functions. But, as I said, you are always incorrigible in this respect and use as an excuse the European regulation to centralise and to this end appoint the Spanish Data Protection Agency as the common representative of the data protection authorities in the European Data Protection Committee and the other data protection groups established under European Union law. This is not just in this respect, but in many other areas where the Spanish State always does the same, although the regulation does not prevent the Catalan Data Protection Authority from being able to participate directly in other working groups that may be set up in the field of data protection. We believe that the obligations of the Spanish Data Protection Agency should also be regulated as a representative to the European Committee and that genuine cooperation mechanisms should be put in place to enable the Catalan Authority to carry out its task effectively. The Spanish Agency should be obliged to keep the Catalan Authority and other autonomous authorities informed of the agenda of that body, the planned initiatives, the matters discussed in that body and the resolutions, reports, opinions or other positions adopted. [[The Lord]] It should also facilitate the participation of the other authorities of the Spanish State in the determination of the position to be taken as a common representative within that body. Ladies and gentlemen, what you cannot do is act as if the Spanish Data Protection Agency is the only authority of the Spanish State and ignore the important role that authorities such as the Catalan Data Protection Authority have come or are developing. That is why I was saying that you are incorrigible and that when you are not watched you end up doing the same thing all the time, refocusing and preventing those who have competence from exercising and exercising them. In this respect, therefore, we will support the entire amendment tabled in this case by the PDECAT. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PDECAT has tabled a full amendment to the draft organic data protection law, which consists of two pages from which we have to deduce - because it does not say so, but does not present an alternative text - that what is requested is the return of the project to the government. Therefore, PDECAT joins the Government's lack of responsibility and unpredictability in introducing this bill so late. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Data Protection Regulation entered into force on 25 May 2016 and the deadline for its adaptation to the internal rules of the Member States of the Union will expire on 25 May 2016, when the Regulation will be directly applicable; we are not here. To present an amendment to the whole of short and sticky for the generic and recurring reason of limitation or invasion of competences seems to us to be an enormous irresponsibility because if the project were to be returned to the Government it would be increased that window of great legal uncertainty that will take place between 25 May and the moment when we finally approve this law; present amendments to the article as we will all groups of the House will do. By the way, the chapter devoted to the autonomous authorities, which they are so interested in, has only six articles in total and does not seem to entail a huge workload. In addition, the first of these articles, which covers the functions of the autonomous authorities, not only respects their territorial and subject-matter powers, but also covers their competence over those data processing specifically provided for in the respective autonomous statutes. I do not think of a greater degree of respect for autonomous competences than this general clause. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, that there are autonomous control authorities, which have perfect place in both the regulation and our law, cannot conflict with the European regulation which, in its Article 51, states that when there are several control authorities in a Member State of the Union, a principal authority will be appointed which will represent everyone before the European Committee, and this cannot be other than the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which must also be responsible for the consistent application of the regulation throughout the national territory and the competent authority in cross-border processing. All this leads me to wonder what interest it underlies, what interest you have in delaying the processing of this organic law. It doesn't take much effort to see it. What I believe is that what really bothers you is that the European regulation sets out obligations for cooperation between the supervisory authorities; establishes obligations for the exchange of information; establishes obligations for mutual assistance and cooperation in joint operations; obligations that are reciprocal between the different supervisory authorities. But, of course, you do not want the Catalan authority to have these obligations with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data, so you will not have to explain or inform, for example, in what procedures are the twenty complaints that the Spanish agency sent to Catalan for the illegal processing of the data of millions of Catalans in the census used for the illegal consultation of the 1-O; I say this to you: you will be in some drawer waiting for your prescription. [[Applauds]] It is not in my mind to doubt the independence of the Catalan authority, despite the fact that its director was Secretary-General of Governance and Institutional Relations of the Generalitat or, previously, passed through the departments of Presidency, Commerce, Tourism or Consumption, nor because she advocated in the Parliament that municipal censuses should be used to hold the previous referendum on 9 November, not even because she escaped to China the week of 1-O, when she received the notice of the Constitutional Court warning her of her duty to prevent any activity aimed at the holding of the illegal consultation. It is curious, the director was in China while the data of millions of Catalans were on a Caribbean island because Mr. Puigdemont had given them to the co-founder of The Pirate Bay, the pirate bay. [[Shows photocopies of articles from several newspapers]] [[Applauds]] I have no doubt about the independence of the Catalan authority or despite its acronym APDCAT, which seems to be covert advertising. Allow me the joke, I know you changed the name a posteriori to appear as a clean party of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I do not know how it has not occurred to you in your party such an arguably in order to get rid of all the backpacks of corruption. Just change your name. No, ladies and gentlemen, what really makes me doubt the independence of the current Catalan Data Protection Authority is that it is questioned by the judges, it is questioned for not having denounced and for allowing another agency of the Generalitat, the Csicat will function as an independent CNI, creating private databases of entrepreneurs and individuals obtained with follow-up and intercepting communications illegally. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, what really should be amended in its entirety is its commitment to the fundamental right to data protection for the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would beg silence. We're at the end of the morning and I hope we can complete it with order. Thank you very much. Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that it is always surprising that a spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group comes up to this rostrum, when he is supposed to be supporting the Government, to face him with a delay in bringing a bill to the House. It is at least curious, although it is also at least curious to complain about a lack of speed in the processing of a bill by a parliamentary group which is absolutely necessary, together with the People's Parliamentary Group, when it comes to slowing down the legislative functioning of the House on the basis of calling for successive extensions to each bill that we have admitted to procedure. From the People's Parliamentary Group it is to be hoped - you are conservative and tend to preserve the previously realized legal order, which was also long and stretched out during the X Legislature thanks to your absolute majority - but from the Citizens' Group, which is supposed to be reformist, to seek reforms, and which are systematically asking to extend the deadlines of all the legislative proposals that we have for this House to legislate, it is always at least surprising. We would do well to finish asking for extensions and to get ourselves into legislation. In 2018 we have done nothing. I was accounting the other day for what we had legislated in the General Courts during 2017: twelve laws, of which three are those of the Basque quota, and an organic law. And during 2016 I believe that the absolute record is being beaten in the legislative history of Spain - not democracy anymore - since we only saw two laws, the two organic ones, and no ordinary law. In any case, the issue we are dealing with here today is the amendment to the whole package that the Joint Group, the PDECAT, has put forward. The truth is that my group does not see it justified; on no account do we see an attack so flagrant that it leads to the need for an amendment as a whole. Even at the beginning of the text of the amendment they have put forward they say that there is a clash with Article 156 of the Statute, because it establishes exclusive jurisdiction. Article 156 of the Statute of Catalonia does not state that it is exclusive, but that it is an executive competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia in this matter. The truth is that it is not a perfect bill, it is not the bill that my parliamentary group would like. We are going to table amendments and we believe that there is a need for appearances. This has already been agreed by the Bureau of the Committee on Justice, and some more will be requested. As I say, it is necessary to make amendments and to enter into certain issues which are also raising many meetings with certain groups, for example in the area of health data, an issue to which the Government committed itself in the preliminary draft and which has subsequently disappeared from it. I am talking about the commitment to make specific legislation on health data and that we will have to review from my parliamentary group. What I can say to the Catalan Members is that my group is going to work to ensure that all the amendments that tend to respect the division of competence between the State and the autonomous communities go ahead; our commitment to this is total. However, we do not understand this amendment to the whole of which only the Members of the Democratic Party of Catalonia have tabled. Other groups with a long history of competing defence in their respective territories have not even presented it and, moreover, in judging its amendment they have not seen it with very good eyes and have announced their abstention; I say this by the Basque Nationalist Group. With regard to the other main argument, that of international representation in the processing of data, ladies and gentlemen, the first competence that any State reserves for the central authority is that of international representation. However, trying to coordinate that international representation is made in accordance with respect for the competences assigned to two autonomous communities, seems to my parliamentary group to be an absolutely necessary issue, and we will work together to do so. As I say, it is a bill that is not perfect, a rather improved bill that has to go through a process of amendments - apart from the appearances that have already been agreed by the Bureau of the Committee on Justice - which my group will amend, as it cannot otherwise be, but we do not understand the need for this amendment in its entirety and will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. [[Rumors]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor. I ask again for silence at the beginning of the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u65	Thank you, President. I will start, Minister, if I may, by giving you a friendly advice: replace the person who writes the speeches because this is not the first time that the huge lump errors that sometimes contain have been re-verified today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group does not question the opportunity of this bill, but it does want to use this moment to denounce the Government's delay in submitting it. It has already been said: the European Data Protection Regulation was adopted in 2016, its Article 50 mandates States to provide specific legislation by 25 May of this year. The Government, more on vacation than in office in 2016, has wasted eighteen of the twenty-four months available to Spain. Irresponsibly, the Government is putting pressure on the General Courts to pass a law in just five months, we have three: a clear manifestation of the government's incompetence and contempt for the quality of the legislative function of this Parliament and a clear disregard for the significance of this law that would well merit a calm debate, consistent with its social impact. All this when Germany has already passed its law and other countries are well advanced in their legislative process. Spain will be late and late to comply with its European commitments, but this does not matter very much to the Government of the People's Party, as this and other data show: for example, its null intention to transpose the directive on the exchange of police data, whose deadline ends this June, which is not even between the government's normative forecasts for 2018, or the absence of a draft law on the control of airline passengers' data, whose deadline for transposition ends this April. [[The Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo, is absent from the Chamber]] I don't know if I'm suffocating the minister who has to be absent at this point. In any case, I add another example: the Government's nullity of reforming the Law on the Conservation of Electronic Communications Data, challenged by the Court of Luxembourg. The government cares very little about losing the established prestige for decades, leading in Europe the protection of privacy. This draft law is an acceptable starting point after the excesses of the preliminary draft had been cleared, excesses that suffered a severe correction from the European Commission and deserved a cluster of essential observations from the Council of State. But this group, in any case, sees itself under an obligation to denounce loud resignations that the Government has incurred. The Government has renounced the granting of greater protection to minors, has renounced the facilitation of scientific and medical research, has renounced the modernization of the Data Protection Agency, has renounced the prestige of the new figure of the Data Protection Commissioner. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, has approached this legislative initiative as a mere process, without ambition or height of sight, without assuming the significance of the technological transformations that engulf today's society; this Government lacks ambition, lacks ambition from a country. This project is a missed opportunity, a missed opportunity to face the challenges of digitization. In 1978 our constituent parents raised a flag: freedom and rights to what they called computer science. The constituents of 1978 already saw the enormous impact that technological advances would have on our society and on the enjoyment of our rights, and therefore Article 18.4 of our Constitution mandates the public authorities to limit the use of information technology to ensure the full exercise of citizens' rights. Sooner a desirable reform of the Constitution will have to include in its priorities the updating of the Constitution in the digital age, bringing a new generation of digital rights to constitutional rank. [[The Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo, re-enters the Chamber]] Welcome back, Minister. Meanwhile, the Government should lead the recognition of digital rights. Today, the Internet has become an omnipresent reality in our personal and collective lives. Much of our professional, economic and private activity takes place on the network. The Internet is of fundamental importance for human communication and the development of our life in society. Today we clearly identify risks and opportunities that the world of networks offers. Without just three decades of life, the Internet has transformed the life of contemporary societies into any dimension we want to evaluate. The Internet has operated a real mutation, for example, in the sense that we traditionally gave terms such as memory or forgetfulness or in the impact that the dissemination of personal information can have on human dignity. The limits intrinsic to offline reality - limited space, limited time - are removed by online reality, which summarizes its reach in two explosive notes: universality and eternity. The massive flow of personal information on the Internet forces not to trivialize the risks it generates in the individual and invites to reinforce the validity of individual rights with prophylactic responses. Ladies and gentlemen, our new rights are called upon to contain these risks and threats. The task of recognizing and guaranteeing citizens' digital rights and in accordance with the mandate set out in the Constitution is inescapable. But the People's Party government looks away and misses this opportunity. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, a sluggish and sluggish government is not in a position to address this and so many other challenges that our society demands. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Rallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in May 2017, The Economist magazine stated on its cover that data are the oil of the digital age. The data - the text said - have become a commodity around which is articulated a new global industry in the process of expansion. Data trafficking allows the dynamism of the economy, allows innovation, allows sharing ideas, exchange information, spread knowledge and collaborate. But also in this data economy there are major threats to rights, threats to privacy and threats to privacy. Only in the first half of 2017 have more personal data been filtered - specifically 19 billion personal data - than throughout 2016. That's right, the protection of rights, is the vocation of the new European legal framework for the protection of personal data, formed by the regulation of 27 April 2016, as the Minister of Justice has explained. The regulation is not international law, it is not a rule that requires its transposition into our legal order, it is the rule directly applicable in Spain from May 25, 2018. The fundamental principle of this new regulation is precisely the elimination of fragmentation, the guarantee of a uniform and high level of protection of the rights of individuals. Look at what the fourth recital of the regulation says: data processing must be designed to serve humanity. That is precisely what the draft organic law on the protection of personal data, which we are debating today for the first time in this House, seeks to achieve. In the face of the claim to homogenize the systems, in the face of the claim to reduce the normative dispersion and eliminate the regulatory atomization, which is absolutely incompatible with the digital society, we find a surprising amendment of the whole of the PDECAT that proposes to return the initiative to the Government because, according to its statement, reduced and confused, the project is clearly regressive and limits the exercise of the powers of the autonomous data protection authorities. Well, let me say with all due respect, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and the Republican Left, that in this debate the only thing that has a regressive character is his speech. When the European Union demands homogeneity, you demand particularism; when the European Union proposes coherence and homogeneity, you demand fragmentation. The arguments that they stand for in their total amendment are so poor, they are so scarce that they have not even managed to fill a sheet and a half of ideas to convince the Members of this House. In fact, I am very afraid that you have not been persuaded to judge by the speeches that have preceded me. This is a necessary organic bill, urgent, absolutely technical and in which, surprisingly, the Catalan Data Protection Authority has had a very active participation. He has intervened in the presentation made within the General Codification Commission, issued his mandatory report and, more importantly, many of his proposals have been incorporated into the text of the bill. Therefore, if data protection legislation seeks coherence and seeks cohesion, I fear that you have long become the champions of inconsistency and division. There is nothing in this bill that limits the competence of the autonomous authorities. Title VII, for example, has the heading: Data protection authorities, in plural, and devotes a chapter to the Spanish Data Protection Agency and another chapter to the autonomous data protection authorities. [[Rumors]] In that chapter, Article 57 defines the area of competence...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u68	Wait a minute, Mr. Martinez. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. This is the last item on the agenda and I think it is worth hearing the speaker silently. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u69	Thank you very much, President. He said that Article 57 is perfectly consistent with respect for the powers of the autonomous authorities but, above all, is consistent with the European regulation. In this regard, the only example that the text of its amendment to the whole introduces in order to seek the return of the project to the Government is that, he says, he assigns the representation of the Spanish Data Protection Agency exclusively within the European Data Protection Committee and therefore none of the powers of the autonomous authorities. Look at what is clearly stated in Rule 68.4 of the Rules of Procedure: Where in a Member State several supervisory authorities - as is the case - are responsible for monitoring the application of the provisions of this Regulation, a common representative shall be appointed in accordance with the law of the Member State. At no time does this rule exclude the powers of the autonomous authorities. The fact that the Spanish agency is the single mailbox is a requirement of the regulation, but it is perfectly compatible with the participation of the autonomous authorities in matters affecting them and is expressly stated in article 60, 61, 62.2, among many others. Nor are any other references to the over-restriction of the organic bill, for example, in relation to the figure of the Data Protection Officer and so many other issues that you have brought to the table in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence of the amendment made by the spokesman for the PDECAT to my parliamentary group makes it clear to you that you have no concern about the rights of citizens in the processing of their personal data but about the protection of plots of power that contradict European legislation, that contradict the logic of the times and that contradict even common sense. I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and the Republican Left of Catalonia, that you have put so much effort into protecting the rights of Catalan citizens against the abusive processing of their data by organizations in their orbit. [[Applauds]] I wish they had used the same tesón that they use today to request the return of the project to the Government, to demand respect for the legality in the processing of data used to draw up sinister censuses or blacklists. The reality is that you have shown that the protection of personal data does not matter to you. Nor do they care about citizens' rights in this area. In this House we debate rights; you debate power quotas. I was looking for an expression to define your political position in this debate and I found it in the text of your entire amendment, the expression is 'clearly regressive character.' That is the text of your amendment, and I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that is your ideology. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. At the end of the debate on the last item on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause]] MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, Motion for an urgent interpellation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to correct the wage gap between men and women. [[File number 173/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. The vote will begin. We begin with the vote on the motions as a result of an inquiry. We are voting first of all on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u72	Approved. [[Applauds]] - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the CITY Parliamentary Group on the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment for Water. [[File number 173/000076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u73	Motion for urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment in the field of water. We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 31 against, 224 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u74	Rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u75	We shall now proceed to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the draft law adopting urgent measures to alleviate the effects of drought on certain watersheds and amending the consolidated text of the Water Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July, from Royal Decree-Law 10/2017 of 9 June. We shall vote separately on the amendments. We begin, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on the amendments to the preamble, the second transitional provision and the third transitional provision. [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 329 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u76	Approved. Amendments to Article 1 as regards paragraph 3 thereof. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 215 against, 112 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u77	Approved. Rest of amendments to Article 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 140 against, 194 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u78	Rejected. Amendments to Article 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 143 against, 71 abstentions, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u79	Approved. Amendments to Article 3, as regards paragraph 1, Article 6 and the fourth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 237 against, 8 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u80	Approved. Amendments to article 5, with regard to the deletion of its last paragraph. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 175 against, 70 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u81	Approved. Rest of amendments to Article 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 245; abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u82	Approved. Amendments to Article 7 as regards paragraph 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u83	Approved. Remaining amendments to Article 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 249 against, 71 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u84	Approved. Amendments to article 9, with regard to its third and fourth paragraphs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 167 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u85	Rejected. Remaining amendments to Article 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 246 against, 81 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u86	Approved. Amendments to article 11 and the first additional provision. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 248 against, 85 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u87	Approved. Amendments to the first transitional provision and to the eighth additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 327 against, 7 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u88	Approved. Amendments to the fourth additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 168 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u89	Rejected. Amendments to the sixth additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 136 against, 32 abstentions, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u90	Approved. Amendments to the seventh additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 133 against, 170 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u91	Rejected. Amendments to the second final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 215 against 31 abstentions 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u92	Approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 165 against, 80 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u93	Approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u94	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. We voted, first of all, on the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania on security cooperation, made 'ad referendum' in Madrid on 26 May 2015. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 261 against, 69 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u95	Approved. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN ON THE SPORADIC VACATION AND WORK PROGRAMME, DONE IN TOKIO ON 5 APRIL 2017. [[File number 110/000056]] - COOPERATION AGREEMENT ON ASSOCIATION AND DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE ONE PARTY, AND THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN, ON THE OTHER PARTY, DONE IN MUNICH ON 18 FEBRUARY 2017. [[File number 110/000057]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND TO AVOID THE DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF THE TAX EVALUATION ON THE INCOME AND THE PROTOCOL OF TAXES, DONE IN HELSINKI ON 15 DECEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000058]] - PROTOCOL ON THE ACCESSION OF THE TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, AND COLOMBIA AND PERU, FOR ANOTHER, TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE ACCESSION OF THE ECUADOR, I DID IN BRUSSELS ON NOVEMBER 11, 2016. [[File number 110/000059]] - ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, ON THE ONE PART, AND THE STATES OF THE SADC EPA, ON THE OTHER PART, DONE IN KASANE ON 10 JUNE 2016. [[ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT]] [[COMMUNITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF MERIDIONAL AFRICA]] [[File number 110/000060]] - AGREEMENT ON THE TRANSLATION OF PERSONS CONDENED BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA, DONE IN MADRID ON 30 MAY 2017. [[File number 110/000061]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAJSTAN ON THE MUTUAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, On 15 July 2017. [[File number 110/000062]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PARGUAY ON AIR TRANSPORT, I DID 'AD REFERENDUM' IN MADRID ON 9 JUNE 2015. [[File number 110/000063]] - AGREEMENT ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, DONE IN MADRID ON 9 DECEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/000064]] - CONVENTION ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNITED Mexican STATES, DONE IN MADRID ON 20 APRIL 2017. [[File number 110/000065]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA ON RECIPROCAL SUPPRISE OF VISATES FOR DIPLOMATIC PASSENGERS, DONE IN GEORGETOWN ON 14 JULY 2017. [[File number 110/000066]] - SECURITY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ON THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION EXCHANGE WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF DEFENCE COOPERATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 4 OCTOBER 2017. [[File number 110/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u96	Rest of the agreements. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 329 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u97	Approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u98	Let us now vote on the debates on all legislative initiatives. First, the vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law regulating real estate credit contracts, presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; in favour, 79; against, 180; abstentions, 81 plus 1 telematic vote, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u99	Rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u100	A vote has been requested by the plenary of the House on the deliberation and final vote of this bill. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 340 votes in favour, 168 votes in favour, 169 votes against, 165 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u101	You're a lawyer. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We shall now proceed to vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft organic law on the protection of personal data submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; in favour, 16; against, 317 plus 1 telematic vote, 318; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-15-CD180215.u103	Rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 20 minutes from noon.
