ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the occupation and socio-occupational conditions of self-employment]] [[300-00293/12]] And we do so with the new item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the occupation and the socio-occupational conditions of the autonomous work; question presented to the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. To expose it has the word the deputy José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.2.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, today I would like to ask you about a collective which is going on, as you well know, a very difficult situation, where what is at stake is its own survival and which, despite this, remains an invisible collective for you, Mr Councillor. I'm talking about the self-employed. And it's that all that rhetoric that you use for other topics, it muzzles in the case of the self-employed. And what he's doing is, in short, taking advantage of one of the weaknesses of the self-employed, and it's that they're people who don't complain, people used to looking for life, in an environment that never makes it easy for them; a collective that doesn't see their Government as a support and, therefore, never trusts or expects anything from it. They are people who take a transcendental step in their lives, who play practically everything, their heritage, present and future. And they do it to build their own job. Some do so because of their entrepreneurial vocation, to take advantage of their talent and knowledge, and others, the vast majority, do so out of necessity. They become self-sufficient by losing their jobs and, by not finding another alternative, in the face of a precarious labour market, with unemployment rates much higher than the rest of Europe, with a high temporality, which cruelly penalises young people and those over the age of forty-five. However, despite your great precariousness, they are invisible to you, Mr. Counsellor. And this interpellation goes to all of them. It goes from the more than half a million Catalans and Catalans who are in the autonomous regime. It goes from one to ten Catalan workers. And my goal is no other than to try to get you to visualize them, to worry about them, and to take care of them. And to make things easier for you, I will propose solutions through the motion that we will table, as my partner Laura Vílchez already did in 2016_even though you have not put them in place. Look, counselor, self-employed people sail between two worlds, and many times, they have the worst of each of them. They belong to the world of work, more than 80_per_cent of them do not have employees in charge – it is a form of self-employment – and they also belong to the world of business; they themselves are the legal form of their business and have the same problems as any commercial society, but, yes, starting from a much weaker position. But, despite belonging to the two worlds, in the end they do not take care of them either from the consulting firm of Treball or from the consulting firm of Empresa. And they leave unassisted those who, within our corporate fabric, are the weakest link and the most support the Administration needs. Because they only count on their work to get to the end of the month. And because, without help, they are not in a position to think and deal with the great challenges of our economy, such as innovation or the digitisation of their business or trade. And it's that most, you know, start every month of zero, sparing yourself and devoting your time to getting your product sold or commercializing your service, dedicating the hours it takes. You can ask, Mr Homrani, any self-employed person your schedule. It's almost impossible for me to answer him accurately, basically because they don't have a schedule. And the vast majority don't know what it's like to disconnect. Business always goes with them, takes them home at night, accompanies them on vacation, if they can afford it. And it produces insomnia and anxiety. And there is no business sector more human than that of the self-employed, Mr. Counsellor. That's their reality and their way of life. A way of life that they often feel proud of, because it is a great challenge for them. And it also has obvious compensations. One of them, no doubt, is when the business allows you to hire workers and see that your business, that business is the fruit of your effort, grows and from it you can live, too, other families. That is precisely the talent that we must strengthen from the institutions. Because the reality is that 95_per_cent of companies are self-employed and SMEs with fewer than ten workers. And we can, of course, work to build a better future, but that future will always have to go by saving the present. And both the present and the future of the Catalan economy goes by supporting our autonomous. And up to this point, Mr. Counsellor, I have given you a basic description of what a self-employed worker is, without suffering the effects of a pandemic. But now we are facing the coronavirus, with mobility restrictions, without tourists, which are one of the main sources of income, with restrictions on social encounters. And you have to be very aware that, without the support of the Administration, without the help of the Administration, all those efforts, all that talent, all those jobs that generate, all that self-employment will be destroyed in a few months. In the face of this pandemic, being a self-employed worker does not only mean living in despair, it means being a step away from poverty. And many of them, unfortunately, are already in poverty because they have been forced to close the blind of their business, which was their only source of income. The self-employed need to be dedicated to managing this health crisis that we are living, they need it to be able to work. They, as I told them, are not used to asking for anything. They're used to living off their work. But to do that, they have to be able to open the blind with all the guarantees. Do not waste time, Mr Councillor, on these issues and devote all your efforts to managing this health and economic crisis which is obviously hitting us. At the moment, the only useful strategy is to help them to endure all this time. Because keep in mind that they are being responsible, they are respecting the restrictions, they are complying with the protocols; that many of them, such as those related to culture, nightlife or temporary activities such as the holidaymakers, who have already lost all season, cannot even open their business and lack support. Things can be done. Other autonomous communities such as Madrid already go through the third rescue plan for SMEs and the autonomous, the last of 213_million_de_euros. And here, even though we have proposed from Citizens since the first minute, they have not even drawn up the first rescue plan. The municipalities, the municipalities are showing greater concern and making much more efforts than the Government of the Generalitat. They have to address this emergency that they are suffering from, putting in place direct aid plans, because, in the face of an exceptional situation, exceptional measures are essential, so that they can simply survive. And I assure you that, right now, it is the best social and economic policy we can do. These months, the self-employed only see mountains of receipts and payments each end of the month, while they do not bill or bill very little. They can't take any longer with average billing drops of more than 60_per_cent. And they have no savings to put up with this situation. Because they enter less than half, but they have the same expenses. And as in any family, that's absolutely unsustainable. And that is why, Mr Councillor, I think it is our duty as politicians to preserve all that activity so that it continues to function after the health crisis. Otherwise, social chaos will be impossible to manage. Because when an autonomous falls, it's very difficult for him to get back up. Only 20_per_cent will try again. We don't have a system that facilitates the second chance. And now, in addition, those who are at risk are the autonomous ones that were already consolidated before the health crisis, businesses more than five years old, which is the time that is considered reasonable to strengthen a business project. Those autonomouss are now at the door of closing, if they have not had to do so already. And don't be fooled, part of the weakness with which they face this situation is motivated by the lack of active policies to support the autonomous work of the various governments of the Generalitat. They have never made things easier for them since the government. They have problems with lateness and we not only talk about billing, we talk about late billing. A self-employed person will hardly have the cash to deal with an overcrowded portfolio of uncollected customers. That is why the public administration should be an example. And when I talk about the Administration, I'm not just talking about the Generalitat, I'm talking about all the associated entities, because many of them aren't paying on time. That's intolerable. The Administration and its entities cannot be the late ones. It cannot be the Generalitat that owes the municipalities, or it cannot be the public entities that owe the suppliers. They also have funding problems. You mark the guidelines of l'Institut Català de Financi, but ask any autonomous your relationship with the ICF. In 99_per_cent of the cases you will have no idea what you are talking about. Because it's not a useful tool for the self-employed. It is unable to facilitate the treasury. And self-reliant people need microfinance, although they often have their own homes provided as a guarantee. And having liquidity is the thin red line between holding or closing. They also have problems with the bureaucracy, the paperwork sinks them. They find an occupation service in Catalonia, the SOC, which has never been concerned about its employability. And he didn't worry, despite his heavy budget. And it is not a modern or active intermediary, useful, between supply and demand for employment. Another important issue, training. It is another area for which the autonomous are invisible. They need to form themselves and a continuing training, adapted to their needs. And also to its characteristics. They have never supported you either from a fiscal point of view and you depend on the IRPF's autonomous section, but they cannot apply any kind of deduction. Deductions that, on the other hand, have all kinds of chiringuites that you do not end up controlling, while the self-employed do not have any deductions in the IRPF in their autonomous section. What I want, Mr. Counsellor, with this inquiry, is for you to reflect. It is time to support those who have played it all. And I'd love to hear your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.4.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members; Member, you wanted to ask a question about one of the areas linked to the world of work, a world of work that is patent and very, very, very harshly and very hard the health crisis linked to the pandemic of the Covid-19; a world of work that was already weakened from the crisis of 2008, is to say, a world of work that was already weakened, that was already coming with many shortcomings, where the policies that were made to emerge from the crisis of 2018 are to weaken it even more, and they have generated more bias and more temporality and also, unfortunately, lower wages, lower than occupation. And that, if you add the situation of the Covid-19, what it does is that the situation is still more complex. Immediate challenges that need to be done: it is important to prevent ERTOs from becoming EROs. It is necessary to fight because it does not strengthen the precariousness experienced in later years. And I need to get the product back. And when we talk about recovering the fabric of production, we are especially referring to the small business and to the self-employed workers and workers in the country, who, with the crisis, have seen their project perish. You have made a small elegy to self-employment, a small ode to self-employment and have placed some of the difficulties. I think it's also very important that we take into account figures and profiles, in our own work, because it also helps us, between a work that is very, very diverse and heterogeneous. And it helps us see the impact of the Covid-19 crisis on the brand of autonomous work. With the data already compared in the first quarters of 2019 and 2020 – they know that they are closed, right now, they in the first quarter – you see – and only affected the share of March, in the health crisis of Covid – you see the reality. A reality that, what is being done is a decrease in self-employment, a decrease that, especially, affects all the projects that are less than a year old, that are the projects that are moving forward, that are not consolidated, and that are the ones that are painting the most. And we can already see, compared to filiation, in the RETA we are already at a lower 1.1; when it is pugin in the second quarter we will see a very complex reality. And then, if we go comparing membership on behalf of others to those who most intensely contract, the fall is higher. I think it's important to situate it. From here..., and with a profile that also responds to a reality of the very weakened labor market of the Spanish State, and in this case we share, in Catalonia. The average profile of the self-employed person is a man– 64_per_cent are men– between forty and fifty-four years– 50_per_cent of the self-employed workers are between forty and fifty-four years– who work in the service sector– a 78_per_cent– and a lot of localized– this was linked to the population in our country– to the demarcation of Barcelona: a 72_per_cent are from the demarcation of Barcelona. And as you said, 83 percent of them don't have people in their charge. From here, what's next to us? Anar giving answers, but also various answers before a reality that is very and very different. On the one hand, there are the lines that have been supported in very concrete areas, of trade, of tourism, that are the sectors most affected by the crisis of the Covid, and this has been realized in the field of its competitions the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. There is another element, which is also – and I also speak when I speak of autonomes and autonomes because, if not, we are not aware of reality – the struggle against false autonomes. Because we also need to be aware that this figure has been used to precaritize the world of work, in some cases that should not be autonomous. And this is also one of the tasks to be accomplished. Have this ability to arrange with the sector. I believe that in this sense one of the pending assignments that we had and that I found when I arrived at the center was the constitution of the Council of the Autonomous Work, which carried many years without capacity to form and not by lack of will of the various governments, only because there was a conflict around representativeness. We've been able to resolve this conflict and we've already got the Homework Council going, and that's also what I think is very important, because in the end we also need concert spaces to listen to the sector, to work with the sector, and after economic investment programs. In this sense, from the department, and since you found that I was very interested in knowing what we were doing, I put it there. The priority that we have had in the framework of autonomous work has, on the one hand, been the first line of specific help, because it was the sector that has suffered most; the help of 7_million_i_mig. And then what we want to reinforce, with a reversal of more than 25 million euros, key aspects around survival and also to continue taking advantage of the context of much uncertainty but that can also generate opportunities, because the economic model changes and this also means that you have to adapt to this economic model. So, that's why we've doubled the presupposition to help self-occupation for young people, because we think it's a time when all the digitization elements, the suitability of the proximity trade, can be an opportunity for many young people, and we've doubled it. We had a premise of 6_million euros and we have ended up allocating 12_million euros, and that's what allows us to give a confidence around the young person who starts an autonomous work project, because what we guarantee is that they are two_million euros for their stay during a minimum of twelve uninterrupted months at the top of the autonomous to the general rule, of the RET. That's what he wants to give a support to the most complex year for any autonomous, which is the first year to pull the project forward. It also consolidates: accompanying the consolidation and growth of economic activity. The 5_millions of the micro-enterprise area. We want to place a very specific element: what needs more support is the microenterprise, the one that has fewer than two workers and, in many cases, led by autonomists. And in this sense, we wanted to give it this import, to the 5.5_million support to autonomous people, peppers and social economy, directed, this adaptation, to digitalization, since all that supposes this adaptation to digitalization..., with two elements: being able to help that organizationally can add muscles. It's a lot easier, in the end, if you work with a grid, that this grid has a specific app and that then you do a formation to all its associations, which are autonomous, at the time of use..., that you don't pretend that each one of them has this element separately. It's all too hard in that sense, too. And that's what we've done in a year when we've had a $215-million spread in active employment policies. I think it's important to situate it. I think it's important to situate it because it shows what I think has been a lack of respect for the world of work. 2020, with the crisis situation Covid, what we cannot do is to detail what allows us to act directly on the labour market, which is the active policies. Passive policies are very important, performance is very important, but the tool that gives any government a proactive action on the labour market is active policies. I remember: 215_millions, 55_percent of workers' and workers' and entrepreneurs' contributions, because that goes from these contributions. In this framework we have found ourselves in this situation, and we have also strengthened the scope of the self-employed. And we will have to continue doing so, for various lives: to the most sectoral areas, by business, and in the most general areas, by the way of the Department of Work, at a very complex time for this detailed in active policies made by the government of the State, which has no sense. But we will continue to do so and we must continue to do so, and on an important basis. And on a basis on which this government is on better condition than any other government, which is already having the Council of Autonomous Work constituted, is to say, with concertation, with constant dialogue with the sector. I think it's a key element around these dynamics. And I did want to comment on a couple or three more things, but I see that time is up. At the turn of the day we will have occasion, and I am also interested in listening to who their proposals are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.6.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr Councillor, for your answer, but it seems to me that your approach, which you have given you today, has been as if nothing was happening, as if we were not facing a pandemic and you had all the time in the world to think about proposals for the future. And, moreover, blaming the Government of Spain at the last minute. I think it's not time to recover the productive tissue, we have to save the productive tissue. I think we're in a much worse situation right now. You say I made a little ode. I have tried to describe the real situation of the self-employed. And it is true, it is true that the autonomous are making an exceptional effort, but I believe that from the administration much more can be done and within what are the competences of the Generalitat itself. I've talked to him about a number of issues. I've classified you two phases. A first phase is the emergency phase, which is the first, which we are experiencing at this time, which is characterized by a fall in income, which the self-employed cannot sustain any longer while they have to bear the costs. And, therefore, what they need is direct support from the Generalitat. The only help there was the first of 7_million_and_half_of_euros, which did not reach four_ thousand autonomous of the more than half_million autonomous we have at this time. Therefore, that is insufficient and we must put it above the table. He also told me that policies were made from the Department of Enterprise and that those policies were made on a sector-by-sector basis. You have to make sure that belonging to a sector is not a condition either. For example, laundry. Laundromats were sectors that were declared of primary need. But a laundry that provides its services to a hotel or a couple of hotels has not had any activity and has had to close. Therefore, when it comes to granting aid, it is not only in the sectors – which is important, because tourism, hospitality, commerce are very damaged – but in the autonomous sector itself, in an individual vision of each of the autonomous. You made a description, obviously you have to work each autonomous according to your needs. I also transfer you the need that the season self-employed have. There are autonomous women who are discharged in April and make the season – for example, the trade fairs – and who could not have the support from the Government of Spain because they were not discharged when the pandemic was declared. We cannot abandon them because, as I said, they have not received any help. Also tell him that, within what I spoke to him, the subject of lateness is another of the elements that have to work. It can't be the Administration that's the late one. The fact of not being late, of paying in time, what it does is to inject liquidity into the market, to inject liquidity into the self-employed, which is what can save them. And that liquidity doesn't cost anything. You can do that from the management's point of view. And the second phase. I mean, you haven't even approached me at the emergency phase, but you haven't approached me at the second phase, which are policies, as I said, active to achieve that outcome in the medium and long term. I have raised several areas for you. I have raised the issue of FCI and financing: they have to facilitate access to credit for self-employed people if they need a lot of credit. I told you about tax policy. I've told you about the incentives through the IRPF. He spoke to him about training, a training which is also very related to dual vocational training, but also that self-employed people need special basic training. That is, it is not enough to know how to do the product well, it is not enough to know how to market it, but it is also necessary to manage its activity. Training mechanisms must then be put in place to adapt to the characteristics and needs of self-employed people. And I also told him about the SOC. I have told you that it is essential to reform the SOC. The SOC at the moment is not a valid intermediary between what would be the supply of employment and the demand for employment. The SOC, on the part of the self-employed and any worker, is considered a mere administrative procedure. That's what needs to be changed. The SOC has to be active. It has to be able to interact in the markets. It must be able to know that market and accompany the worker towards the search for that job. And those who are self-employed – as you say – who feel obliged to exercise this activity as self-employed, but who do not feel self-employed, have to be able to reorient their career and become self-employed, who are also self-employed. He was also talking to me about the fake autonomouss. Of course, we must put an end to the self-sufficient falsehoods. The self-employed are the first to complain about the poor practice of competition posed by false self-government and the submerged economy. But for that you have to empower the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate cannot be overwhelmed only with the files that come to it for lawsuits, but what it has to do is an active bet directly. And I'm telling you, the proposals will be presented to you through the motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to make his reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.8.0	I think in some respects we have talked about similar things, with you looking at a different little thing. And I think it's interesting that we discuss them. When I say sectoral scope it is to adapt to the specific realities in each context. There are very concrete questions. The other day I was talking to representatives of the transporters, and I was thinking that, depending on what your clientele was, you had had a moment of the strength of the confinement of the pandemic a lot of work or without work, feel the same sector. I mean, it's this acquaintance. And what we need is to strengthen these sectoral sights, more than anything else because it is what will also give effectiveness to the policies we are making from self-employed workers and self-employed workers. When we make the decision to launch, in the SOC framework, a call, that what they claim is to support the digitalisation process in the field of trade or in the field of small business for many small businesses and self-employed people, what we want to do is that this effort serves. So, we don't plant it from within the realm of a very small help – because we're talking about a half a million autonomous people – for an autonomous, but who is present is a guild, is the business association, because you have the ability to have the help of a certain size and that you can donate the tool that you support to all your associates. It's looking for this element. And linked, a formation of its associates surrounds the tool that can be developed. We work with this look and we think it's the most uncertain look – the most uncertain look – and that's what we've done from the SOC. With a very concrete and very clear answer, before a very concrete reality, that are the adaptations you have to make in a crisis_marc. And, if we have a learning in the crisis, it's that all that is digitization, from a small proximity trade to a professional who serves at the house of lampstore, etc., is a key element for the viability of his business project. We work on this line and it's what we have to work on. Now there are also some aspects that are key. I mean, the structural deficiencies surrounding the work with the autonomies are linked to a type of co-titization that is not reasonable, they are linked to you not co-titizing according to bills. And that too has to be said. And that's the difficulties. Then we can come up with new opportunities: strengthen these lines, and they are the ones we have reinforced. Why? Because I've explained to him: right now, the autonomes and autonomes that are most painted are the ones that carry a year of business project, which still do not reach the year of business project. With the first data we're analyzing, I'm talking about comparisons. He said, "Well, here we have to look. Because surely in many will have to rethink, so, this element of being able to pull forward projects that I support in the first year of developing the project, your autonomous work project, and all this also situated. What we cannot allow is, not the reorientation of workers who do not want to be autonomous, but the improper use of the figure of autonomous. And that happens, and a lot. And it's unfair competition. And they're companies that do it to pre-characterize the world of work. A little while ago we saw the performances we've done from the Labour Inspectorate to Amazon. Illegal cessation of workers and false autonomies. Because it's a reality that's a woman, and it can't be that, with the excuse that I'm a platform economy, I skip all the people's rights, and I jump into it, and you compete with a lot of companies that aren't modern placards, but that apply the right and do it the way it's done. And that's the way we keep working. And what we do have very clear is that all this has to be done in the framework of the Autonomous Work Council of Catalonia. You were among the first – and I say it here in your parliament – that they were "squeezing the government: "Constitute the Council. He's made himself up. It was not a question that the government did not want to constitute, it was a question that there was already a debate of representativeness between the sector. We accompanied, mediated and found the solution. So now we have to take advantage of it; the voices of its organizations are key at the time of designing policies. And from here on, Parliament is also the key. Talk to us. We're not thrilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the regularization of immigrants]] [[300-00296/12]] The next question is about the regularization of immigrants and is presented by the Republic Parliamentary Group. On his behalf, Mr Ruben Wagensberg spoke to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.10.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Counselor, I would not like to begin this inquiry without remembering or stating what happened yesterday to the island of Lesbos, specifically to the refugee camp of Mòria, which is, as most of you know, the largest refugee camp in Europe, where there were between twelve and thirty and a thousand, twenty and a thousand people, it was not yet known, because the camp is actually prepared because there are three and a thousand people living there. At these times, there were between twelve thousand and two thousand people. It wasn't the first time it was cremated, so what happened was it cremated the 80_per_cent of this camp. Last night, moreover, he rekindled 'his fire; he ended up cremating the totality of this camp. And now we find ourselves, in Lesbos Island, a situation of total emergence, with thousands of people who have lost the few things they had left, right? The tent, imagine, the little stuff they had, the few photographs of their family, the four things they had left have completely lost them, and it also gives a situation, obviously, a situation that is socially difficult at the junction of the island of Lesbos. Moreover, it is a situation that, from here, too, we have repeatedly called for the relocation of these people who are stagnant in these islands of Greece to be accelerated by the different governments of the European Union. And, therefore, he did not want to fail to mention it, because it is not a situation that only asks the people who live on that island or, in any case, the Greek people, but only asks the joint of the countries of the European Union. In this sense, today the Secretary of the State of Migration has made a pile of solidarity and offering his help or collaboration with the Greek authorities, some Greek authorities who believe that what they do not want is very helpful, but what they want is to follow with their plans to prevent new people from arriving, and that the people who arrive are as close and as close as possible. But in any case, we appreciate this solidarity of the Secretary of State for Migration, but this solidarity is also good that we contrast it, right? , with the concerts we find in the Spanish State, that are not withdrawn, or that if they are removed it is to raise walls even higher, higher walls, literally, that Trump has raised to the border between Mexico and the United States. We continue with the full CIES, we continue with the helpless or with the blockades, as we saw during the past course, of the rescue ships of the Spanish State operating in the Mediterranean and the returns heating up. Or a data that can perfectly illustrate where we are is that 14_percent of migrants transiting the world who have died during this 2020, in which we carry a year, have died trying to reach the Spanish State, the majority by the way of the Canaries. Therefore, it is a particularly hard jifra: 14_percent of migrants in transit dead all over the world have made it trying to enter the Spanish State. Therefore, the Spanish State has a lot of work to do in solidarity with what is happening in Greece, in order to try to pal·liare or avoid the maximum possible deaths. Another field of action that the Spanish State has in this sense are all people who are migrants or refugees who are already in Spanish territories, but who do not have their regular situation. Now we're talking about approximately 600,000 people in the Spanish State who don't have their regular administrative situation. And that's why during this pandemic, during this confinement, more than a thousand_100 entities across the Spanish state joined and launched a campaign, that surely everyone and everyone remembers their name, that it's # Regularization Already, that precisely, what it called regularization, the acceleration of these managed delays to regularize these people, and that there are no unsavable paperwork or paperwork that they have until now to obtain the work permit or residence permit. It is important to place at the centre that this is a question of human rights, that is of justice, that is the dignity of people. But it is that, in the band, this regularization also brings benefits to the receiving country from an economic point of view, from a social point of view, from a point of view, if you want, also cultural. Besides, now it's an emergency, it's an emergency that's given to us... an emergency, an emergency, we'd say, that's given to us through all this social and economic crisis that's starting out as a result of the pandemic, right? , as a result of the Covid-19 and what it will do is that a lot of people have a life..., or it takes them a little more at the end of the month or have more difficulty doing it than before the pandemic. And surely the collections that will suffer the most will be those collections that have already been and that, therefore, remain more vulnerable. And among these vulnerable collectivities, there is one thing that is that of people in an irregular situation, people popularly known without papers. So, this is where we're going to take it, isn't it? , a couple of strong ideas that same Pedro Sánchez, the president of the Spanish Government, let go of the table that we buy with all his letters of all his words, which is « so that no one stays behind. "For no one to be left behind, a phrase recurs that we have listened to at the length of these months, so we say that" so that no one will be left behind that is to guarantee equal opportunities and that, therefore, this happens because in this country everyone is willing to work, to develop, therefore, all its potential and to have guaranteed sanitation, to have guaranteed education and to be able to access any service or any help, as any other citizen who lives in Spanish territories. Another sentence, another claim of the Spanish Government, and much put in the mouth for Pedro Sánchez, is "this is what we are going to overcome together; it is not necessary to say that in order to "get over this together what it is to take into account all the citizens, and, therefore, if we leave aside 600,000 people, we are no longer going to get over this together, but we are going to get over a few, some who have a situation more privileged than others. Therefore, by taking these two sentences from the same president of the Spanish Government, we are buying them, so we ask you to make this regularization of migrants effective. That, moreover, would not be a new king, because the Zapatero government has regularized more than 700,000 people, the Aznar government has regularized more than 500,000 people; now there are 600,000 people to regularize, therefore, we do not believe that it was an extraordinary measure and that it should not have a great feeling against opposition groups, because the same Popular Party has already done so. And that's why during this confinement, before the summer, the Table of Citizenship and Immigration made a statement, approved a statement in which it asked or spoke basically of three points: the first point is to flexibility these conditions to get close, to be able to guarantee access to the right of residence, the work permit. And what he was asking for are very concrete measures that would not even need to change the whole Migration Act, that it is a foreign law that we defend that we can repeal it and remake it a new one with today's conditions, but in any case, it could only be done very quickly by changing some articles that would not have to pass through Congress. I mean, a council of ministers, any one of these, could approve in a matter of two minutes. Instead of asking for three years of relationship, the one that proposed this table is that one is asked; instead of a work contract of one year is asked you can access it with a job offer of just three_months. Therefore, what I was asking – I am making a quick summary – was the flexibility of these conditions. A second part that was asked was in the claus of cures: the workers of the cure, who normally, in their majority, are women, they are a very highly vulnerable boss, because very many of them work in our homes without any contract, not because they don't want to, just because they can't because they don't have the papers, a particularly vulnerable collection, therefore, work in this sense. And the third part, which we find especially difficult, by a judgment that came out of the Supreme Court, is that of young migrants alone, young migrants alone who, when they make their majority of years, have to come to work and find themselves in difficulty. The Supreme Court's ruling defines that these approval criteria are a little different from those approved until now from some autonomous communities, and with these new conditions that he has put on the table – I'm making them a spy – it's impossible for these people to take the step, almost young people of these migrants who have only today in our country could approve these criteria, because the criteria he asks – I'm asking for some examples – are: you can stand by the permit already in transit or in order or without holding it. In case the tinguis, it's up to the head of half a year to renew. And here you have two options: either to have a one-year job offer – we had what kind of young person from this country until all the young people who were born in this country have the opportunity to have a one-year job offer; I would say it's a minority – or to have a non-profit residence renewal, that is, you have to have tickets so that they can't come from work, obviously, because you don't have permission, or public. That's to say, if you can't earn your money working and can't come from public help, you come from a family that can give you... – what you're asking is an IPREM per month, that's five hundred euros – that they can send you five hundred euros per month... So these young people don't think we have them in this country because if they come, precisely, it's to look for life, or it's thought for young people who come from other countries, I don't know, and at the end of two years four IPREMs, that's to say, that's two thousand euros. For children who don't have papers that they don't have, they're a regular day to get it, and they're also asking for a one-year job offer. No young man of age has this offer of work on the table. Therefore, we are talking about approximately seven thousand young wards who from this feeling will remain, therefore, in a legal void, and that this will be a problem mainly for them, but obviously also for the cohesion of the country's joint. This, therefore, in the actual days; if we have not done the calculations poorly, from September 22nd we will begin to suffer these massive denials, which will end or continue from March 21st, which is when the extension of the norm days ends, after the alarm state widened for the subject. Therefore, in a few days we will begin to see massive denials and what we want to ask you, counselor, is what you plan to do in this sense, if you have an open line of dialogue with the Spanish Government to resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.12.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Member Wagensberg, I also want to start the answer to the question I think sending a message that I am sure the whole House is sharing. The images we've seen of Mòria..., the performance, in many cases, because now we don't know, must be investigating, but I think we're all aware that they're already carrying out ultra-right actions in the refugee camps of the Greek islands. It is an image that we must condemn, that we must change, rather than condemn, we must change. I think we are all aware that we are letting the ultrathreat, that fascism, that racism earns a share of the debate, and I think that we need to say this with complete peace, but very, very concerned. And I don't think we have enough courage for certain areas to ever allow ultra-rights, racism and xenophobia to have growing space, and Europe is passing, and Spain is passing, and Catalonia is passing, and I think we should be very concerned. That in a refugee camp where there are thirty thousand refugees right now, thought for three thousand, you've had a hard time in the last few days, and with this fire that looks all over you, we'll see with the investigation, it's normal for this situation, a very, very harsh situation. I wanted to start with this idea. And then we put the most concrete thing, but we also have to place it in this mark that we are winning a part of the ultra-rights report to the Spanish State, and there are situations that we will find ourselves and that we will continue to find ourselves. Mr. Wagensberg placed some key aspects of what was managed by the pandemic around the rights of citizens and the most invisible collection, which are those who do not have papers, who are those who are already directly because of their administrative situation do not have rights, who are those who are in the submerged economy, who are a reserve army, and who do not have papers are invisible. And for the first time we have had an economic crisis where the submerged economy has also stood, something that we do not want like society, that we do not want like the community, that we do not want like the country, but that ends up feeling like this, unfortunately, many times of people in the most vulnerable situation, and this has made very harsh situations at the social level of vulnerability. I don't think we've taken advantage of the moment. We can discuss whether it could be more or less brave, but there have been more courageous actions. That someone would have gone further than Italy or Portugal, and someone else would have gone further, but something could have been done, and nothing had been done in this area, and I think we have to say, with very powerful campaigns of regularization there has been..., but after Mr. Wagensberg was also, you say, "Hey, there's a question that the change in the Foreign Law.... Certainly, the foreign law that last week from the European Union mark said it does not meet the basic criteria of human rights directives. And I think the motivation to rethink it... even more. We go fair and with complex majorities to the Congress, maybe the Foreign Law... but you had the way, and Mr. Wagensberg explained it clearly, by changing the rules. And with the modification of the rules you can make life easier for many people. From the time that the relationship is not three years old, it is much smaller, to a key issue, which is that the job offer of a full-time year is an entelèquia, and does not say utopia because it should be normal, say entelèquia right now. Well, that..., it could act, it didn't happen – it didn't. And now there is one aspect to it – which Mr Wagensberg has placed at the end of his intervention and which we are very much concerned about – and which we are talking about with the Government of the State since then, which in principle we share our gaze on, but which is – from here it will be September 21st, and if nothing has happened, we will have a drama – the interpretation made by the Supreme Court of how to renew the papers the young people who have migrated alone, underage, when they are to renew the papers. And the interpretation is very clear, that the Supreme has done, and what he does is: a system that was already complicated now the impossible, and all the work of inclusion, of labor insertion, in many complex cases, of these guys and girls, we would throw it for the claveguer. Why? Because the interpretation is very clear: a year's job offer, if not, does not renew, and if you don't renew you will have to wait three years to be able to show a lot of excitement – dinou, tient, tient-i-i-i-i-i will find yourself in this situation – and if you don't have to renew it showing that you have tickets, that they can't be either work or public service tickets. The interpretation says that, even though you have a post-custodial help, in the mark that the post-custodials have help whatever their origins are – I say this because after we feed the ultrathreat with certainly things – even though you have this help that you represent more than the IPREM, which represents more than the IPREM, they do not allow you to renew and place you in vulnerability. That's in the first one. In the second, you already have to demonstrate four times the IPREM, two thousand euros of inputs. Do you have any sense? Did you hear that the boys and girls we've joined, by legal obligation, but above all by ethical obligation, then, with divour, dinu, twenties, twenty-one years is left in the irregularity, an irregularity survived? Do you have any sense? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have made a concrete proposal, we have spoken to the ministry, we seem to agree, but from now on eleven, twelve days, that will happen. There's a complete agreement. You talk to organisations of migrants, citizens' rights, you talk to children's organisations, you talk to economic and social agents, you see. Talk to the municipal authorities. You see it all, but from here to God, eleven days, that's what's going to happen. And in Catalonia that means six thousand, seven thousand boys and girls who can stay in administrative irregularity. And that means more tension and more difficulty to many people, barrels of this city. Because then this will use ultrathreat, because ultrathreat takes advantage of inequality to trigger discrimination. I know how to do it perfectly, take advantage of inequalities to reduce discrimination. And we'll see it in the barrels of this country, where there'll be calls, where we'll continue to stigmatize guys and girls that we've got directly from any right, because we make a system that makes it impossible for the same administration that has the legal obligation but above all ethical, moral to collect them, then leaves them in irregularity. And I don't think we can afford it. And I appreciate the opportunity of this inquiry, because it asks all the groups that are here– we have spoken to the municipalist entities, working on the mark of the Taula de Ciutadania, where all the representatives are– who are paying attention, in all their possibilities, to the Government of the State. We cannot be from here to God, eleven days with this interpretation on the part of the Supreme, who places so many boys and girls in this vulnerability and who will be gasoline because they continue to grow that ultra-right, that fascism, that racism that we do is that we see this from Mòria and normalize it. And I think it's a key issue. For this, I appreciate this opportunity to place it. Look, work. The Ciutadania Table is working on a joint positioning that will come out tomorrow or tomorrow past. We can't afford this, because then we'll all suffer from it, the guys and the girls, but we'll suffer from it as a community and as a society. We can't afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Government's presuppositional policy]] [[302-00228/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the Government's policy of supposition. Motion presented for the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, to expose it has the parable of the deputy José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.14.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, very good morning to everyone. In the past plenary, I raised an inquiry into the budgetary policy of this Government. It raised different aspects of budgetary management and, more specifically, the lack of budgetary management of this government. And it is that, when planning budgets, we will always start from the social and economic context in which we find ourselves and face a very complicated situation, an exceptional situation that also requires an exceptional budget, with an unprecedented health crisis, which they are not managing with due diligence, plunged into chaos, improvisation and, often, decoordination. This makes the effects on health and the economy worse. And it is that in Catalonia we have a great ballast, which makes everything worse: we have in charge of politicians who are more concerned and busy with other issues that have nothing to do with the needs of the citizenry. They talk about elections, internal battles, government changes, seeking identity perfection, constantly seeking confrontation, lack of transparency and inability to collaborate even with the rest of the parliamentary groups, as well as to expect them to do so with the rest of the Spanish administrations. All this at a time when what we need most is unity, coordination, and working together in solidarity to get out of it as soon as possible. In short, citizens need politicians who are up to speed, who know how to park their differences in order to reverse this terrible situation, and I have to tell you, gentlemen of the Government, that you are not up to speed. Therefore, in this motion we make proposals that would be common sense for any Government. The first thing they should do is to set budget priorities according to the current situation, based on the needs of a citizen, such as Catalan, who suffers. We told them as active and passive: the budgets they presented and approved with the complicity of the commons in April are not useful for fighting the pandemic. In addition, they were approved in the midst of a health crisis, but you prefer to maintain the privileges and prebendas that you have agreed with certain groups and that allow them, in short, to maintain and expand their pace of life at the cost of the process. The commons are also responsible for accounts that are not good for Catalonia. I have to tell you, the gentlemen of the commons, who, from my point of view, did not negotiate well, nor have they been able to influence the management of the budgets that this Government is making and have also given a blank cheque to the former Convergence. Today that speech, moreover, that we were sold about the urgency of approving budgets fades when we talk about next year's budgets. They have not moved a single finger to start preparing them, and they want to convince us that the 2020 budgets were more important than those of 2021, when we are plunged into uncertainty and a health, economic and social crisis. Look, anyway, what interests the group I represent, the Citizens, is the future, is to see how we get out of this. I would have liked to have had the opportunity to tell Mr Aragonès today – he has apologized – but I am convinced that my words will come to him. We present this motion with the will that they abandon their current drift and reorganize the 2020 accounts, and also prepare those of the year 2021, focusing the priorities on social protection and economic revival instead of continuing to feed the monster of the process. I also have to tell you that I have no hope, when I see that the first decision made by the brand-new company advisor is to give 2_million_and_middle_of_euros to Mr. Torra's activist friend, Mr. Canadell, to use them on his crusade against the rest of the Spaniards, putting the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona at the service of their particular interests. I assure you that from Citizens we will control up to the last euro of all that public money. Because at present what they continue to do, and I specify this in the motion, is to harm the coexistence and the Catalan economy, which is losing more and more weight within the Spanish economy, and not because of our economic fabric, it is because of its political decline, which generates instability, uncertainty and legal uncertainty, elements that they do is to expel investors and talent. They should face the raw reality and assume that expelling more than five thousand companies was one of the most serious warnings and that confirms the fall by the cliff that means the process. Now, in the midst of the pandemic, we cannot continue to fall down the cliff, we have to stop that fall, and that is why from Citizens we again demand that they be put in charge of this terrible economic and social crisis that we are suffering, because the drama of many Catalans does not deserve silence by response, as you do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the first word the deputy Lucas Ferro, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs and MPs... MP proposing, when I read your motions on presuppositional politics always plans the same thought for me, that presuppositional politics is something more than thinking the letter to King Mags, and I don't say it in the sense of thinking utopias that we could only think of a rule of policies that we consider important. And it's one thing that's a little bit more than that, and it's defining the economic direction that Catalonia has to have for the next year. I will read a headline: « The fortune of the twenty-three richest Spaniards increased by 16_per_cent during the state of alarm. And when I say that we have to set an economic course for the next year and lay the groundwork for the next years I refer precisely to this. The crises, even though in our personal impact and how we live them we think that they obviously have to trigger changes in our way of life, the fact is that what they do is accentuate the tendencies that we have already experienced in the past, and, therefore, increase in inequality, increase in the concentration of wealth, increase in territorial inequality, both in the Spanish State and in Catalonia. And this is the paradigm that we need to think of as the general assumptions of the state, because crises do not have the capacity to change trends, but the economic policy of governments does have it. And this is where you make your letter to the Magi: more social benefits, more social protection, more public policies of reactivation of economic activity, more public policies of protection of families. The problem is how it fits this with the next headline: « Upstairs marks its red line with Podemos : The rise in taxes is inexhaustible for us. And I believe that what is inexhaustible is trying to square a circle that is impossible, that is to demand more policies of social protection, that is to demand more policies of economic protection to peppers and businesses and more policies of economic protection to families and, at a time, not to have mechanisms of fiscal recovery. More state intervention but less state tax capacity. That's square a circle that's impossible. And it is impossible to make a bet for economic reactivation and for equality and at the same time to say that it is inconsumable that Spain assembles more to the countries of the European Union in fiscal pressure to the higher returns of the country than to countries outside our economic environment. Just as it is impossible to think of territorial equality and defend that Madrid is a tax haven in its own State. Or it is impossible to defend that states have to make welfare policies when they are incapable of iron anticyclical policies. In other words, it's easy to think that it's also possible to make fiscal policies that they do is to shield inequalities and accentuate them and that this can be replaced by promoting protection policies for families. And this is where we have our fundamental discrepancy with you, which are not in the text of the motion. In fact, we would vote that yes practically all points because we agree with the written text, but we disagree with how you see and how you think about recovery. You always say a phrase, which is – I refer to liberals – : « Money is always better in the citizens' buttocks. I think this crisis has shown a few things at least. Not all the money is better in the citizens' pocket, because there are public services that offer precisely a collective coverage to those citizens who punctually or structurally could not take it, such as public education or public sanitation. So I think there's money that's better for public servants, but there's other money that's better for citizens' pockets. For example, income policies; for example, regulation of loggers. When we talk about the citizens having to have money to get to the end of the month, we also talk about the citizens who pay a logger or, for example, as we face the need for labour reform to avoid a new wage devaluation and precisely ensure that the money comes to the citizens' butxaca. With you we have disagreements about how we think about recovery. You mentioned the assumptions of the year 2020. For us, they are no more unique than the 2021s, which obviously laid the foundations for recovery. But we did give him one thing: everything he didn't like about the assumptions of 2020, which was a major investment in sanitation, education, universities, a major pressure on the country's higher returns, are the basis for the necessary recovery by 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the words of Congresswoman Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.18.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsellor, Members, Members, first of all, I would like to begin by thanking the Member proposing the presentation of this motion in terms of assumptions arising from the current pandemic situation. We believe it is important to talk about the needs of this country's citizens. Talk about resources, too. They are resources that – as Congressman Ferro gave them – are finite and therefore require responsible speeches on the part of all pleas in this sense, and to speak, in short, of priorities. As far as the young man is concerned, I would like to say that there are a few points which we will vote for. Surely the first point is the most philosophical point, which marks the mark of the young man. You are talking about fixing social protection and economic recovery as a presuppositional priority. And in this sense I would like to say that we agree and obviously vote for it not only from the point of view of the speech, but also from the practical point of view. In fact, I'd like you to set an example. Last July an extension of the budget was approved in 1,230_million euros, which will be allocated in a majority way to the areas of health, the residential area, the area of social protection and also to economic recovery. Therefore, it is not only a matter of making speeches, but also of putting it to practice. We have a very complex situation that affects not only Catalonia, but it frames itself in a global crisis and, obviously, the government has to prevent – as happened in previous crises – a very worrying increase in inequalities between people. And let me give you a moment to point number 3, where you have finally not accepted a message that we have presented to you, and where you ask – among other things – an emergence plan for Catalan families. In this sense, I would like to recall the Government's help through the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families a few days ago, an aid with an initial investment of 10_million euros that will entail an economic reinforcement of three hundred euros for 33,000 families. But there's not enough, we're conscious. Constantly in this faristol we hear about competitions and I would like to remind you that competence in labor matters is state competence. Who has the responsibility to give an answer to the families, who dilluns will start the schools, who will see how they will surely make quarantine, how they will surely stay home... We need legal certainty for these people, workers and workers who are forced to make quarantine. And this, sadly, cannot be done by the Government of the Generality. That's what the state government has to do. Therefore, a cry – since dilluns, therefore, many families will find themselves in this situation – to give response to these families. Because there is not enough with the plan Take care of me, which can sound very good at the level of marketing – it has an attractive name – but in the end it is still an adaptation of the working day or a reduction of the working day. And that means a reduction of self. What happens to single-maritime families? What happens to families who need until the last euro of their son in order to arrive at the end of the month? What happens to women, who are we who, in a very majority way, have to ask for shorter working hours in order to be able to reconcile? Therefore, since we are talking about competitions, in this case, therefore, a prec to the Government of the State to assume this responsibility. The government of the Generalitat can complement it, so it has to. I'm sure it's insufficient, I'm sure it should be more. But, in any case, each student must assume his or her skills. And already to end and in prec fashion, at point 6, you – already tell them that we will vote against it – refer to the economic decline of Catalonia, they say textually. No, look, Catalonia is not decaying. Catalonia suffers from the effects of the pandemic in the economic sphere in the same terms that the rest of the autonomous communities do, that the rest of the European countries do, in fact, that the rest of the world does. It would be wise to treat as sensitive an element as the economy of a country and not to forget in any case, for example, the impact it has on the Catalan economy, for example, the accumulated deficit of investments by the State that remained at the Catalan GDP 9.8 points in the period 2002-2017. Instead of making these claims that may be used to block some votes, they ask them to be responsible and as the main opposition party struggle here, but also to the State, for the interests of the Catalan economy and, ultimately, for the interests of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Lluís Guinó, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.20.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, let me put a question first that has to do with an inconsistency of principles that I see in the writing of the motion. You intend to make many changes, reprioritizations, changes in assumptions that you did not vote for, that you did not want to approve, and that on more than one occasion publicly stated that it was necessary and inefficient to work for the assumptions of the year 21 because from a temporary point of view to approve assumptions of the year 2020. Miri, it is contradictory to call it "unnecessary and ineffective to deal with assumptions and come three months later to tell us that we need to change them in a certain way, that we need to transform them, that we need to change them, and that we need to do more in its own way, that it is not exactly the way in which the parliamentary groups that we support the government surely want to bring it to an end. We are faced with an absolutely extraordinary, exceptional situation, and, therefore, the political actions that will last for the long term and that will apply also have this extraordinary and exceptional character, with two fundamental objectives: one, the salvation of people, the life of people, and the other gang also all that it has to do with the social protection of the most vulnerable areas and families and the economic recovery or the maintenance of the product fabric that has been particularly affected precisely by this socio-economic crisis. I want to say to you that this is only from a clearly cross-cutting perspective, that it affects all government departments, and that having assumptions has allowed precisely a very transcending and valuable issue, that it is that, in the measure that each of the departments has had presuppositions to face the pandemic, and that from a legal point of view, they have been able to claim and address all these changes, they have been able to take precisely those measures that you were demanding both at their time. That is to say, without 20's assumptions it was much more complicated and much more difficult, especially because of the state's attitude to the whole thing, and because somehow when there are plans to go economic finance in the administrations they know that there is a need for terms that at this time the exceptionality and the size of the crisis do not allow. Therefore, things have been done from this perspective, parties have been changed, parties have been reoriented, which the same presuppositional legislation can bring to an end. And they can end up in an internal area of a department and even in some of the areas where this department acts. It has been used that allows the presumption, also, that is the contingency fund. The contingency fund serves precisely for questions relating to urgency, necessity and transcendence and social affectation which have certain questions and, therefore, have been used practically 110_million euros of this contingency fund, destined basically for direct, indirect and even in some cases induced in the field of health, mainly. And it was because it was necessary that some from an economic point of view also take action. Since the Directorate-General for Industry, a number of calls have been made precisely for those enterprises, for those autonomous ones, which have difficulties, which have left at a certain point in billing and which need to keep the economic muscle to finance their enterprises and their activities. And these aids have practically reached a thousand Catalan entrepreneurs. Reference must also be made, and you have not highlighted it sufficiently, I think, precisely, that in the area of social protection for vulnerable families there have been calls in the Department of Work too, very concrete, because no one has left behind, because such a time the incompatibility between certain ugly benefits that there have been precisely families who have difficulty accessing it. And the benefits that the most vulnerable families needed were complemented by difficulties. There have been a dozen calls, very concrete, destined even as the summer passes, to questions that they have to do with reading, to questions that they have to do with childhood, with very many questions, that I think they need to be recognized and that they need to be analyzed concretely and very concisely. Precisely all the studies, all the information that you claim on many occasions, are from a monthly point of view and are made available to all those changes that have occurred in each of the presuppositional parties and that have impacted, precisely, on the most affected areas. I told him yesterday, precisely, that we had to make an effort – and I'm done – because this information that you claim is shared among all parliamentary groups. And point four precisely... and we don't understand why he won't accept us. We are absolutely in agreement that it is in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that these changes and reprioritizations should be analysed precisely. He didn't accept the message, and this time I do ask him to do it because, in fact, we're talking about the same, we want the same, and only for a strict question of parliamentarianism will he not accept it. And just a reference to a point that we will abstain from, but that we share, and that you have to see precisely not to look at also to which role the State plays in this situation, not only because at a certain time it has centralized the purchases in this situation, that we have not spoken many times before, but also because it is who manages more resources in questions like Covid, and up to what point this department has been doing and up to what point..., with which economic consequences are being done, with which rapidity, with which ease and efficiency of management. Of EUR 16,000 million, Catalonia would account for more or less of the 3,000 million mark. Until today, a game has been opened and a budget has been created for 1,200_million euros, but the Generality has to be able to manage and manage these resources that we are talking about. With the anecdote, it's not like that. It's not a personal anecdote, but I want to give it the importance for the stuffing it has. The Parliament of Catalonia made a donation of approximately 2_million euros, which also served precisely to manage and why the Health Department could...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.21.0	I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.22.0	...regrets the impact of these actions. To finish, just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.23.0	Ahabi, Congressman. He's out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.24.0	...I want to say that in a few places we will vote in favour of the motion and believe that it is very interesting precisely that these questions are being discussed in Parliament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.25.0	Next, to fix her position, the deputy Alicia Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Thank you, Congressman Guinó, right? , which says only EUR 1,200_million. No, "just no. In return, Catalonia, 3,200_million euros, of the Covid funds created by the State to lost funds and transferred to the autonomous communities. Catalonia is the second largest community. This year, 2020, the Generalitat de Catalunya will receive an 8_percent more of the autonomous financing system. The state could have said: "March has arrived the pandemic, they have lowered and they will lower the tickets, they are losing, the economy, important positions, and therefore, what we expected for 2020 we will not do. And, in turn, it has kept up the effort because autonomous communities have more resources. In fact, Catalonia is the one that increases the financing system the most with an 8_per_cent, which will be 1,600_million euros more for this 2020. That's say, 1,600_million euros more than the financing system, which is close to us, huh? , obviously – I don't say no – and to more than 3,200_million extraordinary euros that are coming for Covid. 1,200 have not arrived, now this September 400 for Education and will not arrive again in November and December. I mean, that's an important effort. The 148_million euros that arrive in the State and that Catalonia will not be able to profit, if it is able to present important strategic projects. Yesterday the Tremosa advisor told us that he sent them to the Economy; we would ask them to explain them to us, because in this Parliament they say that they can talk about everything but they don't talk about it and we don't know who these projects are so interesting. Well, I'll go into Ciutadans's office. I honestly think sometimes Ciutadans makes extemporaneous motions or a little weird, don't you think? Because, of course, you, in a normal legislature, this young man would have the whole sense of the world, which, as you are aware, presents a presuppositional modification, which we have also asked many times, which has been approved in this Parliament, but they do not care about us. In fact, the other day I was giving it to the vice president's team – I am telling you, Councillor Solé, since he is here in representation – that the vice president told us in July that he would call us parliamentary groups to agree on a presuppositional change, since the situation was so complex, right? And he even told us by saying and recognizing that he did not want an approval in Parliament, but that, taking into account the situation so complex, that he would call us and aim to agree on it. So, listen'm, this call not up never, from the vice president. He asks a lot of dialogue with President Sanchez, with the Government of the State. Certainly, a state government that does call, because President Sánchez called President Torra the other day. But Vice President Aragonès – yes, Mrs Artadi – never calls – never. At such a complex and difficult time, he does not call on parliamentary groups to agree on anything. Home, therefore, in accounts of demanding so much, they could also give a little example. And, therefore, he didn't call for this modification. I have no hope. I will vote for it all in favour, Mr Cano, but you can imagine that we have already approved many of the things that are planted here today. And they came the month of July to explain to us the expense of Covid with grandiose figures: « 800_million euros in... Listen'm, 800_million euros no. Don't mention the detail of which expenditure was saved during this pandemic, and also in education, and also in universities... There's no way. We're not getting out of it, 'cause this government's a little transparent, huh? And I've said it many times. There's not much information and they don't give it to us. Now, we'll vote all for it. But, still, I say to him, you look like you're out of reality. In a normal situation, it would be good if we asked for this, it would be good if we asked for the process of drafting a presupposition by 2021 to be initiated, but it cannot be obvious that it is possible for the President to be disqualified, among other things, because he has pleaded guilty, and therefore this clearly brings us to a functioning government, and a functioning government cannot approve a presupposition. And, therefore, there will be elections, we don't know if from here two, three, four, six, set. It's the same, we'll put out a few months without any presupposition with a pandemic situation and a government that's absolutely exhausted. Therefore, we can vote for all this, but, frankly, it sometimes gives the feeling that they have not just settled, because we cannot have some 2021 assumptions. I mean, in two years we haven't approved any assumptions at this time, I doubt we're doing it now that we have a government in such a precarious situation, right? So, well, we will vote for those points, but I repeat it, I think it doesn't... I mean, it does ask for elections. And, obviously, if there are no elections, with the least I can get us a presupposition. But, considering the situation we're going to be going to a few weeks from now, we can't even approve of that. Therefore, what is needed is a new government, a new government as soon as possible, to end this degradation of the current government. However, we will vote in favour of it, because we cannot be against the fact that we are given information, that they are doing the work that surrounds them, but I think we are not at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.28.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. This young man, as Mr. Ferro rightly said, is a young man in whom a great deal of resources is required for public policies, for peppers, for businesses, for self-employed people, for the most vulnerable, but there is no proposal to extrude these tickets, is there? And, without real wealth redistribution, we will hardly get out of this situation of economic and social crisis so deep that we find ourselves and that, moreover, it will become even more acute in the next few months and years. That said, on June 18, a motion was approved that presented the CUP in this Parliament in which the Government – the Republican Left voted it, it is not that you did not vote it – committed within one month to making a proposal to amend the Law of Presumptions with certain objectives. We were looking at the technical office for a check of compliments and, in relation to this point, point 1 of the motion, as announced by the vice president in the joint appearance, the one that they made to the Economic Commission between the Health Council and the Councillor for Economics and History, that the impact of the pandemic amounted to 4,972_million euros, including admissions and expenses. Until now they say that there have already been changes to credit for this purpose and that some are internal transfers and others are, as Mr. Guinó said, resources that extend from the contingency fund. But look, Mr. Guinó, it's not contradictory. It is not contradictory to call for a change in insufficient assumptions that do not take into account the situation of health emergencies in which we find ourselves. It's very consistent to make this petition. In fact, what is a lack of this chamber is that the government does and does not do without consulting with parliamentary groups in any case and, more importantly, betting on the rescue of the private sector and holding people responsible for this situation. We have seen how it continues to benefit from the processing of the Emergence Contract by making a negotiated and unadvertised contract, as it continues to favour IBEX 35 and as it continues – I finish, President – to hand over contracts to Railroad. Therefore, we would like you to consult this presuppositional change and talk about how you want to deal with this health emergency situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.30.0	Thank you, President, Counsellor. This is a young man – with all the love, huh? – pretty innocent and even pretty neutral. Basically because it reproduces all a sequence of obviouss. I do not understand it with a sense of pejorativeness, but there are questions that have already been spoken of, months that have been objected to by motions, resolutions and accords of this very Parliament. It is an obvious fact that from the same day that the assumptions were approved in April we all agreed that these 2020 assumptions were to be reformed and revised to adapt them to the economic crisis and the health crisis we were living in and were immersed in at that time. Therefore, from this point of view, we will not pose absolutely any objection. But even so, when you aim at the solution to try to reformulate the assumptions, you say: "Listen to me, you have to leave policies or non-priority spending to focus on those that are priorities. And even so you could say, "Listen, for us non-priority is this, this and this. And that's not what they do, and I understand that to try to get a certain consensus from the chamber and approve the motion. So, miri can't disagree with it either. It is obvious that..., and surely we will agree on which are the non-priority policies, but well, in any case, there is absolutely no motivation to oppose there. And that the priorities are more social policies and economic recovery, so it's another obvious thing that since the first day we're repeating and constantly repeating why this has to be this way. In relation to the assumptions for the year 2021, we agree that it would be desirable for this to be so, but we are skeptical, and we are skeptical for two reasons. A first motiu: we have a provisional government. In fact, it is provisional practically since the generation month of this year, when the same president said that the legislature was exhausted and, therefore, the government is provisional. And the next few weeks will certainly not only be temporary, but will also be in place and therefore will not be able to approve any assumptions. But there is another element: the assumptions also depend on the fact that the Government of the State, which seems to be also on a certain temporaryity, establishes what is the limit of the expenditure, and in this sense the Government of the State, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, seems to be hoping that the Republican Left can pass the electoral process to Catalonia to be able to give it the support, or the hope of the reunion of the Ciutadans Group to be able to approve these assumptions of the State. And finally, with regard to the plans for economic recovery and social protection, we also agree that they will be drawn up, but I am surprised that as much as the Government has already approved a plan for economic recovery and social protection in July, it is time for the Government to come to Parliament to explain to us what this plan was that it approved in July and that they actually agreed between the same Government, which, frankly, in view of the circumstances, has its merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has now the parula the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.32.0	Thank you, President. It is curious, because it gives for a good debate what the different parliamentary groups have contributed, but I only have two_minutes. First of all, thank both the group of the commons as well as Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana for the contributions they have made. With the Republican Group and with Junts per Catalunya we have not reached any agreement, because we understood that the philosophy of the motion changed, and with the commons we have expanded one of the points. I make four references. Mr. Ferro, I don't mean that I don't say that the rich have to pay, that they have to pay, but I don't like things that aren't true either. I mean, you say that the fortune of the sixteen richest Spaniards has risen during the pandemic. I've seen that report, and that's not it. That report does what it does is take the lowest point of the pandemic, in March, and compare it to a point in later time. Obviously, those fortunes do not have a larger volume compared to before the crisis. On the other hand, he talks about the tax hike. You see the rise in taxes... Obviously, for you any self-contained van and a logo will end up being a rich one, and in the end what you do is raise taxes to the middle class and working class. What they have never done is to propose any kind of reform, no kind of reform of the Administration. In the end, instead of reforming the Administration, they choose rather to parasitize it. On the other hand, Esquerra Republicana tells us of an enlargement of the budget of 1,230_million_de_euro, but what it does not tell us, here at this point does not tell us that they are the contribution Covid-19 of the Government of Spain, here the Government of Spain does not come out in its explanations. On economic decline, the reasons for this decline must obviously be pointed out. Catalonia has dropped in the ranking of the regions, and it has also dropped in comparison with other autonomous communities, and that must be denounced. And that is basically because of the management you are doing, not because of the management of businesses or the self-employed. Mrs. Romero. I find it curious, because he says that it is not up to now to talk about accounts, it is not up to now to talk about economic revival, it is not up to talk about social policies. Now it's time to talk about elections. I mean, what? Do we pay for all the machines, do we do nothing and wait to see if they disable Mr. Torra or do we continue to work? Citizen's bet is to keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be late, finishing the 14th point of the order of the day together with the rest of the votes. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into economic management]] [[302-00232/12]] Let's move on to the seventh point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on economic management, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. To expose the young lady has the word of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Well, in July, the Socialists and Forward Units group presented an inquiry to make a certain balance of these eight years of independent governments. Basically because it seemed like the legislature was running out, it was over. Now maybe it won't be that fast, but I think it's worth it to be able to do that. We believe that a decade or so has passed since the year 2010-2020 shows a decadent and little hope. And I want to give you some data, don't I? , because if you don't talk to them... – said Congresswoman Raquel Sans that she wasn't well enough. Well, then, the data says it's enough. Miri, yesterday the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services published tremendous data for Catalonia and, above all, for Catalans. He said that between 2009 and 2019 the social investment had been reduced by 4,062_million euros; the investment in health, 3,267; and in education, 780_million euros. Just now he's starting a Pandemic enmig school. God-in-the-boxes. We are the autonomous community of the entire state that has spread the most, in the whole list, in everything, we are the last. You're saying, they're spherical data. And this with governments where there were responsible for Convergence and Union, Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left. The saddest of all is this, but not only, but in the past six years where there has been an economic growth and a positive economic situation these governments have not taken advantage of to change this, to change this trend. They have not profited from making assumptions and increasing investment in Education, Health and Social Services. That's the saddest thing, when they couldn't have done it either. In a different way, they'll be able to retaliate. And if we're talking about economic recovery, things don't get any better either. In two years we have lowered the industry assumption from 165 to 51, in universities from 1,000 to almost 900 and we have remained the same in search. I mean, we haven't taken advantage of these six years to strengthen our economy. And so, then, we lose positions in the race for what it does to competitiveness. Now a few days ago one about the competitiveness of the European regions and Catalonia has lost positions. They're after them every year. We are heading 161 out of 268 European regions. We have lost, for some time now, the leadership for what it does to GDP in the Spanish State. We're no longer in the first position as we were. So, I think the balance is denied, I think the balance is not good for Catalonia, and so we have lost a decade, a decade that we want to recover, that we believe it can be recovered. What I said yesterday, crises generate opportunities. This European Foundation, Next Generation, presents us with opportunities, with these strategic plans that can, therefore, bring us genuinely interesting responses to this crisis. We believe that we need a new government, that I can lead, that I can dialogue, that I can agree, that I can represent all Catalans and that I can prioritize what is important. We had a exhausted government, divided – in the words of President Torra. And now we have a government a little more sectarian and a little more partisan and represents a little less Catalans. And that's what he did – I also have to say – with the permission of the Republican Left. A president who – he said before – may be disqualified, because he has already pleaded guilty. And that brings us to a very complicated situation among other things because he says that he wants a symbolic presidency and, therefore, that he will not complete the laws that are adopted in this very Parliament, in which it is established who are the causes of a president's inability, while the rest of Catalans do have to complete the laws. And, therefore, the President is continuing to degrade the institution of the Presidency, we are continuing to degrade the institutions: in this Parliament the motions are not complete, it is not complete that is approved not only by opposition groups, nor by government groups. In fact, yesterday we passed a law that generates legal uncertainty clearly, because the Board of State Guarantees has already said that it is unstatutory, unconstitutional. And, therefore, we continue with political instability, with legal uncertainty, that situation of the year 2017 that led us to many marxessin companies, including CaixaBank, the Foundation « la Caixa – that today vice president Aragones says they are coming back. Home, therefore, I don't think we have a much better picture at the political, legal and economic level because they return businesses. Perhaps if I had done the job of generating this political and economic and legal instability, then the situation would not be here. That's why we, Mr. Cano, are asking for elections now. We don't want to die if, seven more months, we don't want a government that will work and that won't be able to approve assumptions. It's what you're going to say, but the context is this. I don't like it, but it's what we have. And we can't pass assumptions in function, with a government in function. And when President Torra is disabled, we'll be on duty. And, therefore, we can't have a presupposition. And we don't want six more months, seven more months of this government's agony, of this Parliament's agony. We want elections now. And that in fifty-three days there are elections, we can have a new government, a new government that faces the difficult pandemic situation that we are living in, the economic and social crisis that carries this pandemic and, above all, that can hope for a country that carries masses of years with negative news, masses of years in decline. Therefore, elections and a new government as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.35.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. It has the word now to defend the papers presented, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.36.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President. Deputy Romero. MPs and MPs. Well, we're basically in agreement with this young man, but I would certainly like to comment on a few points that seem to me to generate more debate than the text itself points out. It is clear that there has been a loss of Catalonia's economic leadership both at European and state level. And that obviously means there are things that haven't been done right. I think it is only necessary to look at the incompliments that we have in the National Pact for the Knowledge Society, the incompliments that we have in the National Pact for Industry, in productive transformations of our production model, in energy transition, in waste and recycling policy, etc. Catalonia, which had pioneered many policies in the 80s and 90s, is today at which in most policies they are central to the transformations that we experience as a society in our own gods and twenty years. And it is clear that the government has had, especially this government, a lack of clear leadership in a situation of profound changes in our societies and that what is being done is to build Catalonia respect the rest of the autonomous communities and respect the rest of the European institutions. You're obvious. But it is also obvious that there are structural dynamics that influence this. That the leadership of Madrid is the leadership of someone who competes unfairly with the rest of the territories of the State, of someone who takes advantage of his position of state capital to become a tax haven in his own State. And that has consequences, not only in Catalonia, but in the rest of Spain, in the Castles, in Extremadura, in Andalusia, etc., in what we know as "Buried Spain". And I think this should also be on the table at the time of thinking about how we're going to deal with recovery. The second. It's obvious that this government is fractured, I don't think that... I don't discover hot water. And who gives no more of himself, but we do demand that governments. That's to say, we're on the verge of a pandemic and we're in a catastrophic economic situation and it's been a week since the government ended, for a partisan dispute, no longer between the two groups of government, but in the case of a group of government. I don't think that's normal or responsible. That, in the face of the situation that we are experiencing, for example, in the fabric of our country's production, the Councillor of Industry, for a party dispute, is neither normal nor responsible. And I think it's obvious. And I think some of the images that give the two government games, long ago, aren't normal. And I think the situation we're living in requires another type of responsibility. That does not happen to have internal processes at the organizations, the parties, or to rethink governments, but to do so on the basis of something else that does not follow the internal disputes between you. That is to say, I have understood that you have ceased any of the Government's advisors by discrepancy, because your line of intervention has proved to be unsuccessful in this circumstance, because you have made decisions that we believe are not positive, but for an internal dispute, in a party convention, immigrating from the situation that we are living, it is shameful force. And it's already dough, too long it lasts. I would say, in fact, that it lasts from the beginning of the legislature. And this pandemic requires a government that plans and does politics and that governments. And it's obvious that this government is massive, as long as it's closed at the time of governing this country. And we tell him that, when I became a legislature, that governments and governments agree with this Parliament, respecting the majority of this Parliament and talking with the majority of possible groups to see how we look at this inter-housing situation between this government calling for elections and there is a new government. Because there is one thing that is obvious: this government has to manage the pandemic, but this government is not the best government possible to manage the recovery of this country. Because this country needs structural reforms, I said earlier. The crises accentuate the dynamics that we are already experiencing in this country. And the question is, in this country, where were we creating inequalities? In an educational model that segregates; in an economic policy that accentuates inequalities; in a policy of privatization and outsourcing of public services that erodes the welfare of our home, etc. And it requires a government not only to take on the challenge you have not taken on, to govern and lead this country, but to take on the challenge of transforming it and making it clear in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix his position, has the word in the first place the deputy Martí Pachamé, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.38.0	President, Mr. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Mrs Romero introduced us today to a young woman who, in fact, did not surprise us. On the one hand he asks that this chamber see very obvious things and on the other we ask that we support his request to call elections with the highest celerity. Let's not go for a walk. To find that we have lost economic leadership is not so much seen in the GDP relation between autonomous communities, but in elements perhaps even more important, than is called the ‘soft power'. That the government is aware of the pressure that CaixaBank and Bankia want to merge is going to prove what the process really meant. The mantra they have been repeating since 2017 was to take on the importance of the decision-making centers of businesses fleeing from the amateurism and uncertainty generated by this government. Suddenly, they found themselves with what realpolitik means, irrelevance. What happened here was unthinkable that you went with an entity to finance the Basque Country or Galicia. That we have lost international competitiveness is another evidence. I just need to see the dramatic list of people who have taken the door and gone. This week we have clear examples. Other lesser known, but equally significant, are occurring day by day. Already in the sun is change of yours, now just who can 'nva. And this is the responsibility of the government that, even when it comes to an emergency situation of health and economics, it just thinks about screwing up the situation. Best policies have these consequences, consequences we pay them all. That the government is divided is not a finding, it is a fact. We will not tire of saying that this is a toxic government, that it generates a bad wheel for where it goes, that they just want to separate and crack, that it does not generate any positive synergy, and more now with the invention of the intelligent confrontation, as intelligent as it can prove with the government's purge. It's a government based on hate and resentment, it's a sentimental government. What do we have to say to ourselves that we are the main opposition party, about their lack of dialogue? They're more than monologues. They like them a lot more. So, besides, they're always right, and it's always the others' fault. With regard to the failure of the resolutions adopted in Parliament's plenary session, I refer to the previous point: who are we to tell them how to govern, please? They, with connection to Waterloo or the Council this Republic, have more than enough. We all know that, we've denounced it a lot of times, we haven't tired of repeating it. So we have no problem finding out. The reality is what it is. But they do not just want to see this reality and that it is concrete with all the structural deficiencies, that we all know that this government has not cared about education, universities, infrastructure or industry. We all know that the assumptions approved this year were a farce, a decoration to be able to make some early elections, which the health crisis has prevented. That these assumptions were already a deception without taking into account the striking effects of the economic crisis resulting from the health crisis. That the resources earmarked for education, universities, infrastructure or industry were clearly insufficient and that, in change, the funds earmarked for the councillors' games, such as TV3, the CTTI, the Diplomat or the fifth-columnist embassies, are overreached with public money, we all know that. What we didn't expect is for you to be allowed to carry for the electoral calculation, for your internal interests, and for us tomorrow to approve, now, with what you are doing, an electoral advance. Doing it now seems like a huge irresponsibility. During these months, people, our fellow citizens, have made brutal resignations for the purpose of bringing about and appeaseing the effects of the health crisis. There have been personal and professional resignations. We didn't go to see our family, our opinions. Many have not been to see the burials nor have we been there. Many have to lose their salvation, their work, or both. And we can't summon them now to some other election for very bad that this government is doing it. I can't imagine, now, between fifty-four days, with a more than likely pittance of the situation of the crisis of the Covid, making people look after when they can't gather more than two people. It would be a situation that would obviously favor forbearance; as we have already seen it was produced in the elections that were made in July to the Basque Country and Galicia. What serious choices, with so many people that I couldn't go to vote, for losing my salvation? They don't want to promote forbearance, do they? If you really have so many hopes that there are early elections, I don't know what the Madrid government is doing, it is to say, you, accepting to go now to the table of the dialog, where you already know that the priority themes will be self-determination and amnesty. You always do the same paper, not one thing or the other. For one song they want to make early elections, but for the other fan it is possible because it is produced the paripé of the Fake meeting. We have said so many times in the last few months: citizenship would not understand that it is called in early elections for a health crisis like the present. And it is – I repeat it – a complete irresponsibility. We have presented many initiatives in this room, precisely to do what you want to do now, and in some less complicated situations than we have right now. And you, in those moments, didn't pick us up, at the time we presented, for example, the motion of censure at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Natalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.40.0	Good morning, all of you. The motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC sets out some objectives and some obviations, some with which we agree. He talks about the loss of economic leadership, the loss of competitiveness in Catalonia. And they have returned to recovering glories like the runaway, but Mrs.Alícia Romero has not talked about the economic war that, for example, directly planted the head of the Spanish State against the Catalan independence process. We believe that yes, the country needs a renewal. If you ask us what we think about this government? Yeah, he's a failed government, because all the commitments he made when he took over, when he ran for office, they didn't make it. It is a government that has failed to give solutions to most of the veins and veins of this country and has not given an answer to the resolution of the conflict in the logic of self-determination of this country. But do you know what, Mrs. Alicia Romero? We are clear that we do not want elections called for the courts. You, the democratic terms often leave them on the second floor. And they are willing to demand an election, and if not, they will be called by a court that will repress the president of this country to exercise freedom of expression. And in this sense, we are very clear: in a country cut off by the poor, about 25_percent of the population is at risk of social exclusion, while the big businesses of the IBEX continue to have huge dividends; in a state where the corrupt monarch flees from his own hand, directly aided by you, by the PSOE; in a country where the poor have a woman's face; in a country where the work every day is more precarious and almost half-clause with people in a situation of administrative irregularity; in a country where the territory is torn every day; in a country where the public services are retaliated and outsourced every day more, yes, I can vote again, but not under the game and under the courts. And that's why we're abstaining from the request for immediate summons. Because we believe that the objects the PSC is looking for are very different from those we are looking for. And in this, there is also responsibility for the same group that presents this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the PP of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.42.0	Thank you very much. Just to convey our support to the young man, as far as we agree, I'm dealing with something, but I think the young man's language skills coincide with our speech a long time ago. That is to say, we have long since translated the loss of economic leadership in Catalonia from Spain. The objective data thus show, in the same way that this involves the loss of positions between the pool of European regions, which is also obvious. And that all this did not happen because, yes, it happened because we have a government that prioritizes its debates, even in times of pandemic and economic crisis; it was seen with the debate about the monarchy, where even so many were able to approve the resolutions, or publish the resolutions that were approved. It was a debate exclusively to brawl between the governing partners and it was demonstrated in the later parliamentary chronicle and in the creuad statements. And, besides, it is not only a government that does not prioritize the outcome of the crisis or the fight against the pandemic and that is deeply divided, but, moreover, shows an absolute lack of dialogue, which is another point of what the young man is doing. As well as the systemic failure of parliamentary resolutions in this house. Therefore, this is exhausted. In fact, it was already said by the government that this was exhausted. And as a result, we also share that elections should be called, that we should give a new impetus to government in Catalonia, and that we should apologize for this, when they just make a fuss, so they end up feeling that, just excuses. Excuses for a bad payer in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the return of Congresswoman Anna Caula of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.44.0	Good morning, everybody. Today we understand the meaning of PSC aims to do to us what we could say a Ciutadans motion. Let me put it this way: a lot of relationship, a lot of situation. It is also true that ironically, Congresswoman Romero, let me tell him that we may have missed the folder because it was the same. But very little substance. They come here and today I think they're presenting us with a little fraud of the law, trying to call elections by the young man, when they know that this is not the right mechanism. If you really see so clearly what you have set up and have the necessary strength, a motion of censure is the necessary one. Besides, they're being scrupulous about what you guys are talking about, 'cause they're having a little bit of a mix-up lately, aren't they? Yesterday they came out in this faristol, with the law of the loguers, saying: "No, no, because we do not have the skills, this is not the format, we are respectful, we always complete all the procedures. Today they come out here and say to us: "Oh, no, with a young man we have decided to ask for elections. No, if they're so strict, they know that by bringing this motion of censure, they'll see if they have the strength to be able to take it hard. We understand that it is also true the situation we have been going through, that the president has probably not made it easy for us to give a government to be cut prematurely a few months ago. An appearance that we could hear today as a minimum that was an unnecessary mistake, but the facts have passed us over to everyone. Tsunami. I'm working on the parenthesis. This time not classified by the prosecution as terrorism, as at least. I'm in parentheses. A global pandemic that has altered everything that affects our day-to-day lives. You have the needy of a country and all its priorities move forward. We have to face the major challenge that we have faced in this decade and, which is most vital, that we can mark the future time of the country, especially if we are able to stop, learn from the new situation and recognize that the care of people can be at the center of everything and that it strengthens us as a society. Double speeches another time, gentlemen of the PSC. « Unite – we feel Madrid, at all times, of Mr. Sánchez – « all in the face of this struggle that is attacking worldwide. But all of a sudden, when they come to Catalonia, they tear it all apart. Therefore, let me tell you that probably here in Catalonia there are neither there nor they are expected. It's ironic that the PSC is talking about divided government. Not a week ago, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs of Podemos was opposed to the oligopolistic merger between CaixaBank and Bankia sponsored by the Government of the State. Minister Montero came to Catalonia and said: "The low level of work has to reach all the families that I need to do quarantine without exception. Six months later, where are we? Where are we with the guaranteed minimum income? These are their responsibilities. Take them in. Then they'll have freedom to demand the others. And the most transcendent decision they have to make is to put the State in the service of the alleged commissionist Joan Carles de Borbó because he can escape from Swiss justice, who also had to make this decision to the banks of his associates. So, no, no. Refuge, refugee of what the Government of the State does, which gathers all autonomous presidents to inform them, not to consent, not to work, not to mark joint lines of action, but to inform them. And the fate is that the day before we press we don't know what the president will tell us. You're talking about Catalonia's loss of economic leadership in the Spanish state and you're saying it's the result of a lot of things. So today you have passed us perverse data with different balances. Again, given without a general context, because if we go to the general context perhaps, as the company of commons said, we would see that, despite the constant re-centralisation of the Spanish State – all in Madrid, as we see how an AVE is thinking, as we see how the Corridor of the Mediterranean is not developing – it brings us to an empty Spanish. The news is not so much that Madrid and Catalonia have a 19_per_cent mark on the GDP of the State, but that, despite the effect of capitality, despite the use of all the tools of the State – the FLA, the deficit limit, investments, financial regulation, the state of alarm – despite the bet for Madrid, they have tried forty years to reach the technical empire with Catalonia. Fem, gentlemen of the PSC, politics in another way. Tired of saying politics is like that. No, no, Politics can be very different. President Forcadell reminded us these days. This pandemic has put women in front of all those processes that mean people's care. We've seen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.45.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.46.0	... – Yes, President, I ended up – as is done with a different sensitivity. Trenquem, trenquem models de la vella política, esta cop de veritat, and we fight against the two rivals we have: repression and Covid-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]] In the last place, it is the turn of MP Elsa Artadi, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.48.0	Thank you, Vice-President Costa. Counsellor, Members, Members, we have here today a motion from Congresswoman Romero full of fake news, of unionist topics and, surprising in you, great doses of cynicism. Here you go to explain to us what is happening to the Catalan economy as if the PSC-PSOE has never held any responsibility in the Spanish government, neither now nor ever since I have memory. The trossed data, the data as well as the flight. The pes de Catalunya in the Spanish State has remained constant for the past forty years. That we could get better? We could go a lot better. And the problem that we're not getting better is their state of autonomy, a state of autonomy that threatens Catalonia's competitiveness, and that you're asking us: "The mark is the same for everyone. Do you really believe that Spain's spending distribution policy is the same for everyone? Is it really possible for you to defend in this hemisphere that does not discriminate Catalonia? Perhaps you don't want to believe it, maybe you don't want to recognize it, because, of course, with this whole set of assumptions that the PSOE has approved for all these years, these financing models that are dedicated to chronifying the fiscal policy that is suffering Catalonia, you have to shame them: the tax policy of 40_million euro diaries that go and don't return; 30_percent of our taxes that are dedicated to public spending outside Catalonia; a Mediterranean corridor that hasn't finished; an investor deficit at the airport, at the ports, at the roads, at Rodalies; an under-funded generality of its financing model. And the Socialist Party is responsible for this; the PP is also responsible, but so is his party. And today you see here quietly, with all cynicism, about us asking for forgiveness for this. You, who are at the end of the corporate order, and you also come to remind us of it as if you have not passed the king. You and everyone who defends this state of self-government put the economic progress in danger and put the welfare of our society in danger. We've said it many times, the fiscal deficit is a social deficit. We deserve a better welfare state. We're fighting for a better welfare state. But this is unattainable in the Spanish State. And now in the middle of the pandemic, in the middle of health care, economic and social is more important than ever. Or would we not want to have a teaching department with a 90_per_cent higher assumption or a 50_per_cent higher greeting or a 50_per_cent higher social policy, than would we have in the European media? Of course we would. And it's his politics, those of the Spanish State, those of the socialists who are preventing it. Tell us not to agree, the Government of the Generalitat. Miri, I remind you that while your president, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is taking pictures of Rioja to whitewash the king, obviously President Quim Torra signed an agreement with the Third Sector Entity Table, with the confederation to have an economic reactivity that I did not leave to anyone. Before that had already signed an agreement, the Government, with the Workers' Commissions, with the UGT, with Foment, with Pimec for the bases of economic revival; a committee of experts of the public health system had been established; the 2022 strategy for Catalonia, the Korean with assumptions, measures and timetables. And you're going to talk to us, too, which is thanks to me, of divided governments; listen to me, I, if you will, also put it before the miracle and the spectacle given to us by the government of Madrid, its Socialist Party and Podemos, common: there's not a week that a minister doesn't come out to explain a great initiative because he also comes out in the communication media a minister of the other color to fight and say exactly the opposite. Do you understand the confusion that this creates for the people at this time of crisis and need? They have not agreed in re, in the conciliation permit, nor with whom the assumptions will be agreed, nor whether it will repeal the labor reform, nor as will the vital minimum wage, nor in the aid to pay the loguers, nor in the Law of Sexual Freedom. In re – in re. Now, yes, I do grant you that in the end in all these matters..., we will see how the issue of the Romans ends, but even now in all these matters it is true that you in the end have imposed yourself because of the incomparency of the Vice President Churches and the party of Podemos and the commons, who even have eaten a government that helps to escape a corrupt king, a dictatorship that violates human rights to escape from European justice. We've come to this extreme. And he's talking about elections. The other day it seemed that the inquiry was complaining that there was no mass; today we are being asked for elections, with the practice that we are now accustomed by the Socialist Party to interfere in the majority of this Parliament. I don't know if he remembers that later elections were called for 155, which you gave him support. And now they want to interfere again through the judicialization of politics and we arrive already at the extreme in which you seem to know what the Supreme Court's judgment will be. They don't surprise us anymore. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word newly the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.50.0	I'll try to answer quickly everything they said. First of all, I want to tell the Member of Esquerra, man, that you are talking about "new politics when you have endorsed a partisan and sectarian reform, of political purge in your government, I am very grateful: great" new politics. Then you say: "It is that you summon us to inform. So, look, President Torra has the fate that the convoking party has to inform him, because the parliamentary groups have neither the fate nor the trick of President Torra, nor the vice-president of the government, nor that he is known for nothing; in the major crisis that we have experienced in the past, nor is he intruded. As at least, the Government of the State, you say, "tell us, call us, so they already do much more than you do here. The other day, now that you are complaining about the Mediterranean Corridor, let's see if they get any clearer between the governing partners, the Tremosa Councillor applauds the reversal of the Mediterranean Corridor, and he did it here in public and he did it at the meeting he did with the Saint-Gobain Business Committee. Home, and Mrs. Artadi, that you talk to me about division, "really, truly..., the differences in a government are normal when it comes to an agreement, which is what has happened, for example, with the foundations of the assemblies. Yes, yes, there were PSOE votes and we can support it. You don't, your division is so big that it's PDECAT voted differently than Juntes for Catalunya, Democrats differing from Esquerra Republicana. Listen, divisions in these parliamentary groups are constant in all plenary; they don't come to give us lessons. When, moreover, his president told the generation that he was an exhausted and divided government and that he was not legitimized. I'm not saying it, your president said it. Home, that's good. Ms. Caula, I don't say I call elections, I don't have a chance or a competition; what we ask is elections, and we have all the right as a parliamentary group to urge the government to call elections, because that doesn't hold up, this agony is unbearable. We don't deserve the Catalans, this government that we have that doesn't give answers to the problems we have in these moments of economic, social and health crisis. We don't deserve it. And that's why we're asking for elections. And I say this to the MP of the CUP: man, you're a lot of complaints from this government, but then you've voted for investiture and you've voted for assumptions. Yeah, and I thought I had a parliamentary group at the Congress, which is where it's probably up to him to oppose the PSOE. So, a little more honesty. Because, for example, others do and are able to be honest, like, for example, Minister Escrivá, who has acknowledged that the management of vital minimum income has not been well done, which I have not felt here yet by the Government to say my fault for how the guaranteed income of citizenship has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be late to finish the 14th point of the order of the day together with the rest of today's votes. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the misinformation and lack of transparency in the Government's external action]] [[302-0029/12]] Let us now turn to the point of dissension of the order, which is the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the misinformation and lack of transparency in the performance of the Generality abroad, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the young lady, has the words of Congresswoman Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.52.0	Thank you. It is already the height that one of the leaders of this Government, I don't know if only, but one of the leaders of opacity, is precisely the Department of Transparency. Opacity in several respects, opacity with which they have acted so far, at least so far, in relation to the possible cases of sexual harassment that have occurred in their department. Opacity and lack of the truth of former Counsellor Bosch, according to reports of the public service of the Generalitat, lying to this Parliament, a former Transparency Adviser. Possible harassment of the government delegate in Switzerland, who has never appeared in this Parliament to explain his management. Opacity also of their activities abroad. And I'm going to the counselor, that I have him here. Do you have anything to hide about the payments, the contracts you have made with the United Nations? And if not, counselor, why has my right of access to information been violated as a Member on this issue? Why? We've been waiting for that information for months. This summer, this August, I was invited to participate in a virtual working meeting of an international organization called ParlAmericas, whose members are parliaments of the countries of the American continent, just to talk about political control in Covid's time. And from that meeting I highlight two ideas, which are also two ideas that have been discussed in this Parliament: one is the importance of transparency and access to information for Members as an essential prerequisite for us to be able to exercise our role of political control over the Government, and two is the importance of parliaments to require the respective governments to reallocate budget allocations, to designate economic quotas to fight the Covid and recovery. These ideas are reflected in this motion, and I am asking you, Members, to endorse these proposals, because they are cross-cutting proposals, they are timeless proposals, and they are necessary in a democratic and rule of law state. We're asking for agility in access to information, measures... there can't be a department, a general direction of transparency, there can be cases of amparo of deputies in this chamber, and we understand or understand that we shouldn't expect these amparos to be made. There is a general direction, Parliament's relations with the Government, which should speed up procedures when any of the Members of this House have complaints because the information that is being requested is not the information that the Government is giving. Accountability. It is not enough with transparency, but there must be accountability. The managers, the senior officials, not only the advisers, the senior officials, the eventual posts, who have very high salaries, must come to explain their management of their activities, such as, for example, the government delegate in Switzerland. They have to come and they have to go through the control of this Parliament. They meet the needs of the most vulnerable. This Parliament has voted in favour of Venezuelan pensioners who have not received their pension for years and who reside in Catalonia. Why is there not a concrete plan to help these people, who are also one of the most needy groups in Catalonia? And finally, they release resources. If there is a department that is willing to release resources to allocate it to other departments that are calling for more resources, Economy, Health, Education, Social Affairs, it is precisely the Department of Transparency. This motion calls for transparency, because it is democratic regeneration, but also because it is an act of responsibility to citizens. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As no papers have been submitted, then and already to fix his opposition, the first word has the deputy Ferran Pedret, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, the Ciutadans group presents this motion in the matter of transparency, basically, which has, in any case, contents that are from the material point of view different between them, that is, they are related to the demand for transparency, but they are materially quite different. Some of them have to do with parliamentary activity itself and with the right of Members and Members that their questions are answered, that their requests for documentation and requests for information are answered, and I must say that here, both for the complaint made by the Citizens' Group, and for the reminder and press that Parliament is asking for this transparency and for this right of access to information and that the questions are answered in time and form, or that if there is any difficulty in interpreting what has been asked, the Government is in contact with the Member who is requesting the information and agrees with what exactly the reference is to, here we cannot do anything else that the Group of Members of the European Parliament thinks otherwise. Then, let's say that he makes a criticism in severe terms of the performance of the former Foreign Counselor respects a case of work and sexual settlement, which we, even though we might have written in another way, share. In any case, we understand that political responsibility was cleared up at the time when the former Councillor resigned, Mr Bosch's political responsibility. With regard to other types of responsibilities, it is not up to us as Parliament to pronounce us, but what is certain is that it is worrying that, at the time, the situation has been produced without giving little to the activation of all protocols and to the raising of an alert flag. About this we have had enough occasion to discuss here, in this chamber, and in the public debate as well. Even so, I don't think it's because of some intrinsic characteristic of the department, in absolute terms, but it's certain that it concerns to see how there has been, according to the published information, a case of work placement, in this case, not sexual as far as we know, in the Delegation of the Government to Switzerland and that we again think that it has not been resolved as it should have been resolved, because the person allegedly responsible for this assignment, instead of having been terminated, we say, in absolute terms has been relocated to an advisory place in the Department of Presidency. We have asked parliamentary questions about this and all the derivatives it has. We hope that in time and form these questions are answered, but it seems to us that perhaps it would be convenient that in the course of this debate, and since the counselor is and has the ability to use the word, if he considers that he has to say something respect for what he can say. And I'm saying it without controversy unless I have the opportunity to offer explanations respect this, all the while knowing that in time it was produced at another time. And then there's a question that I don't consider to be very relevant, but it's true that I don't know if it fits into everything with a motion on transparency, that it's the demand that the Government of the Generality assists, in a way, the pensioners come while they don't have the tickets that correspond to their pensions. We, of course, agree, even though we think that there may be a little bit of confusion in this House, but we agree and vote for it as we have voted for it on other occasions. And, finally, there's a petition for information that may be a little bit naive about the process with the citizens' and citizens' data bases in Catalonia with that mobilization of the U of October. I don't think you're going to get an answer for that in your parliamentary office, I'm sure, but go ahead, we'll vote for it. But it seems to us that he won't get an answer. In any case, even being concerned and relieving of what is politically most relevant from that date is that it feels like a great mobilization there are parliamentary groups that continue to think of there as a political mandate to build an independent Catalan state against all the constitutional and statutory reform procedures that there is, and also ignoring the existence of a very significant part of Catalonia's citizenship, possibly the majority of which agree with the electoral results, which does not share this political objective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.56.0	Thank you very much. We're talking now about a Ciutadans youth on the issue of transparency, who should recognize that it's one of the priorities, about the objectives his group is working between the Commission of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. We are very much in agreement with the diagnosis you are making of the government's lack of real response to many of the questions and many of the demands, and many of the petitions made by parliamentary groups. Surely the case of their group is more obvious because they are also the ones who have the most ability to ask more questions and more requirements. But it's that we just have to set an example, which just yesterday was commented on. The month of generation has voted in commission the appearance of Vice President Pere Aragonès and the Counsellor of Territori, Damià Calvet, to give explanations about the Barcelona World, and we are in September and we are still waiting for it. That is to say, it is another of the characteristics of this government, which, for one band, ignores the motions and resolutions that are approved in Parliament, and a CUP motion served the month of July because we can debate it, because directly the Interior Department, for example, allows the luxury of saying that they do not comply with what the parliament says because what the total parliament says is why; the government clearly has some fears that there is not enough and that most of the opposition that approves allusions and motions, and then normally what it does is to pull pilots out, not to complete them and to apologize. And in the case of transparency and in the concrete case of some of the petitions made by the deputy of Ciutadans on the journeys of former advisor Bosch, it reached the point of having to appeal to the agency of Guarantee of the Right to Public Information, the GAIP, who gave the reason to the deputy. And I also don't know how many Bureau meetings discussing this issue because there is still an incomprehensible resistance on the part of the department to respond to the deputy's petition, with the same GAIP saying you have right to have this answer. Therefore, in this sense, with these fears all the support for the settlement that is made by the Ciutadans Group. It also seems to us that they have taken advantage of the motion to raise other issues that they do not strictly have to deal with, this is the decision of their group. We believe that, indeed, the themes of Councilman Bosch are as much as the self-scheming may be a little forced, but in this case, we share the alarm, we share the alert. We were going to be here the day of Councilman Alfred Bosch's appearance. We share that neither the whole, nor the contents, nor the attitude of the ex-adviser was respected with most of the Members we were there. He reacted with a hyper-defensive attitude and more quickly accused of possible complaints to MPs for defamation, for the things we say in that committee. So, we, despite the fact that we think he's actually been wearing shoes, will give support to the points that they have. We believe that what went to the Foreign Office was very difficult. We have seen after the same government has practically given the reason for what happened and are now studying actions against the former advisor. It's better late than never, they say. And as already mentioned, another case of work placement has now emerged, in this case of the former delegate to Switzerland, Mr. Manonelles, who also clearly concerns us, because..., basically what concerns us is that it looks like another case that was already known, there were already indications, there were already workers who had communicated this situation, this discomfort, and neither was it done, as at least during Mr. Bosch's term of office. From the month of March it seems that it is beginning to investigate. We would add to the petition that there really is to be acclaim, acclaim for why. It's probably not a department theme, but maybe it is a theme that characterizes some of Mr. Bosch's team's performances that we are very concerned about. We are very concerned, and we were also able to share with the counselor, in a meeting, what is the situation in which the department is left after all these things that are going on. Other points that include the motion. We, with the theme of Venetian pensioners, honestly believe that it does not touch, that it does not touch because we are surprised much that in the attitude that normally Ciutadans does not want to talk about foreign policy, not to talk about..., to say that we do not have to position ourselves on the king, the only exception of this theme for them is Venice. With Venice we do have to put ourselves; from Venice the Generalitat must do everything, must make statements, must make positions, and at some point we have a motion for a resolution that repeatedly came from the table of giving support to Mr. Guaidó. Because, clearly, in the end, as Mr. Guaidó didn't just get what he was trying to do, so it didn't just make clear the action. That is to say, Venetian pensioners, and Costa Rica and Honduras and El Salvador and Ecuador and Morocco, because there are pensioners from all these countries who are living here. We do not understand why there must be a special concern for the Venetians, if it is not for an ideological, political and perhaps electoral interest of the Ciutadans friends because from here to six months there are parliamentary elections in Venice. So I'm sure they'd better have that point, be able to assume that point. And in which we won't give support, and you know, it's about reducing spending to the Department of Foreign Affairs. We believe that the Department of Foreign Affairs has a good part to play in cooperation with development; we would be very concerned that a new reduction affected by this heading, and Ciutadans' proposal is a generic mass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.58.0	Thank you, President – from the escó. Well, we find ourselves in front of a citizen's youth who is a barren, a poti-pot that goes from transparency to Venice, going through other themes. In fact, in more concrete and specific terms, between this aguabarreig, between this poti-poti, we find that it is a young man who speaks, effectively, of transparency, speaks of disregard for negligence and responsibility in cases of male violence, and then practices the usual attacks and taxation on what is Catalan foreign policy and public diplomacy, and with an absolutely out of time appendage referring to Venice. Well, we, despite this general inconsistency, and it seems to us that this general opportunism in this young man, we can do nothing but support some of the points that speak of transparency. First, because we generally agree, they are claims of transparency, they are claims of principles of transparency that are logical and must be logical in any democratic government. But we have to make a point. In point 2.b we will abstain, because as it is proposed, we could understand that it is an attempt to claim that the Government is responsible for the prosecution of the Parliament, but we are very concerned that this is also due to the logic of the prosecution that Ciutadans wants to induce in this institution on behalf of and representation of the Attorney General of the State, and therefore it seems that what they want is for this Parliament to join in front of the Constitutional Court, the Government of the State, the Supreme Court or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Well, we will vote in favour, obviously, of reprehensible negligence and responsibilities related to male or work violence that may have occurred. And finally, obviously, we will vote against everything that is an attack on which should be a public diploma, a Catalan international foreign policy, which in any case we do not share with the Government because of its shortcomings, its shortcomings or the discrepancy that we have with some of its objectives or priorities, but not because of the fact that it is produced. And finally, I'm sure Ciutadans will be surprised. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] an economic protection for the resident population of Venice and you do not do so, in the crisis situation in which we find ourselves – I conclude, President – that you do not ask protection and rights for the migrant people who are object of institutional violence, for the workers and temporary workers, for all those workers who have to live and work in conditions of exploitation, of inequality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.59.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.60.0	...and injustice and I don't ask for rights for these people. It's a concept of solidarity that we don't share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, there are few original sins that accompany the Government during the legislature. Undoubtedly, the most serious for us is the lack of democratic action with its constant will to govern outside the constitutional framework. But another is the lack of transparency as an essential pillar in the government's political action. In other words, the government's misinformation is not the result of an accident or a lack of diligence, but is a part, an essential element of the government's political action, and on a double basis. On the one hand, there is a lack of transparency in the ordinary political action of the Government, constantly violating the parliamentary rights of the opposition. The control sessions of the President of the Government end up turning into the control session of the President of the Government to the deputies of the opposition, not to mention the lack of written answers to the questions posed by the deputies, and not to mention the lack of access of the deputies of this chamber to the direct sources of information, as may be the delegates of the Generalitat abroad. Therefore, lack of information on the ordinary action of the Government. But, on the other hand, that lack of transparency also reaches episodes that have nothing to do with the ordinary action of the Government, even reaches sordid episodes as in which the former chief of staff of ex-advisor Bosch was involved, and even the role that the ex-advisor supposedly played trying to hide these episodes, right? And all this in the Department of Transparency, which would be ironic if it weren't for women who suffered and continue to suffer for those damnable facts. And it also rains over wet, because it seems that similar episodes have also occurred in the delegation in Switzerland, and once again it seems that the Government's action is to cover up or cover up those unfortunate episodes. In short, the motion is intended to ensure that the Government fulfils its legal mandate of transparency and, for that reason, we will support that motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the return of Congressman Jordi Orobtig, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.64.0	Well, thank you very much, Vice President. Councillor and Members, Members, we find ourselves with a motion from Ciutadans that I would like to call it a trap, that is, those who, in principle, inspire something worthwhile and who should defend any parliamentarians, such as the execution of power remains over the effective control of the legislature. The truth is, however, that the young man is pursuing another objective and developing it in short. Some of the sides of the House, as I have said, are of the opinion that, as I have said, it is a matter of some language which denotes the inclination in the national part of the group that proposes it, they are fully acceptable to any member of Parliament, such as the need for transparency and struggle against opacy, something that I understand that we all share, the need to have in time and form requests for information or public documentation girls for groups, parliamentary sub-groups and Members who integrate them, which are already more basic... In any case, in parliamentary right; and all those who have to see with the members of the groups and sub-groups of Parliament to exercise access to the information in order to be able to carry out the activity for which we are elected. That said, I think it would also have to be the responsibility of all the Members and all the groups at the time of positioning us if the toilets that they are doing to the government and to a concrete department, in this case, are in fact, not only for the form, and I insist on these principles, but also respect the substance. And here's when things don't fit. The conclusion that we come to – and in this case I have come to it especially – is that the lords of Ciutadans are like the wreckage that is left before a vehicle to be able to claim compensation from the insurance company. Parliamentarian spam, they make repeated requests for information, many of them perfectly accessible from the same web as the Department of External Affairs to the Transparency Portal and with a hidden will to provoke the collapse of the Administration and to devote more human and material resources to these tasks than to the government's own. Finally, they had received an answer from the department, even though it is out of the question with regard to the request for information, they ask the Bureau of Parliament with the sole objective of being able to add one more piece of information to the complaint fee and raise a motion with which it deals. These practices, you who always say you're working on the law, are qualified as right-wing. And you do a lot of work, right-wing, captivating it, interpreting it according to its conveniences, to the point of forming part of the same political and legal corpus capable of accusing it of rebellion and condemning by siege those who completed its electoral program. To put black on white to this right-hand bus, I wanted to recall some facts that already, in response to an inquiry, Councillor Bernat Solé expressed that day. They already know we don't follow the crowds, the interrogations. What he expressed was that 545 of the 849 petitions for information rebuds for the department belonging to the Ciutadans group, is that Ciutadans has raised 65_percent of the petitions for information; that of these, 63_percent, is to say, 346 questions are easily searchable for the fact that they have been published on the Transparency Portal, with the aggravating factor that many of these petitions for information have been repeated, is duplicate or triple. And from this we in Parliament have experience. We all know that, in committees, you do not seem to repeat once and for all the same motions for resolutions with the sole objective of artificially putting together parliamentary initiative data in order to appear as the group that is heading this way. He concluded that one above is that you are a fake, a fake group. And if it wasn't enough, the young man was filled with inexactities. It is not possible to raise a motion like the one they are planting, to ask for taxation by the Union of Accounts of government delegations. The Trade Union of Offices Tax Accounts when it finds it appropriate and, moreover, the later taxation of the annexes is of the year 2017. Therefore, inform yourself 'in a little before planting according to five agreements. It is not possible to question the very limited resources that the Generalitat has allocated, which have served to appropriate three thousand Catalans who during the confinement have remained outside, when you, from Andalusia, have allocated 30 million euros. In short, a young man who is looking for his own, but if what we've raised so far was captivated, what he's raising respect for Councilman Bosch is political trilerism. There's no line of congruence on the young man with that question they raised. For the most part, I suggest that the charges against Councillor Bosch are extemporary, that they are after the same inquiry and, therefore, from here my complaint, Member, for the fact that this correction of data has been allowed. What else do they want from Councilman Bosch? Counselor Bosch has done what can be required more than a policy, has given up his job and I ask him, all the parliamentary groups that today for the pre-election situation will cost this young man: they take an introspective look at their political organizations and question their whole process. If there have been no governing bodies of parties in which Members of Parliament have been appointed, which have not been taken away from the assessors, and have not been asked for any responsibility; if there have been no removal of government delegates who, in this case, have been terminated by the Department of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.65.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.66.0	... – I'm finished, President–, knowing precisely that there were these procedures that, like that of Counsellor Bosch, have been filtered out in an interested way. In short, this young man, if he approves, and I finish, does not make us better parliamentarians, nor puts in value this chamber, this young man and his approval, if that is so, is constituted as a monument to... [[The first vice president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it's the turn of MP Aurora Madaula, from Junts to Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.68.0	Thank you, President. Members, good morning, parliamentary workers... we find ourselves in front of a motion of the Ciutadans group about the supposed lack of transparency of the government and the Department of Foreign Affairs where there are many fears. For what they ask about the transparency of the Government, access to data and public information, the Government has already responsed them both in the appearance as in the interrogations, as in the commissions, has already responsed them that they are compromised with transparency, that all the data, agendas and information, as well as the assumptions, both from the department as from the delegations abroad that you ask at point 4 are published on the websites of the department and the Transparency Portal, the governmentbert. I'm stuck. How much. On another occasion they asked for it; I myself taught them from this day on the councillor's agenda, which, like the rest of the government's other high offices, is published, together with remuneration, good relations, gifts, travel..., according to the code of conduct for other offices. What happens is that this is what you ask in point 5 about the publication of these data in relation to potential staff is not regulated in this way, because it is not regulated so the law, as their working rules are not under the same obligations as the other ones, because they are not political ones. We are pleased that it requires transparency from the government, access to data, to make democracy even fuller, but we would also like to see it done when it comes to institutions such as the monarchy, the Spanish corrupt monarchy, since you have voted against the Spanish monarchy's commission of inquiry in this Parliament. Indeed, they should be transparent and clear and democratic, if it is possible to be democratic defending a monarchy heritage of Francoism and where one learns by blood designs. And, therefore, we would like you to also defend the publication of all the pieces of this corrupt Spanish institution – which you do not do. At the 3rd point of the young man, we are pleased that they finally recognize that October 1, 2017 was a reference, so they say in their young man. And no, it's not a crime, because calling for references was decriminalized in 2005 for the Zapatero government, against something that had been introduced by the Aznar government to end the Ibarretxe plan. And it wasn't illegal – it wasn't illegal. What was illegal and transparent people was the performance of the Spanish government, violating our civil and political rights and helping us save our time to vote. Here it would have to be transparent to know who ordered the charges and based on what concept. But I imagine that this must be part of the Catalonian operation of the PP, and you will not ask for any explanation or transparency, in this case, when the assaults were the citizens of Catalonia. In this young man too, they ask, by the way, to sweep things, as I have already said, help the Venetian pensioners. We do not doubt that this collection is going through badly, just as other collections of people migrated from other countries, not only from Llatina America, and also to Catalonia. Through the cooperation of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, different development assistance programs are subsidized to Central and Caribbean and South America, but also to many territories of the Mediterranean and sub-Saharan Africa. Currently, the current projects are targeting international humanities for such a far-reaching response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, you have already done what you ask at point 7, which is to release resources and allocate them to the Covid fight. In short, it seems to us that you are already doing it and that you have no reason to ask it and to follow it up; you have all the right but we will vote against it, except for the reference to reprobation of the attitude of former advisor Bosch, because as it seems that the public service report shows was aware of the alleged sexual assault on the workers of the department that carried out its head of office and did not put it into knowledge. We have already shown ourselves to be very critical, we defended in their appearance that you resign, and we were pleased that you resigned, but we also reprove this attitude that took place on the 29th of July, a high and threatening attitude with the deputies, which we criticized, and that, therefore, we consider it appropriate to take into account. Anyway, I also have to say that it's not the..., it doesn't seem right to introduce it to us, it seems very strong as they introduced it with a rectification on August 31st, if it doesn't seem bad to me. We always condemn and condemn these attitudes, demand transparency and demand accountability in all cases related to masculinist rapes to eradicate this scourge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Since there were no reviews, there was no return to the proposed group. The debate is over, so the record that this young man's vote is going to do as in other cases to finish the 14th point of the order of the day at the end of late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of government's general policy]] [[302-00230/12]] Let us now turn to the agenda item, which is the motion following the question on the general government policy balance presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.70.0	Thank you very much. Well, we present this young man with a well-rounded political situation that we would fix in three points, to sum up. In the first place, a political action that has long not prioritized the outcome of the economic crisis or the struggle against the pandemic. Although it is repeated that the government is trying to prioritize it, this is obviously not happening. The fait accompli of this was an absolutely sterile debate, as I said before, on a previous motion, on the monarchy, which only served, therefore, to make clear the deep division between the members of the Government, because the great debate finally was whether or not to publish approved resolutions in the plenary, which were not able or only to publish. This is the proof, I insist, that at the moment the government has tried to prioritize neither the outcome of the crisis nor the fight against the pandemic, but it has continued with its usual debates. To add that this attitude ends up causing institutional instability, an uncertainty, in the worst possible moment, which was the time to bring serenity, to bring unity to the government, to bring dialogue with opposition. So, it was all the other way around. Secondly, a systematic failure to complete the parliamentary resolutions adopted on the fight against the pandemic. Thirdly, to a deep division of Catalan society – which has been going on for a long time – a deep division was added first in the separatist movement, and it was translated into a deep division – we said before – in the government itself. In this context, obviously – this was also explained in a previous motion of the Socialist Party, that a substantial part coincided with what we say – it requires a new government out of the ballot box that guarantees the establishment, certainly, of civil, political unity in Catalonia, and that can give a boost that is needed more than ever. And when it comes to the impulse, here is where we make the most obvious contribution to our vision of Catalonia, also to our ideological vision – as is evident – and which we could summarize in four elements. First, it is possible to face a tax reform that stimulates the Catalan economy. We believe that with the charges we have prosecutors right now, this is an unstoppable obstacle. Then, the protection of educational freedom, which we believe is being attacked in the last few years here in Catalonia. He respects private property. Yesterday we had a debate on the issue. We insist: only from respect for private property can we then guarantee the right to housing. That is to say, they are not right that they are faced, all the contrary: in any modern democratic society they are two rights that must go perfectly from the hand. And then, some elements like fighting this certain tourism phobia that since certain ideological positions have been built and that also at the worst moment is sinking a sector that obviously pulls out of the pandemic is painted more than anything else and that means 12_percent of Catalan GDP. It is therefore absolutely suicide to continue with this policy. Fighting illegal occupation – as I said a while ago – would be another substantial point of this motion. And finally I've already advanced that we've been able to reach agreements first to accept some ideas and also to get to deal some texts with Ciutadans, with the Socialist Party, also with Juntes per Catalunya and with Esquerra Republicana. Thank your arrangement in the dialog, also the items that have not been accepted, are also appreciated, because we believe that in any case they can help improve the youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. They have the word now to defend the papers presented in the first place by Congresswoman Eva Granados of the PSC Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.72.0	Thank you, President. And thanks also to the People's Parliamentary Group, which presented this motion, to which we have made two points. One has accepted and the other has not, because it has reached an agreement with the government of Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia. You see, we see the motion and we quite agree with the question made by the chairman of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández. The motion makes generic proposals before the pandemic is managed, which we too will reap, and it is also about the exhaustion of the legislature. It is also about the contributions that the Popular Parliamentary Group makes to what it does to the management, and here we will obviously not coincide. It is his proposals for taxation, for a tax on the rights that we have nothing to do with. And then it ends up in two subjects, in education, you make a barrier of what would be the defense of the Catalan educational model, where there are also concerts, with which you have to see the segregated school, and then you enter the illegal occupation of habitats. Then, quickly passing them on is obvious that we agree – now Mr Fernández said in the interventions we have made – in the exhaustion of the legislature. It has been many months since President Tora said that he had a divided government, that he and the president were disqualified and that the legislature was over. Therefore, it is not that the opposition is said or the citizens are told when they are asked questions, but it is clear that it is election time, that a legislature has ended that has directed a government unable to reach agreement and understanding with opposition groups before and also during the pandemic. Secondly, the House is also talking about how the government is to manage this pandemic and, therefore, here we have to put into place that we have made several plenums, that many resolutions have been approved in this Parliament and that, unfortunately, not even in the difficult moments that are living and before the offers of opposition, not only from my group, from other groups, to agree on the presuppositional reorganization before the Covid, so all this has not been enough because the government and the president tend to seek to dialogue and agree on these presuppositionary modifications. In fact, they don't give or explain what they've approved of the government. And we believe that we need to mobilize all resources, that we need to focus on economic recovery and social reconstruction from the agreement, and it is clear that the government is not posing. And here we would clearly distinguish what the Government of Spain is doing, with more than 3,000_million extraordinary who arrive here in Catalonia, and who work from the dialogue through the conferences of presidents and sectoral conferences. Just beyond what's going on here in Catalonia. That's why we'll also collect all the points you have to deal with the balance and priority of the Covid. We also agree with what you have to see with this reproof of identity policy on the part of the Government of the Generality. Doing the hard work and the willingness to continue with the independence process does not help to overcome the division that you yourself have installed in Catalan society, and it seems that there are no consequences. They left their businesses and now we're seeing the consequences of not investing in our home. Now we see some work places that have to lose their homes because big multinationals have decided not to invest in the process that followed the 2017 process. And it is obvious that if we continue with the confrontation there will not be a return of the people and there will be nothing to see with the economic well-being of our country. Everyone who touches it gets it. And entering – in the time I am missing – in education. For what he does to educative themes, here the P.P.'s movement sweeps what is educative concerts with segregated education. And I have to say to them: it's stable and effective at the concerts, of course, it's already known our respect for the Education Service of Catalonia and its disabled. Yes, the Socialists' will is to change the rules to gain co-responsibility, but our opinion respects the sex-secreting schools, which are not public and, therefore, here we will vote against them. Yes, the announcement that at this point there will be a different vote from the Member of Units in my group. And in the time that I remain, illegal occupation of habitats. It's a problem, it's a problem in our country and it's a big problem, and they're leaving the mayors alone together. The Generality is not offering the habitat for vulnerable collections and this is also an increase in the crime and performance of mafias in our country's barrels. And we don't think the General can look any other way. It is necessary to guarantee the right to housing, because it is an important concern of the city council. I have to tell you that the agreement between Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, with the PP, of a proposal by the law that they want to present to the Congress. We think we need to talk about it, but we don't need to do what happened here in the logues, we need to do a reflection and a dialogue and an agreement, and therefore this point will not be picked up as it is. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It's over, President. We believe that the Generality must act in front of the criminal occupations, that the Generality has the skills to provide more housing and that it is not leading this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of Congresswoman Lorena Roldán, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.74.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, today we are discussing a motion that is, therefore, a kind of summary of the government's management at the head of the Generalitat, of the management or of the absence of management, because the truth is that the data are devastating. Look, Save the Children puts Catalonia at the tail of Europe in child poverty rates. Catalonia is also leading the increase in unemployment in this month of August, with more than 11,300 registered in the SOC. More than twenty thousand dependents are also waiting for a place of residence, and surely this data has to do with one of the news that we suspected and that these days we were confirmed, and that is that you cut social spending by 8.8_per_cent during the process, while in the rest of autonomy it increased. Catalonia also, unfortunately, leads cuts in education and health. In the past year they have stopped investing up to €590 per inhabitant, with a reduction in primary care spending of 24_percent less than a decade ago. We could continue with this data, because the truth is that we are in a very worrying situation, and the truth is that Mr. Torra said that he had not come to manage an autonomy, and he has fulfilled it at joint feet. But the problem is not only Mr. Torra, but all the separatist governments, especially those of recent years, whose plan, whose objective has only revolved around the break with the rest of Spain, and everything else either does not exist or is subject to independence. And you have spent years cheating and covering up your shortcomings and your mismanagement, because there have been others pulling the cart, because the self-employed have continued to undertake, betting all their assets to fulfill their dream, because despite these cuts in essential services, such as education and health, the professionals have tried twice as hard to compensate for this lack of resources, or because, for example, when aid from dependency does not arrive, families juggle to be able to care for those who need them. You have been cheating, you have been covering up your mismanagement at the expense of the effort and sacrifice of Catalan society. Now, yes, they have not stopped wasting the money of all Catalans, setting up, therefore, those embassies that have propaganda, those pseudo-offices, which we do not know what they are dedicated to, these so-called committees of experts and, ultimately, everything that serves their separatist closure. But the data don't cheat. So, when a health and economic crisis like the one we are seeing now arrives, there is absolutely nothing that is capable of covering up this disaster, this disaster of management. Here everything that has to do with the process, then, is above all, even seems to be above the pandemic as well. And I'm going to read you a few words that Mr. Torra himself said just a few weeks ago, in the midst of a boom in Catalonia, which he said to us: "We run the risk of thinking that the management of the epidemic is a single political objective. I repeat that independence is more necessary and urgent than ever, said Mr Torra. Well, look, no. Here what is more necessary and more urgent than ever is to manage this pandemic, which has claimed the lives of thirteen thousand Catalans who depend on you, these Catalans, 7 million and half Catalans who depend on that management that Mr. Torra seems not to want to do. And I'm going to tell you a reality that you may not know, and it's that people really care about the date of the end of the pandemic, not the date of Mr. Torra's appointment with justice because the law has been blown. It cannot be that, while the whole world is pending the vaccine calendar, you, separatism, force Catalonia to be pending the judicial calendar of Mr Torra, is that it cannot be. And, look, during these months we have worked hard to reach out to them, to try to collaborate, to offer our help so that you got to work on managing this crisis and that you would already leave behind the infertile ground of the process, but you have been unable to accept this help. Therefore, if not even at a time like this, in the midst of the pandemic, in the midst of the global, health and economic crisis you have not been able to accept this help is that you will never change, you have thrown the towel at working for the Catalans. But, look, we don't and we don't have any problem working together, sitting down with the rest of the groups if that serves to improve the lives of the Catalans, because it is that we are all here for that, not for other things, to improve the lives of the Catalans, and precisely for that purpose we have tabled and tabled several amendments to this proposal from the People's Subgroup, concerning issues on which we too have been working for a long time and on which we are very concerned, such as the issue of occupation. Clearly, we have to protect those who comply with the law, not those who skip it. And here, then, we have serious problems with the occupation. One_of_each_four occupations that occur in our country takes place in Catalonia. In that too we are unfortunately the worst in all of Spain. Catalan occupations triple Andalusian and 6 times those of the Community of Madrid. So we have to stop him. We have to help these people and families who have lost their homes, I insist, because others have decided to skip the law, a home that surely takes a long time to recover, which on many occasions they do, because, in unfortunate conditions, with their homes destroyed and after an expensive and long judicial process. We from Citizens have promoted a legislative reform in Congress. We have also already proposed municipal plans here in Catalonia. We have also registered a reform of the Catalan Civil Code, in order to be able to provide more tools to the communities of neighbours when they detect an occupation, and thus to avoid the social conflicts that often generate these illegal occupations. I think it is up to all the public representatives to get over this problem, which, I insist, particularly affects here in Catalonia. For our part, therefore, thank you for those transactions that we have been able to negotiate with the Subgroup of the People's Party. There have been some things that have remained in the way, but also, we are grateful for the good predisposition and I also say to you that our vote will be favourable, not in all respects, but in most parts of the text. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Adriana Delgado has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.76.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, this PP's motion on the balance of the government's general policy has a lot of free criticisms of constructive people in the Generality's actions to reverse the Covid crisis, which is being done, and a second part devoted to various issues, in which the housing occupations stand out, where we have made the main points. With regard to the management of the crisis, we are defending that it is governing itself for all citizens with numerous actions, some of which are reflected in resolutions of this Parliament and which, as we have said, must be effective and respond to the needs of the moment. We have seen it change and we need to be able to know who they are, how to try to solve them and have enough ability to adapt to do it, as with the different rebounds in the territory. Like examples of actions clearly Pla for economic recovery and social protection, also Pla for reinforcement and transformation of primary care, all measures for safe return to classrooms, contracting professionals, Pla digital education, etc. All this with economic transparency, explaining the changes to Parliament in a report, as the fear that they have also accepted of respect for us says. And yes, as far as weights are concerned, while we're still working to get a state close to us, because for Esquerra independence is precisely the tool that needs to be used to achieve a greater welfare, better and equal opportunities for everyone, cohesion and more social rights. You're more concerned about the young man. As I was saying, it's a barrier. Tax incentives for economic sectors must unfortunately be decided by them regulating certain taxes on Madrid, and the tax on estates – we will not tire of repeating this – we believe it is an instrument of equity and redistribution of wealth, and now in this new crisis, as always, that makes it more unequal. For what it does to other points that are related to education and housing – we have also reiterated on other occasions – we do not want to finance with public resources schools that secrete boys and girls. And it is clear that public policies are to be implemented that facilitate access to housing. Personally, I have been called to the attention of the points that deal with the issues of occupation. I'm saying this because it's a theme I miss in my municipality, soc mayoress of Sant Vicenç de Castellet. We've been in business for years, but most of them are due to economic and social reasons, and they've occupied empty floors with banks and big tempers, which have a lot of barbarity, and we're trying to work on these cases from social and territorial development areas to find solutions to their vulnerability situation. But we also have people who work for delinquency, they work for cultivation and trafficking marijuana, for example. These, obviously, are the ones that cause the problems of coexistence and at the same time have generated organized groups that have created a business through facilitating habitats to be occupied by changing payments. And we must prevent and prosecute criminal occupations, for example, with legal changes, but we must also be aware that concrete measures are State competence. In short, what I would like to highlight is that it is not the same occupation to live to occupy to do illegal activities. And it is also different if the owner is a private individual or is a bank or a fund of reversal to which some are accustomed to profiting by taking over the rights of the property, when they have received millions and millions of public euros and are also responsible for the situation, as they say, of hundreds of empty floors, as at least in my municipality, which do not maintain, that they do not interest in putting the market in which we need, beyond the public park of habitats that we can offer the administrations. My question is, the beginning of the deployment of a criminal occupation, what do we do when the owner is not a private individual and nothing forces him to measure in this sense? And I insist on differentiating the types of occupation and the diversity of areas, which I think we have to deal with in order to debate, because in our respect papers, two of which have obviously not accepted the three aircraft linked in coherence with our position, we have placed the emphasis on the need for legal reforms, but also from a guaranteed perspective to prevent the essential struggle against the criminal occupation from being detrimental to all occupations of vulnerable families. And we reject populisms and demagogies that give to groups of ultra-rights who want to clean up society and take away the ones they occupy out of need. It's not the same. We have to work on all fronts, he commented, differentiating the casuistics and allowing the dislocation in criminal cases, because many times...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.77.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.78.0	...to suffer the consequences on a daily basis. I'm done, President. They also need to pursue those who have allowed and allow the right to housing not to be a right for everyone, but a trade for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.80.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, this Parliament has a few perverse moments of parliamentary coexistence, because, if I thank them for the deal and the tone they have had in this motion and in some points that we have even been able to deal and agree on, the foundation of this Parliament is so bad, it is so abnormal, it is so undemocratic, that we don't want to get used to it from Juntas per Catalunya. In a normal democratic country, in a country that is a guide to the polls, President Puigdemont would be the president of Catalonia, because that's why the Catalan society voted for it on 21st December, because that's why he closed it to some European elections with a victory without pal·liatius, and President Forcadell would be in this hemisphere, where she wanted. And Oriol Junqueras would preside over Esquerra and make politics freely without being secreted to the prison. And in Jordi Cuixart would be a free man presiding over Ómnium. And Jordi Sánchez would work freely in Junts for Catalonia. And authentic political acts such as Councillors Rull, Turull and Romeva, or the Lower Councillor, would do what they did best for their lives: serve Catalan society in full freedom. And Marta Rovira and Anna Gabriel are setting free women, as they are now, but free at home as well. Like the Ponsati and Serret advisors. Like the Puig and Comín advisors. As the Adri, as in Valtònyc. And now we are summarizing all these political and human pacts that I have just listed and we are also putting in place the thousands that suffer ideological and political persecution on the part of Spanish justice, in its moment with the People's Party view, and now with the view of the most progressive government or repression of history formed by socialists and commons. All this, of all this, of all this political normality, that it is a striking fact and that it should not be necessary to be independentist to hear, assume and empathize with this patience and, above all, this democratic normality, you do not talk about it when you look at the legislature. It doesn't exist. And to this bloody repression, we add to the autonomic evils of this Parliament: the fiscal deficit that is social deficit, the Constitutional, like the third democratic Spanish chamber that abhors the sovereignty of this Parliament, the presuppositions lied to by a State that makes them – and these will not be different – have never, ever, where they have compromised themselves with Catalonia, the minority of language, the persecution of Catalonia's foreign action, the approval and enforcement of regulations on migration and the accolade of the Catalan society that the Catalan society has made types of rejection. Certainly, congratulated this government, it has already made the southern border fence higher than the one Trump wanted in Mexico, a_meter exactly. Congratulations. The double measuring rod between the CDRs – certainly, I soc CDR – or be a faixista entering Blanquerna in Madrid. The struggle against the national, political and linguistic reality of the Catalan Countries. This doesn't change. That's all there is every day, more than forty years ago. And, besides, all reprisals are still today. All prisoners are today's day. All exiles are today. But in the midst of this unceasing terratremol, we are presented with a motion that talks about the rights of Catalans and Catalans, about how the government faces the Covid pandemic. That yes, that understands of territories, that they can do like President Torra, like Councilwoman Budo, and not go on vacation and do the dues, and arrive in September with dues made, arrive in September with the busts made. A motion on how to guarantee basic rights like right to habitat. By the way, were we yesterday when we were talking about llogers? , preparing the constitutional appeal? President Tora's government governs and governs well. This autonomy, which is worth the paradox, neither you nor us want it. You fly us in an eternal 155, to the Supreme, with the Constitutional, with the unionist majorities in the Congress and the Senate, who are always there and never fail against Catalonia. And we want a Catalan Republic in which everyone can exercise all their civil and political rights. No comedy, I don't come to explain the shortcomings of an autonomous government that retaliate as if it were a bonsai. Do not explain to me problems of any kind, which we know and which concern us, from the poor children, the lack of housing, the lack of resources to the Catalan school. I could answer them with a xifra_sole: the €16,000_million that every year the Catalan society pays and they don't return to Catalonia. But I won't, because that's a lot more than that. We want a country Catalan Railways, we don't want a country Renfe. We want a country where democracy reigns, not a country where the Bourbons reign. It's another system, another paradigm. Another country. And here the political correction would make me say that neither worse nor better, ours. But it's fake. An independent Catalonia will be better, much better, because a country in democracy like the one we are building is always an infinitely better country than a country where it is spread right and with majorities that irresponsibly endorse repression and political persecution. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.82.0	Thank you, President. The People's Party begins this young man by noting that this government does not have a political project for the Catalan and Catalan groups, which is true, we share. They also tell us that the legislature is exhausted and that elections are being called, something that most of us, President Torra, is sharing, which is who is to call them. But, of course, they are already beginning to make one of these revolutions, in the purest style of Ciutadans, telling us that the Government is attacking the majority of the Catalan population by restricting educational freedom and encouraging illegal occupations. And it's clear that the points are over here. Let us remain clear and respectfully: you are a party of dreets, a Spanishist and a monarchist, and we are a party of the left, a republican and a sovereignist. So, very, very in common, so, it's not what we have, things as they are. But this does not mean that in some points we may agree that, so, this, the generic things and principles of these universals practically can be agreed. We believe that yes, that the government is exhausted, we believe that elections are called and we agree that, while this does not happen, obviously the focus must be on responding to the social and economic crisis, and on fighting the pandemic. So these are the points of your proposal that we would be voting for. Beyond that, it is clear that the outcome of the crisis that you are planting has nothing to do with what we would propose. You are the most responsible for the management of the 2008 crisis – and we talked about it yesterday – with neoliberal and rights-based policies that led to one of the worst social and economic crises, that left people in the street, that rescued banks, that did not rescue people, and that what they did was increase inequalities, feel Spain one of the most unequal countries in the whole of the European Union. And yet, even so, the multiple evidences of the fractions of their receipts, so they insist, one time and another, on a tax rebate that the only thing he will do is have fewer resources to strengthen public services such as health and education. They continue to focus on the most vulnerable populations and continue to criminalize the occupation without distinguishing between the vulnerable families of the criminal occupations. For you, it's still the same, because your proposal has no distinction in this matter. Then I'll go in more detail. And then they also end up posing, even on education issues, so differentiated education. We have said this many times before, but we oppose the defense that you make of differentiated education, of the segregation of students by sex. We absolutely disagree with the privileges that you want to give to the concerted school, for which they claim all rights and all resources but do not claim any responsibility. We are also against the defence that you make of the freedom of choice of center over social cohesion and educational equity. No, they won't find us on this. And now, the subject of the occupations, which you recreate, in fact bring recreation to the summer. Their group together with other members of the Congress and sensational media have tried, and surely they have also managed to get thanks to the support of security alarm companies and all the publicity they have put in these media, to generate an alarm so that people thought that if they went on vacation or went to make an ice cream when they returned home they would find it busy. Luckily, we also had a number of expert and judicious jurists, such as Judge Joaquim Bosch, who made it clear that this is not happening, that it is not so, that people when they go to make ice cream and come home to their homes are not their home occupied, and not when they go on vacation to find their home occupied. You have returned to the topic of private property debate and say that they are not rights that are in conflict, the conflict between private property and the right to housing. So, when there's someone who has fifteen floors of private property asking someone who doesn't have three hundred euros more than a month, so there's a conflict between rights, and it's that of private property that's imposing on anyone who doesn't have to pay to live at home. So, yes, there is a conflict and that's why the regulation of loggers. And with the issue of occupation, let's start to distinguish already because it's home occupation, when it's home abuse, and they do intervene in security and make out the people you find, when it's home that is home or second residence, it's been three weeks, three days, three months. They're interfering with the safety nets. So, it's not that you come in, you find someone, and you can't take him out. It's not true. Most of the occupations are of vulnerable population, of vulnerable families. That they're victims of mafias? Yeah. So, let's fight the mafias. But how do you fight mafias? With resources, the squadrons and the jutjats, which is also the way to fight the criminal occupation, investigating and speeding up these investigations to determine that it is a criminal occupation and being able to do whatever it is. And this week we've seen it in an occupation that was on the streets of the Hortes, and there's no one who defends the right to housing and vulnerable families, the protection against the denunciations that you've defended or that you've been against this denunciation. Therefore, we begin to distinguish vulnerable populations and criminal occupation. Justice and law already do, you want to be scandalized and stand by people's bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.84.0	Well, good morning again. It has been said, this young man who presents the PP would summarize it as a class privilege defense. First, on the first points in relation to the demand for a tax rebate. Look, there are two ways to have resources to meet the needs of the public. One is retail, and the other is tax-based. We have clear who his preference is, which is to retail public services to protect the class interests of a few, because what we can't do is demand that we lower taxes but then, before a systemic crisis like we're living accentuated by the health crisis, ask the state, ask public administrations, rescue businesses. We are more of rescuing families and not of consolidating the privileges of a few. Four decades of deregulating neoliberalism and a saving market have made it difficult today to ask us or to ask ourselves how much capitalism is supporting democracy. And I say this in reference to the debate that we held here on the right to housing in which you, and he called my attention, said: "Without private property there is no democracy. We think that without pa, without rests, without work there is no democracy, without some material conditions worthy for the majority of the popular classes and workers of our country there is no democracy. And, in the end and in the end, you're defending this neoliberal model that protects a few and leaves a lot of people homeless. On housing, Congresswoman Susanna Segovia explained it very well. What they're doing is criminalizing. Giving a look at what they have approved today, the Members who have approved the need to regulate the question of occupations with a law in the State, many of you or the vast majority of those who have voted in favour of this are owners, are owners of flats and ask them: how many of you have occupied their home or some property, any second residence? Surely the answer is that no, because the fallacy that is built in relation to occupations is this, it's a lie that they want to put in doubt a fundamental right, which is the right to have a 'worthy living'. And, therefore, obviously we will not vote in favour of it. Forty-thousand empty dwellings and they want to make the working families of this country believe that they will take the house through an occupation. There's no greater perversity than generating by...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.85.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.86.0	... to the working class through these fallacies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.87.0	Thank you. And finally, to pronounce on the papers has the new word the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.88.0	Yes, thank you, President. To reiterate the thanks to the groups for the transactions and reviews both accepted as well as not, for the dialog. But he did want to make a reference to Mr. De Dalmases, the group from which we have come to some agreement with some transaction and some draft. He made a speech that had nothing to do with the content of the young man. And he said one thing: "We defend a Catalan republic that will be better. I'm telling him his model is neither republic nor democratic. That's the words, but the facts we had three years ago with the Transitional Law. This is the text where you showed your intention. And I remind you that Article 67 of the same law says that Mr Puigdemont, at that time President of the Generality, could directly appoint the Catalan Supreme Court which was created but was not under his authority. This neither Vladimir Putin nor Vladimir Putin. Therefore, his project has never been of a Catalan democratic republic. It was a populist national authoritarian project, which is a plenipotentiary president who was not submissive to the judiciary or the absolutist kings, to go further. This was his political project which he showed, I insist, not on his sweet words, as he did today, exciting, not, in the text in the joint, with which we presented the days 6 and 7 of September three years ago in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.89.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Lleida's confinement and the lower Segria]] [[302-00231/12]] Let's move to the next point of the order of the day, the dinovè, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the confinement of Lleida and the Lower Segria. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, to expose it has the word of the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.90.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies. Good morning and I hope you enjoy a good day tomorrow. From the Socialist Group we present this motion on the confinement of Lleida and the lower Segria after the inquiry that we did last July. And, first of all, what we would like to see is to show the support of this chamber to the families, to the hospitality sector, to the business sector, as well as to the health professionals and to the different professions of the essential sectors of the Lleida districts at particularly difficult times. So go for them the first thought. Secondly, I would also like to thank the Members of the House, above all, for their reports. As they have proven, we have made an effort to deal with and accept a large part of the issues, only two have been rejected because they distort the initial text very much. But in any case, a thank you, too, to the long conversations that we have had, as well as the possibility of transaction. I also want to make a statement, especially addressed to the company and friends of the groups that support the Government: the Forné MP, the Espigares MP, who support the Government. With the esteem that I have for them – I think that, beyond the debate that we are discussing today and the disagreements, and some who have nothing to do with what we are dealing with, and some who do not have to deal with the confinement of the Segria, because they are already coming from before, and who are also moving into this young man, some things are not working, some things have not been done very well. I'm not telling them they didn't do too well, either. I'm telling you some things we haven't done very well in our communities when you weave or when you strengthen this feeling that they don't listen to us so much or that they don't take us into account or that there's a feeling of understatement. That's what I tried to convey too, for many reasons, not only – as I said – the confinement, that I will not try to explain some, and we have shaped the proposal. What's he gonna do about it? Our young man has three objectives. First of all, fail and regret. Because here, too, it's not all saying that things have gone wrong, but it's also saying who's responsible when something hasn't gone right, when we hear it. And, therefore, it seems that it is a country that when medals are to be laid, so there are people left, but when responsibility for saying this may not have been done well, some things may not have been done well, we saw who had to give accounts. The other objective is to propose better proposals. And the third is to look at what we haven't done quite well over the years. Why did they do things like that in the first place? Why did they make this improvisation change criteria, change information and do not give transparent, clear and consistent information to the citizenry, the mayors or the professionals and the joint citizenry? We are all aware of the great difficulties, that it is impossible to do everything right, that we do not have all the resources, we know perfectly well. But that's no excuse for not giving the size at the most difficult times. That's not an excuse, because then it also causes a lot of serious damage. So, why, too, was it so little time in the third phase or why didn't it act before, as we said? Or why we see it as in certain administrations that wanted to donate their help, so they say they don't. Secondly, we have proposed support measures, which we have already said. Measures, lines of help, more lines of help to businesses and affected families, more tracers, more CAP support, more spaces and professionals to be able to open the schools with guarantees and ensure resources so that the contingency plan of the residents of the large people can pull forward, such as more squads and more protection measures. Let's just hang on to the final part, to the third part of: What have we done wrong? What should we do differently? What's this territorial heaviness we say we have? You will say to me: "You make it up, you cry, you don't know what to say here. So, look, I'll tell you numbers, no opinion, numbers, assumptions of later years – that I've brought you here, that if you want, then I'll leave you there. Una dada, 2010, presuppost en inversions de la Generalitat a les coarques de Lleida : 300_million euros. The last three years, a mid-year of 300_million euros, 290-300. Half of the last five years of public investment in Lleida's districts: 40-50 million euros. Each year the Generalitat no longer invests 250_million euros compared to the one made in 2010 the government of progress, the government of the left. So, something we've done wrong. You'll tell me that we have less money to invest now. Part of it is true, but I would say to them: it is that it has still been more detailed with the money that is now in Lleida's businesses. And so, day, man, do we have to be the territory that systematically lowered the public reversal of the last two years? He gave it years. Not a year, not two years. Therefore, if the last five years we have stopped paying 250_million euros each year, that in five years means a disinvestment of 1,250_million euros. There is still no way to have, but some pact we will have to do, some agreement we will have to build, some pedagogy you will have to do at home – as we do at home – in order to try to define a project of territorial progress in Catalonia and, in particular, for the regions of Lleida, Pirineu and Aran. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, the deputy Daniel Serrano has a turn now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.92.0	Thank you, President, from the seat. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the proposing group on the motion, on its proposal, on what it intends to agree on and on the terms. Because, even if hard terms can be found for the government, which are hard to digest, they are the truth of what happened. And it must be said without any kind of problem: the origin of the strong resurgence that took place in Lleida and in the region of Segrià and that caused a new confinement of the population and the closure of the economic activity had its origin in the disastrous management that was made regarding the temporary ones. A situation, an episode of overcrowding and lack of control that has been repeated in recent years, but especially in this, in the midst of the pandemic, is unforgivable. Hence, because of the gravity of the facts, we share the fact that the health counselor has to be blamed. Even, from our point of view, it could extend perfectly to the Agriculture Adviser as well. Because the problem was rooted not only in the lack of forecasting or planning, but in the decision-making itself and, above all, that it was accompanied by a total lack of information to the mayors of the area, causing serious coordination problems that ultimately affected the citizens, in their day-to-day life. Yes, Counselor, yes, it is and you know it perfectly well. Therefore, obviously, we share that all this chaos and damage must be repaired and, moreover, that it must be provided with the elements that are necessary for an episode like this not to be repeated again. We have tabled a couple of amendments, which we thank the proposing group for its admission, which are aimed, on the one hand, at speeding up the system of aid to the sectors concerned, and on the other, at repairing the serious damage that has occurred to the Lleida brand with the serious problem of incompetence suffered by the Government in the management of the temporary workers and its subsequent consequence, which has caused, I insist, a new confinement and closure of economic activity, with the serious problems it has posed for the citizens of Lleida and the region of Segrià. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.94.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs..., miri, I begin by saying that I am particularly illusory of this motion because it was from my territory, and I am accustomed to motions of salvation and of universities and research, but not territorial. But when you go into detail, sadly, it's a young man who is looking for wear and tear, who is looking to point out guilty, who instead of making proposals to improve, to try to innovate, who is going to be left with some proposals..., who is already getting ahead that we will support those that we have traded, and those that we have not, but that in the end they are left with proposals that are either already made or have already been made. So I think he's losing sight of the fact that we're in front of a global pandemic where all the administrations – all of them, all the political colors and all the countries of the world – have seen each other gobble and that it's not about looking for whites and blacks; it's about finding dull. And, look, she was listening to President Forcadell yesterday, and she's one of the ones who explains to me that I need to be aware of the mistakes, that I need to recognize them, that I need to rule so I can move forward, and rule for everyone. I, miri, of internal and external criticism there was not much and self-criticism either, not only from the territory, but the same councils are also conscious. And what I expect from a government is that I take these things that have not just worked well, that I restore them, that is reinforced. And in this case, so look, this week we were lucky enough to know that Dr. Aegean, the nurse who is a referent in many areas, also joins the government. And have advisors who climb the territory, and so they came, who knew the data there in situ and the opinion of the territory. And, therefore, this part of self-criticism is important, but it is still more important that we also remain aware of all the work that has been done and from all walks of life. And that is why I would particularly like to congratulate the territorial delegates or members of the Government to the territories, of Salut, of Agriculture, of TAF, but also the delegate of the Government ; all those councils that have been in front of and since the month of April that have been making all the protocols and contingency plans in the field of residences, in the municipal area, in the field of hortofructicoles, that it is that they continue to establish the timers and the timers are not the problem; the problem is the poor and the problem is the enterprises with essential services that were not able to break the transmission chains. And all the prediction that was made, but also the reinforcement, and in this sense, the fifty mediators, the twenty-five community agents, the sixty managers Covid, thirty professionals for primary care or forty people for epidemiological surveillance. All these are resources that have come to the Segria to help lower this raven, and with the effort of all of us we have succeeded. Above all, it's the trunk that I want to put with the most relevancy, also in the management of the assemblies, because they were on the first line, with permanent contact with the people, making these contingency plans, but also getting involved in measures, although they didn't have all the tools, with obsolete laws. And especially the leadership of the Republican mayor Miquel Pueyo and the capitality that Lleida has exercised with the rest of the people of Segria. I don't get on the part of the Government of Spain, because it would be a waste that they wouldn't help us in anything, because we're still waiting for the Minister of Agriculture, who in August asked if he was holding onto us something, in August – I suppose you at least know it, when it starts to collate in Segria – with the hundreds of people who arrived in an alarm state where no one could die, in theory, or with the zero-euros that arrived from Spain. In fact, today we've learned that after having the gatherings in little war throughout August definitely won't spoil the Romans. And that cities like Lleida city, that you have ruled forty years and left us with a debt of 175_million, didn't want us or give us a euro. So, in the end, you help them from where they came from? Government of Catalonia: 4_millions announced and already committed for Vice President Aragonès, who is managing the district council; 2_millions for the joints; help the trade and the inn; help the deputies, who have had to give an answer, because you are neither there nor are you expecting. And, look, if the question were decided, we would have a data problem, because at the beginning or at the end of July..., June, more clearly, we were talking about an incidence sometimes higher than Lleida in the rest of the country, but at the peak of July we are talking about Lleida having 460 incidence while the rest of Catalonia was 80. Therefore, I understand that you do not deny me the data, that it is necessary to put an end to this community transmission, to avoid spread, to protect the most vulnerable and, of course, to compensate for that economic effort of those people who see their negotiations closed. But, look, the difference between you and us – and with this I finish, President – is that Esquerra wants to rule to be useful to the people, Esquerra wants to be aware of the things that need to be improved, and there is the self-criticism to do it, but to make things happen. And you stay with the check-in...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.95.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.96.0	...with wear and tear and not being useful to the proposals of the leidatans and the leidatans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Josep Maria Forné. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.98.0	President, deputies and deputies, thank you. We have a motion about the confinement to Lleida, and how there is experience of having lived this confinement, so I would like to start with a small personal reference, while I think that sometimes these personal references have the value they have. And, so, we just give it to him, don't we? On July 4th, it's true that many readers, I too personally, so we lived that day with a certain disorientation, with a certain..., go, this: disorientation of what's going on, what's what we have to do, how we find ourselves. So, it's still going well? No, no, Can I check things? I need to check things. Is that self-criticism? They may be self-critical. Where would we be especially self-critical in this confinement? So, in forms, possibly, more than in content. Undoubtedly, we don't want to go in there, because we think it's... – now ends Congresswoman Espigares of donating some data that would make a situation inevitable that we would have to stop this spread of the pandemic that had occurred in Lleida's Lands effectively. So, we're not going in on the contents. In the forms, yes; I can check them and I can improve them. And that's for sure we're all distinguishing. Therefore, we welcome the fact that there is a motion for a resolution that is going to be critical and to seek to be a proposal, and to review what needs to be reviewed, and in this sense also, as Mr Ordeig said, so we see that there may be this motion and that there may be proposals in this sense. Now, when that's far beyond whether or not we sleep at some time in which we have to take electoral positions, then, then, that serves us to advertise and wear, and instead of helping, in a pandemic context like there is, at this point, where we absolutely diverge and understand that not here, somehow. All the criticism that you want, all the self-criticism that you want, all the measures that you need to review and propose, but to the extent that they are useful for just what is in the content, that this pandemic in the Lands of Lleida that was produced in the months of July, was missing. And, therefore, in this sense, therefore, it will be our position as a group. That is why we do not understand the government's reprimand, in any case, the criticism, the lamentation, but not the reprimand of the government's action, in this context in which there is exceptionality, a deep crisis and a need for a strong response, as it was in that month of July to the lands of Lleida. Abstaining us, we will refrain from everything you refer to recognizing that it is things that should have improved, such as communication, information, etc. And in this, therefore, there will be a position of forbearance, because if this, this criticism, we use it for political wear and not for solving problems in a complicated situation, it is not where we find ourselves. And on the other hand, yes, giving support... I think it will be a young man with most of the points approved, I think it will be. So, give support..., it seems to me that there are – between the sides and the points there are – twenty votes that are already in this young man, but it seems to me that it is in seven that we agree to vote that yes. And, therefore, you see, the majority in which... In this regard, congratulate the easy compromise and negotiation arrangement of the Member Óscar Ordeig, in this motion, and the Socialists Group for the presentation. Giving thanks to all those who gave..., Mrs Espigares referred to territorial directors, government delegates, officials, health personnel, etc., who have been here on the side of the city at these complicated times. To aggravate the difficulties..., the response of Lleida's citizenry at these complicated moments. And to say quite simply that if Catalonia was a ship– if Catalonia was a ship–, the starboard coast – the coast, eh? – and if we were Lleida's land, we would be a ship that would take a fall, because we would be demogically buried. Therefore, we must compensate for this distribution of the country so much that it would cause us to offend, and how we would offend all of us, and do not want to offend, for the lands of Lleida and for Catalonia, we want and we will fight for the best. And that's why they put us in all that you need in this case in favor of Lleida's Lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.100.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, I start, as always, from the first Ple that we held here in March, with confinement, giving thanks, as it cannot otherwise be, to the workers of the health system and to all the essential workers that have made possible, therefore, life, and in this case, as we speak today specifically of Lleida, life to Lleida. But, well, I've heard myself say many times, only with gratitude, so the workers won't live. And it's obvious, I don't think there's any doubt, less a deputy who's not worthy to recognize it, that things haven't done well in Catalonia, and less yet in Lleida. I've explained to them too. I think you keep it sometimes. I mean, the one who followed Lleida's news knows. I went out the one you said late in the councilhouse practically on the 8th of the evening, where the councilwoman denied what was going on to Lleida. You denied it, looking at me in the eyes, he said late to the council. The sale of you is moving to Lleida and again denying before the journalists what was happening to Lleida. You're issuing a press release, which your advice also made it easier for the MPs, where you said something different from what happened at the end of 24 hours. So I think that, really, denying what happened to Lleida... well, it's undeniable, it's that everyone knows it and clearly the citizenry knows it. And, therefore, I don't want to go into detail on this issue. I want to go on topical issues. Today Lleida's press begins with the cover announcing and warning us that there are five hundred teachers – five hundred teachers – who are already low. The college and the situation hasn't started yet, so it's already this: five hundred low school teachers. Today the press explains that there are again, as always, pairs and seas complaining that they do not have room for their children in their barrels, in their areas of proximity. Today we know that yesterday night a gentleman lost a tooth in a battle at Camp Elisis. We also know today that we're already paying attention to Sucs because he's insecure in the street. We also know today that the eyes are complaining about the brutishness in Lleida. Well, we also know there's trouble knowing who's going to pay extra health care for school breaks. Well, deputies and deputies of Lleida, I don't know if it doesn't embarrass you, but Lleida, the province, Lleida city is well connected. MPs and MPs, the train from the set has disappeared, there is no train arriving before a quarter of a god to the city of Barcelona. Does that sound good to you? We can't talk about this, can we? MPs and MPs, take the car as an alternative, which is what we have to do a lot; the highway, when there is no accident, is full of holes. This is Lleida and we have an airport run by the Generality that served, served, because people came to skiing in Andorra; served, because now it won't even serve for that. Yes, deputies and deputies, this government has forgotten. Of the health issues, well, I insist again: thank you and thank you, but with thanks there is not enough. With the inn, we've already seen who you are and what's coming. So, Government of the Generality, what do you think you're doing? How many motions for resolutions have we approved here, Members and Members for Lleida? Most of them, but all of them are inconclusive. And I was thinking about this, Congressman Ordeig, because I remember at the 17th an extensive, large, long, motion that presented Ciutadans, which I had the honor of defending in this faristol, full, sketches of points, consensual at that time with the Congressman Battle, which was the one that represented the independenceist formation, with you, with Congresswoman Xandri, of the People's Party. And there we negotiated many points that continue today, today, added with the Covid, without being solved for Lleida. You come to this point, I listen to you and I think, what do we do? You and I can continue to complain here, which is later than before. Can you complain to us that Lleida is underprivileged, with the end of the iron? Yeah, that's right, this vessel is obviously unbalanced. What can we do, Mr. Ordeig? What can we do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? You know that nationalism earns thanks to Lleida, thanks to the fact that the votes are lost, for sure, that you did not have to consolidate a _second deputy, that Ciutadans did not have to consolidate the fourth deputy or that the People's Party lost them and Mrs Xandri stayed away. Can't we offer a different political project, which we have in common with common objectives, as we can do with this young man today? But if it's that we can come to agreements to really dignify, in this case, also Lleida, that's what we're talking about and focus the debate on. I think we can make these alliances. Let us agree on a lot of issues, let us agree every day to the Health Committee, where I carry you. Today we would agree with these transactions. If we want to change Lleida, this will begin by changing the Government of the Generality. This will change that we all give up positions and join together. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.102.0	Good morning. Well, I don't know about Lleidatan and, therefore, I am relieved to respond to some statements made so far about nationalism Lleidatà, which I have not just heard, and I prefer to talk about policies for public services, for citizens, overall for Catalonia and also for the people of Lleida, that we have the same class problems and the same country problems. Overall, we will approve this motion because we agree with the general proposals that are made, from more resources for primary care, more tracers, resources for epidemiological surveillance, more resources to guarantee schooling in conditions, to carry out a plan of contingency of the residences, protection, also for the territorial elements that refer to the municipality of Segria, to allocate resources to deal with the economic and social effects external to Lleida's comarques, for this confinement or double appropriate confinement, Mossos' reinforcement, of transparency of the reasons that led to dictate this specific confinement of the territory and to compensate that the territory continues with less inversion during the later years. Among other things, it may be that this lack of reversal one of the things that has been touched, like the rest of the country, is the public health system and, therefore, less inversion, even though the rest of the territory still makes the public health system in Segria more affected, and this most affected system is what has had to be faced and is facing the crisis of the Covid itself now. And that's not a solution with a new reinforcement hospital, counselor, because we're talking basically about detail that has particularly affected primary care; a primary care that doesn't only affect the territory of Segria, not just Lleida's districts, but all Catalonia, but especially the territories and rural populations. Because the details in the first place to rural populations and the working conditions of the professionals in the first place mean that, since the last years, a lot of professional costs for primary care in rural populations and, therefore, we have a great lack of professionals in primary care, we have it, in rural populations. And it's this detailed or more tense primary that is facing the crisis in these communities of communities like Segria. We have warned this for some time now: there are two specific circumstances in the Segria that should be addressed well. One, the precarious work, health care and housing of temporary workers, would be a difficult problem for a crisis like a pandemic and so it has been. There have been victims of the pandemic and there are deficiencies that have not been dealt with in this health crisis and that we have the feeling that we will still be flushing for a while if it is this very Generality that must give it an answer, because it has not done so on multiple occasions as we have asked. There is also another specificity to the Segria respect the possible incidence of the pandemic: the agro-food industries, which have often been a focus of infection because they are in intense work and at low temperatures and can therefore be a more easily spread focus of a virus like this. We warned, and that was it, and there was no inspection work to avoid it. Therefore, we insist on messages that have already been approved in this Parliament: more inspection, more demand and also demanded from the territories and later, in July, with a motion to the Lleida Parliament based on a proposal from our partners in the territories. I end up with two extreme elements of the young man, including a reprobation of the councilwoman. Look, honestly, we certainly don't believe that this is for the management, that it hasn't been good, from Lleida's confinement, that the councilwoman must fail, but for many more elements. There are many doubts about, therefore, the slowness in having plans to reboot, the escandol of the failure with the topic of Railway and of which it has been mandated since the Parliament, the primary weakened during all this time... We would not put the wording that you have put down, but go, we would also approve this point of reproach. And, in turn, explain, even if we approve the rest of the motion, we will abstain at a point that they have added, the 1st, from a Ciutadans slogan that includes a statement that we agree on, that it is the Mosso d'Esquadra that must guarantee the safety of the lives, and not the Veinal patrols. We agree, but we are dealing with it at the same time as we are talking about occupation issues, and, as you know perfectly well, our parliamentary group is not agreed, we do not agree with you that the occupation has a specifically police or basically police solution, and therefore at this point we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, to position himself has the word the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.104.0	Explain the meaning of our votes. First of all, explain that we will vote in favour of Point 1, which is reprobation of the Government, because of lack of coordination and lack of information, so we characterized it at the time, and so we lived it ourselves. It also explains that we will vote in favour of a good part of the joint motion, basically those concrete measures that can imply a social response to the crisis of the Covid-19. First, to increase epidemiological vigilance, we think it's a good thing. One_second: reinforcing the CAPs, the primary care centers; for us it is another question for where the answer goes. Or in the third place, as is the case in the youth: educational resources, even though we have been more esteemed than the reference has been to public education, but we will vote in favour. And of all those who signify a fulfillment to give social response to the crisis of the Covid-19, and which also signifies how it fits into which it lived to the Segrià. We will not vote in favour, and we have made it clear that we will vote against it, so that for us it does not even keep up with what must be a response to the crisis of the Covid-19, and that it is simply the repressive, the police and the military. Look, first of all, you can go and see what's said to the same young lady, who has a clear reference to the illegal occupation with a shoemaker, which you call the "illegal occupation." And we give them all the respect, but it seems to me that there are parliamentary groups that are turning into the commercials of private security companies, and we do this... obviously we will not play commercials and amplify a reality that has a concrete expression in percentage as if it were generalized. We're not going to participate in being with the Spanish army's shoemaker either. We have to say, of course, that we have read four or five times the contents and what they are expressing to us seems to be practically the contrary that may be the one they want, that there is a demand for more inversion so that the army does not come, the literal one that there is, but we will not vote against it for this literal one, that we can, after all, vote for it, but what we show is that you are with a shoemaker a premise that we do not share, that it is the need for the army to be able to respond to the social crisis caused by Covid-19. And on the other hand, we will not vote in favour of and vote against what it means to see that in order to develop the Process we need more movement from the squad. For us the answer does not come from the hand of more squadrons, but from more social policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. And in later term, to pronounce on the papers presented has a turn again Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.106.0	Very quick. This is a proposal that has points, seven proposals, two points of criticism – seven proposals, two points of criticism. Mr Soler, Provided, excellent interventions that totally coincide. We don't agree with everything, but we do agree that, listen, there are things that have been done better, things that have been done worse and that you need to look for a roadway or a ship that doesn't sink. We need a balanced country, it's obvious, and at these times we're unbalanced at forced marches. I can only agree with Mrs Ribas with one aspect, and, listen, it is that we have a demographic problem of public investment that what they are doing, more so, if we continue with the current steps – passes to Europe, passes to Spain, passes to Catalonia – it is that we are accumulating wealth and population and public investment in large metropolitan areas. Something we'll have to do. And this builds opportunities for some less opportunities for others or territories more than others. Therefore, we have a problem, a social problem, a class problem, but we also have a territorial problem. So, listen, we've been warning, there's fewer moves, there's less teachers, there's less teachers, there's less teachers, there's less inversion, so, all this creates a problem when we have a pandemic or when anything else happens, like CAPs. And, Mrs Espigares, I don't understand it; I say to you, listen, let us defend the territory together, and I am only lacking that someone from the territory should come to me to say, "Listen, no, you, demagogic and other things. He says to me, "We've made a reversal, haven't we? I don't know how much. Listen, the inn lost millions of euros every day of confinement, and I'm telling you, 250_million euros a year, 250_million euros a year, and you're saying, "No, 3_millions. Three million? Well, listen. Responsibility for the assembly. I haven't been critical of Lleida's meeting at this time, but I've been critical of things here. As in Madrid it has a centralist attitude many times and little knowledge of reality, and they have to do pedagogy, as in Brussels, but also in Barcelona, that I do not know if there is more centralist and distorted vision of reality. So, enjoying that you see the Diada, good Diada, but we also try to build a balanced Catalonia, just for everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.107.0	Congressman, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.108.0	...and that everyone understands the other and the difference that makes us better. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.109.0	Thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy]] [[302-00233/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, point 20, which is the Movement following the government's inquiry into industrial policy. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to defend it has the word of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.110.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs. I thought we'd meet the new Business and Coneixement advisor, but I see he hasn't come. In any case, send him greetings from here. Whenever I speak about industry, the first part of the intervention is all that has happened to the industry, the most uplifting and most pressing cases that we are seeing from the area's airfields, and this time is no exception. It has already begun to be, in fact, the rule that every time we put in an inquiry and spend a week, they spend two weeks or a month, when we come here we have to add more cases in this constant exhaustion of industrial tanks that the country has seen. In this case mainly focused on the Penedès, we have several cases of industrial closure that seem to us worrying force. The Saint-Gobain group, which has no lost, which manufactures automotive glass, is a factory of automotive glass components and that its problem is that the useful life of the furnace falls on it in a year or two and the company is refusing to renew it, with which we again have a tank that is not only for economic reasons, but because the company is refusing to renew its productive capital. Or the Robert Bosch group, which also have no economic problems and which seems to have decided that there is a recast is to shift production to Eastern Europe. Not to mention the Alfisa group which, in fact, is double-dramatic, because while he is focusing on ERTO and aid policies for pandemic-derived tanks, what he has decided directly is to disappear and does not pay or payroll, does not pay suppliers, does not pay the ship's logger, does not pay the sub-administrations, and has the workers left out of God's hand. And I believe that all these decisions that we see, most of which are corporate and not economic, are business decisions to relocate productions outside Catalonia or that are in conflict with various automotive companies: Renault, Nissan, etc. What they reveal is a logic of foundations that we cannot assume with the country, which is that by the norm of consummate facts we assume that freedom of enterprise is a right that is outside the democratic constitutional order. Until now, freedom of enterprise was a freedom that was framed in a series of rights and obligations. One had a company but it had to guarantee the job security of its workers, it had to guarantee the continuity of its production, that the workers were working, and it could not close the production like that without economic motii of funds, without the company having failed, etc. Not now, now a company has and decides – have rejected direct and indirect subsidies from public administrations, having the benefits of their staff's work – that one day leave and goodbye. We have built a society where we have put a right – the right to leave this society without giving explanations – over the rest of the rights. And we can see it in these groups, we can see it in Nissan's decision. And before all these cases what we need are governments that intervene in these labor conflicts and that require companies social responsibility. This country is not a field that can where a good is a nurse of the work of the citizenry of Catalonia, she is a nurse of the public subsidies in this country – to help the industry – and when I want to play the two and who is left here, so bad luck. No, we need governments to intervene and defend the right to work in this country. Because if you don't, what we're going to have is a constant loss of product texture in Catalonia. And that's what I wanted to put on a manifesto even though it doesn't go to court because I think it's important. We have the second case. I'm starting the show for the end, which is Nissan's case. We consider that Nissan's staff, his workers and his union representatives have done their job. They have secured the company to negotiate, they have postponed the closure and this gives the public administrations scope to plan a reindustrialisation plan for the sector. And, therefore, what we ask for and what we demand is that the Government of Catalonia and the rest of the public administrations do their job to ensure the continuity of production in Catalonia. And last but not least, and in a more generic way to industry in Catalonia, what we propose are basically two things. This 2021 requires a reactivation plan for the industry, a plan that studies which productive sectors have problems to reactivate and which has the necessary assistance and interventions to ensure the continuity of the occupation and the continuity of the work. And at the same time we need an industrial plan that guarantees the productive energy transition and the industrial revolution of our industry in order not to lose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.111.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.112.0	...woven product. And that's where we put you in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.113.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented, he has the word in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republic of Mr Alfons Montserrat. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. First of all, I would like to thank Congressman Lucas Ferro for the pre-position and the position of the motion he has presented, as well as his willingness or willingness to accept the points we have raised. Well, our country has a strong industrial vocation and the fact is that this is a backbone of our economy. There is 20,7_percent of the gross value added, which means that it is more than the state or the euro area. It is a diversified sector, a major import of chemicals, pharmaceuticals or refineries, and it is an innovative sector. A 6.08_percent of total employment does so in high-tech or middle-high-tech industries. This is a higher percentage than the state of France or Italy and which, at this time, has to face us against the digital revolution and the imperative need to adapt its practices to combat climate change. This week – and Congressman Lucas Ferro also pointed out – we have had disturbing news. To the already announced tank of Saint-Gobain there is the possibility to add-there the tank of Bosch, a possibility that wants eight hundred workers and workers of the Penedès will be affected, and that is why from here we also send our support to the workers who are struggling at these times to keep their places of work. And let us take the opportunity to remember that talking about the challenges of industry is not just talking about solving problems but also about rebalancing power relations between capital and work. That is why we reiterate that the Government of the State, as at the time it has already spoken to Esquerra or Bildu, repeals labour reform. Nissan, Saint-Gobain, Bosch are a living proof of the difficulties of the industry in these times of pandemic and globalization, and the Republican Group are of the criteria, eh? , that this post-pandemic Catalonia has to continue to feel an industrial Catalonia, but, yes, a 21st century industry incardinated in a 21st century economy, huh? , which competes in added value and not in price, based on knowledge and not on cheap labour, a dynamic, innovative, sustainable industry, both economically and environmentally. And this is a project that goes beyond games and acronyms, huh? , which should be shared, which should be shared by a wide layer of the product texture. And for these reasons, such as the National Industrial Pact, they are essential to chart this shared future. And that's why we celebrate, huh? , which takes its extension over time and we will vote for it; this is precisely the intention of the Government, as is also the fact that it is working because this industrial planning fits into the planning of the energy transition and because it also guarantees a real decarbonization schedule. We need to take advantage of any new planning to be more demanding than ever and take real steps of transformation. The same could be said for what it does to residue, even further on and requiring that the new law of planned residue should have zero residue. On the Catalan Energy Agency, from Esquerra we have always insisted that it must be an important tool of governance and an instrument that leads a new energy model, a renewable cent_per_cent, a democratic cent_per_cent and a zero kilometre, and above all with the participation of the territory. And it's mediating the dialog, the negotiation and the concertation as they are facing and facing the current and future challenges of the Catalan industry. This was done in time to address the consequences of Nissan's decision to shut down its plants in the Free Zone, and not only in the rapid elaboration and deployment of the Support Plate to industry and mobility but also in the mediation and leadership of the Generality, with the great involvement of Councillor El Homrani and Councillor Chacón, so as to extend Nissan's presence until 2021 and promote a work commission that is already beginning to give its fruits to the candidacy of a plant of electric boats on the land where Nissan was, huh? Concertation requires clear and consistent public leadership, no change, no unnecessary choking, huh? And also, don't be fooled, you also need a state that doesn't play against you. In this respect, the Department of Economics, together with AQR-Lab, quantifyes the loss of Catalan GDP at 9.8 per cent due to the lack of infrastructure and investment in the State. In short, with this new industrial planning, which is unsustainable, towards a circular economy, innovative, technologically advanced and global vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jordi Munell has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.116.0	Thank you, President. Benvolut Counsellor, congratulated on the appointment. Nice work. Well, in this case we're joining, before we get into the seat, and as if Congressman Ferro has also made a point, we're joining and giving support, so, to the workers, workers who are defending their jobs at these times, and some of these have already met with some of our representatives, huh? And, therefore, all the support. And to regret that this is not a thing, therefore, of this punctual moment but that, if we remember, in the months and years before, therefore, they have reproduced facts like these, eh? Remember Delphi Sant Cugat the General Cable of Manlleu, huh? Therefore, industrial policy always requires, therefore, a living, active policy and, as has already been said, that the Government, and in this case also the Parliament, remain the object of debate and that the Government can lead industrial policies. But to do that, we also need competitions, full competitions, huh? , and many times we find ourselves, so – it has been said before, in another youth – that we have industrial skills, but it turns out that the State Public Employment Service depends on the State, huh? We do have business skills, but it turns out that when we want to make a proposal here to change the rules and laws of the autonomies, we depend on the policies of the State, huh? And, therefore, we are not a state, we are not a country with full competition and, therefore, many times it is difficult to make a policy full of economic activation or of business or economic policies. In any case, this young man today could also say that he is a timely young man – he does not say "opportunistic" but "appropriate" – because today, just today, the executive committee of the National Pact for Industry is meeting on 10 September. And, therefore, some of the things that the group is proposing to us with this motion, in fact, as they say, I don't know if we have to vote because we're not already doing it, or we have to vote because we're already doing it. In any case, today he has gathered the gods of the morning with the Director General of Industry, and, therefore, some of the things that are asked, as we say, are already a fan, right? One is to present a proposal for an action, say, the immediate work plan for the year 2021, in order to face the effects, from an industrial and business point of view of the Covid. And, on the other hand, to lay the groundwork for the 2021-long elaboration of what should be the second phase or second version of the National Pact for Industry, which here was supposed to last until 2030, and which, in any case, we, and on behalf of the Government and the groups that we support the Government, have the task of defending that the executive committee itself which has the power, therefore, to decide whether they will be agreements or agreements, therefore, of five or two years' duration, as proposed here. But in any case, with the will to demonstrate unity of action with economic and industrial activation policies, so, with the ideas that we have presented and have accepted, so we will vote that yes in the joint motion and, therefore... In fact, today, as we say, this first step has already been announced, some proposals to deal with 2021, and the initial elaboration of a subsequent pact, huh? , for the next five, six or ten years, or to what you decide the executive commission, which is why you have the power, therefore, to work there. In any case, two more comments. Here, in point 2.3, we ask to develop the 3D printing hub. We'd like it if, even if it's written like this, the vision was to develop or not to materialize only in the 3D sector, but to leave open to all that is digital innovation, policies... We understand that the vision is this, huh? Because it's obviously important 3D, but it's also all about 5G applications, for example, or obviously all that robotics is, isn't it? So, a little, in general, industry 4.0, what do we say, and don't focus it on a concrete aspect like that, huh? Therefore, in this sense, we will give support to the movement, with this element. It was also asked to extend wideband access to all Catalan territories. Actually, at these moments it's happening, too. The compromise is already announced to reach all the capitals of the region by the end of the disembarkation of this 2020. In fact, an extraordinary execution was approved in April. And this last minute also allows me, therefore, to say in this National Pact for Industry what I also said at the time of the previous Pact. We'll find it missing people, we'll find it missing representatives of the State. Representatives of the State why? Home, not because of the groups that we're giving support to the government we like, but because they have skills that we don't have, huh? in national newspapers, in AENA airports, in Ports del Estado, in electricity tariffs, the National Electricity Commission or, for example, the National Telecommunications Commission. There are key strategic skills for the development of industry and the business that we do not have, but at the time of debate and proposals for action in a national pact all these representatives are not, they did not come to the meetings. And for that reason, we're going to miss it. Now that you also have the skills to rule in Madrid, we would also like these skills, which are not yet completely independent and which are at these times in the hands of the State, so we also have them. And let's not just say it ourselves, say the National Work Promotion in the reports he submitted this week; say it the Council of Cambres de Catalunya; say it a lot of people. And, therefore, we would be pleased that in this next national pact, therefore, those who were not there were and, in any case, we would be pleased to have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.117.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.118.0	...full competence to do so from Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.119.0	Thank you. [[Some applause.]] On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Martí Pachamé has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.120.0	Counselor, deputies, deputies. We are dealing with another gen eral, general motion, which is general enough so that we cannot go into excessive detail, and which prevents a greater critical burden than that of being an inconsequential motion, and which, despite this, the Government has tried to laminate by trying to impose time limits far enough away so that, if this motion is approved, they do not have an objective significance either. This motion calls for the promotion of various industrial pacts, one for reactivation and another for the renewal of the current National Pact for Industry. It also calls for the implementation of commitments under the current existing pact, with particular emphasis on those such as the energy transition, the circular economy and industry 4.0. By the way, remind them that it would be good for them to recognize themselves as Government and not opposition. They are government in Madrid, they are government in Barcelona and here they help to draw up budgets. By the way, that was a good time to ask for something you're already asking for. For example, the Institut Català d'Energia has been standing by its own website since January 2017; there were more important things to do at the time. Point 4 calls for the creation of territorial pacts with the participation of all the administrations and finally guarantee the budgetary sufficiency for the implementation of the Plan of support to the automotive industry, in particular the agreements to carry out the reindustrialization of the Nissan centres in Catalonia. As I have already said, it is difficult not to agree with these points. Its degree of indecretion and lack of detail makes it very complicated precisely not to agree. How not to agree to a pact for reactivation to minimize the effects of the Covid-19 crisis or to promote the renewal of the PNI by focusing on the axes that reality has imposed as most necessary: energy transition, circular economy or industry 4.0. We also agree to seek the maximum possible consensus among all the administrations involved in the development of industrial policy. As we also agree to focus on budgetary sufficiency to give a future alternative to the car sector and the reindustrialisation of the Nissan centres. Where we probably don't agree is how those covenants or plans are applied, and we ventured it since what we know about their actions doesn't inspire enough confidence. When on the one hand they talk about supporting the industry, but on the other hand we see the actions of their municipal leaders in the city of Barcelona, with demonstrations and actions that put many jobs at risk, the mobility of all citizens or directly the industrial sectors that provide a greater number of jobs, such as that of the car or the tourist, it is normal that there are serious doubts about the model that they want to develop in our community. When they talk about widespread tax increases or nationalizations, when they show little or no respect for citizens' property rights, it is incompatible to want to encourage investment by encouraging occupation. The administrations, in addition to plans – and there are enough – must allow companies to have the necessary elements to develop their business. That is achieved by conveying confidence and leadership, and we all know that the present Government does not transmit either. The change of title in the company council just at a time as delicate as the current one conveys an important message of transitivity aggravated by the profile of the substitute councillor. If we really want to minimize the impact of the crisis on our industry, the Government is not working on it. The Government is interested in other issues and takes note of this by the entrepreneur. For our group, far from the vague and general ideas of this motion, the industrial impulse must be accompanied by three key elements. Leadership: Catalonia must take the lead again in Spanish industry; for this it must retransmit legal certainty and institutional stability in the long term. Innovation: it is the responsibility of the public authorities to continue to encourage investment in innovation and to provide all the support from the administration; at least 2_per_cent of GDP must be earmarked for R & D+i in order to be able to put us at the forefront of Spanish and European industrial development. Legislative and fiscal simplification: order must be placed in the overlapping of rules and taxes in recent years. On the basis of this, among other measures, from Citizens we propose the following: to implement a package of measures aimed at the sectors most affected by the pandemic, in particular a plan of aid aimed at improving the liquidity of self-employed people, businesses, SMEs and industrial enterprises; aid aimed at commercial and craft SMEs and associations of traders to undertake the digitisation of their procedures and direct subsidies for street sales; a specific plan for automotive; incentives for high-tech industrial sectors; investment, internationalisation and foreign trade policy impulses which assume the objectives of attracting industrial productive investment in our territory, and facilitate the penetration of Catalan production into external markets; revision and reduction of certain taxes and taxes; reduction of freight costs; and the promotion of an energy transaction that guarantees competitive energy without increasing costs for industrial consumers. Until there is at the head of this community a political party that transmits the guarantees of continuity and sufficient security, the plans and pacts will be water of drunkards. That's right, MasterChef level, but drunk at the end and at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.122.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the current pandemic that we are patenting, that at first, and today, it is still a health crisis that has already been a social and economic crisis, from which we still do not know its depth... What we do know is that Catalonia has been suffering from a sustained industrial crisis for some time now. They could talk about companies that have shut down or are in a crisis situation: Autoliv, General Cable, Nissan, Acciona, Iberpotash, Saint-Gobain, Bosch, Nobel, Ercros... We are in front of a sustained drain. Then they have a higher degree of uncertainty. If the companies have a high degree of uncertainty, the workers and the workers will be in the same situation, the uncertainty of staying unworkable. It's a drama for the country, if we're not able to reverse this trend. I'm sure we agree with the new company and knowledge advisor that Catalonia can't afford to lose its industrial fabric. It also forms part of the idiosyncrasy of the country's economy, and that is why economic reactivation policies are needed to reactivate the country at the same time socially, and to make reactivation policies also means that we need presuppostarial resources, presuppostarial resources that in the current presupposition the vice president Aragonès has « told the company council. I will only place them: in the guany assumption, we have fewer economic resources and more constant than at the exit from the previous crisis, which is practically riding with this. It seems that it is not a priority, from our point of view, of the Government of Catalonia, to reactivate the country industrially. Nor is it, from our perspective, one of the strategic axes of the European Union, of the Government of Spain, which is the economic and energy transition, which will make sense, and it should already be, one of the economic vectors of the future. 'Cause, look, I'm gonna shoot all the folds a lot around this one. Now, that's a little bit of work. In the field of energy transition, Catalonia is at the Cua d'Espanya, incorporating electrical generation capacity from renewable energy sources, and after listening to some delegate of the Government of the Generality in some territories, explains everything. But, look, I'll give you some dice. According to the sources of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Democratic Repte, this year they have connected to the electric grid – finals of August – 2,277 megawatts of new electrical generation capacity from renewable sources. Do you know how much Catalonia has connected to solar photovoltaic energy, to set an example? 1.84 megawatts. If we compare them to Extremadura, which is the community that has incorporated the most megawatts, which are 610, we are years away from light. If we add the built-in installations to the self-consumption system, we can push this xifra to practically 22 megawatts, very far from the country's needs. And Catalonia has not yet connected a megawatt of new wind power to the grid. Yes, some delegate is encouraging the mayors to reject wind energy in their territories. From the year 2021 to the year 2030, if we want to complete the objectives that we ourselves have set ourselves, we should be around 50 per cent by the year 2030 in providing from the point of view of the electrical demand that this comes from renewable sources of energy. We need 10,000 megawatts, 6,000 in photovoltaics, 4,000 in wind. The government must be proactive, from the point of view of energy transition policies. Even so, the internal resistance of the government to these issues and to the division of the government must be strengthened. Of circular economy, many plans but few concrete measures. We will vote in favour of the motion, as Mr Ferro knows, but I am saying this: with the will shown so far for the government to respect the implementation of the proposals adopted by this Parliament, we have little hope that these policies will be activated. From our point of view, we need and will not tire of saying, elections, a new government that gives a new energy to the country and that ultimately has a good government to activate all this type of policies, with which we absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.124.0	In the later period we have spoken of the force often on industrial policy, and it is very good, it is necessary, but while we are talking, talking and talking about the businesses in this country have been closing, closing and closing, and thousands of workers see how they lose their work and, therefore, their way of living from an economic point of view. This is the reality, which, moreover, will be sadly deeper the late present. Yesterday we had the visit to the Parliament of Catalonia of the workers and the workers of Saint-Gobain. Saint-Gobain, a company that creates a collegiate association, that has benefits, from an economic point of view, that has no cause, from a point of view of production and organization to present a collegiate association, but that benefits that the state government of the PSOE and the United Nations We can keep in force the labor reform and, therefore, thirty days of consultation period, tension for the workers and the workers, and it allows to collide the workers unilaterally. We are very clear about Saint-Gobain, there is only one alternative, which is the continuation of the business activity, the maintenance of work places and, therefore, the maintenance which means that Saint-Gobain is not close and future for the plant. With regard to the motion that has been put to us by the Group of Catalonia in Commu Pueblo, we will vote mostly in favour of the majority of points, but we must say that there will be two points, the 3rd and the 2nd, which we will abstain. On point 3 because, in relation to the pact for the industry transferred to the territorial level, we are not against it, we can be an alternative, but if we do not land more what we will do at the territorial level in relation to this pact, obviously we cannot vote in favour. And we have a little bit the same in relation to the first part of point 2, above all because they refer to Agenda Europe 20-30 – we are talking about the European Union – and we do not share either the projects of the European Union from an industrial point of view or what Agenda 20-30 means at a minimum from the point of view and even from the point of view of economic transition, which is just how little it talks about whether or not industrial policy effects. Yes, we do not want to forget that the European Union was responsible for the four industrial monocultures that have condemned us to our country. Recordin, motor vehicle. Recordin, for another gang, agri-food. For another band, tourism. And construction. And that causes us to have what we have right now in this country. Finally, we also want to convey another idea that we consider equally important: the governments of the past fifty years have not had a proper and public industrial policy, because they consider that it must be the companies that do it. We do bet clearly on industrial diversification, a policy of economic transition, productive sovereignty and also that public power, through public enterprises, is an alternative before the closures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.126.0	Thank you, President, Councillor... Beyond the current situation, it is to say, beyond the circumstances for which Nissan, Saint Gobain, Bosch, Alfisa..., and beyond even the situation that we find ourselves in the current fruit of the pandemic, the fruit of the health crisis, already months ago, years that worry us about the evolution of the industrial sector in Catalonia. In fact, we have had the opportunity to hold various inquiries with its predecessor about what was the evolution of the industrial sector. We have seen in the past few years that, while there was a growth mark of the economy, the growth of the industry was much more sustained than the growth mark of the economy and, even so, we arrive at a point, let's say, limit, in the year 2019, in which the contribution of the industrial sector to GDP is denied, in a growth mark and, moreover, the industrial occupation recedes in a mark also of job creation, right? Therefore, there is a problem with the industry and it is necessary to address it, not only when the problems are present, but when we see that the trend is not positive. And, in this sense, we have the fortune to have a very good tool, a tool of consensus among social workers, universities, professional colleges, political parties..., which is the Pact for Industry. But the Pact for Industry has suffered from an obvious problem, which is that it has not had any presupposition. He did have a presupposition in the same pact, but he did not have a presupposition drawn up by a government to deal with the actions provided for in the Pact for Industry. It was approved when the assumptions of 2017 were already approved and, in the assumptions of 2020, the first ones that have ever been approved by the Pact for Industry – already said another Member – for example, the Industry Support Programme, in accounts of growing in agreement with this pact for industry, back off, right? Therefore, from this point of view, and in the current circumstances, obviously, two types of pacts are needed: a short term, immediately, to promote the recovery of industry, and a _second, the renewal of the Pact for Industry, which ends in force this 2020. And, therefore, from this point of view, we will support it. To the only aspects that we will not support the motion that presents us Catalonia in Comú We can be those that make reference to the change of the Catalan Institute of Energy, of the Agency of Residus, of the Law of Transition, because the authors of "we must take advantage of the pandemic because the automotive sector is not reactive, according to which aspects we prefer not to make them trust and see the small letter. And in this sense, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Ferro has a two-minute turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.128.0	He used to take advantage of it to greet the counselor, but he left again. I don't know what's got into him with me, but we don't agree. Well, in any case, thank the groups that have given us reviews, the presentation of the reviews and we could have had a dialogue. I think they were all consumables. And I think we have a number of challenges ahead, and the main thing is that we have a 2021 year ahead that must or must be the year of the productive revival in Catalonia. And that will require a very important effort and momentum and public leadership in our country. Therefore, this pact for productive recovery will be central to seeing how we build recovery in our country. And the second is that, by the time we're done, we've got times that's too many years that we don't take, that we don't take seriously. This government – and Congressman Terrades pointed this out – and succeeding governments have been a decade since they have practically renounced leading policies that are strategic and future in our country. Because the doubt is not whether there will be an ecological transition or no ecological transition of our economy, it is whether we guarantee an ecological transition that does not break our society or unpack our product model. The same with the circular economy or with the digitalization of the industry. These processes will donate. And, therefore, the challenge is to have an ambitious government that is able to lead them by guaranteeing occupation, ensuring production and ensuring social integration in our country. And that's what we've been missing for the past two years, and we believe that a national pact linked to two years and linked to European targets allows us to disconnect it from the constant electoral cycles we've experienced in Catalonia and to be able to work on ambitious and strategic goals for our industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Comy words with the deputy of Carles Castillo Rosique]] And before I suspend the session this afternoon, I'll give the word to Congressman Carles Castillo, who asked me for a few minutes to be able to pick up from the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.130.0	"Many good to everyone, all to everyone. Forgive me for changing your theme and stealing two, three minutes as much. But he wanted to take me. Mainly, to give thanks, to give thanks to all the territories that acquit us when we travel to the territories, to the local administrations, to the trade unions of Mossos, Bombers, of local police, of forest guards, of agents – sure that I leave some – have worked magnificently. Thank you to the Workers and Workers of Parliament for making it easy for us to do our job. Thanks to the barbers and the barbers, talking to the idiot I'm talking about. Thank you, fellow Members and Members, for teaching me and for after all and every one of you, when we talked: I've always taken something. Thanks to the Socialist Parliamentary Group companies for your patience sometimes with me and thanks to the PSC for having given me everything and for having given me absolutely everything. It has been an honor to work in this Parliament with you. It has been an honor above all to the Commission of the Interior; the committee of the tempts, which we have been working for two years; the committee of Iqoxe, which I leave, therefore, a little in the middle, and it is of the things that it is harder for me to know. And I'd just like to ask you one last thing, end one last thing, which is, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to politics, rebel against the trenches and put in value and practice empathy, and empathy goes both ways: from one end to another and from one end to another, it doesn't just go one way, it goes both ways, and it's to be useful to the citizenry. And more. Behave yourself, I'll follow you on TV. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. We'll find him missing. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.132.0	Let's resume the session... [[Question to the Government on the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector]] [[300-00294/12]] ... on the order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector, an question presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose her, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.133.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...and less for his government in agreement with the president's action, which already seems to know when he doesn't know what to change the change that has to happen to the head of the Department of Culture. Five advisors or advisors in four years is a difficult memory to overcome, bearing in mind that this composition of governance has been governing for five years. Vila, Puig, Borràs, Vilallonga, and now you: five people in four years to lead the Department of Culture and the country's cultural policies. This is how the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left takes into account the culture of this country. While the sector throughout this stage has asked for resources, leadership, risky proposals, funding and help, the government has dedicated itself to completing its Panini collection of strands playing chrome here and there to keep its balances occupied. You are more concerned to place your people in control areas than to lead a response for the cultural sector, which has been in need for years. And I'm not saying, she said the councilwoman came out to the Catalan public radio a few days ago. The direction derived from the culture of our country has only been a beacon: the language and cultural expressions of more traditional and popular. With this we do not say that it is not to be promoted, but it cannot be the only priority line, more focused on the threads of rataphy than on pushing and accompanying a sector in which creators, industries and cultural workers were asking for solutions, help and impulse to turn the clock around to years of precariousness. You have been very focused on the symbolic and not the practical, while the conception of culture continues to be one, without distinction, in catalá, and for a very determined citizenship, when – and in this it will give us the reason, counsel – the cultural expressions are diverse and plural, but we find that they are priority lines, projects and creations determined for Catalonia that you draw, imagine and believe. But Catalonia is from Pérez Andújar as much as Lluís Llach or Isabel Coixet as much as Isona Passola, to give examples. But you are only conceiving a uniform and monocultural Catalonia, and while it is supporting, disseminating and counting on the presence of members of the Generality in events of "popular and traditional descent, others are being or are seeing that they do not exist. The changes, the lack of leadership and the lack of direction until the time of the Department of Culture found in a difficult situation that seemed that it could not instil, but arrived the Covid, that has manifested with more cruelty, if possible, a precarious, intermittent and very little stable sector. Moreover, it has found the generality's lack of knowledge of how the sector works, of how to deal with the consequences of the pandemic for the cultural sector, and thus to be able to convey help, services and search for real alternatives that allow them to continue, in accounts of victimizing it prohibiting cultural events or limiting the outburst to make it unsustainable and impossible to achieve it. It is incomprehensible that in a situation of cultural emergence as in which we find ourselves there is no minimum coordination and communication with the sector, just as with the same administrations. This has caused many gatherings to cancel holidays and contracts with the cultural sector, and leave them without economic compensation, shielding themselves in the pandemic, without stopping to think that behind a contract there are people doing preparation work, which must also be paid. This health crisis has exposed the importance of culture. They have helped us overcome and make the confinement more bearable, in many cases hard, with their talent and performances on the balconies and social networks. And thanks, above all, to the generosity of the creators, who have offered their work in a free and unselfish way. They had to reinvent themselves and look for other ways to give to know their work. That's right, they've always done it since solidarity, they understand that for the citizenry it was and is necessary culture, even more in these moments of uncertainty. From here, give them the graces of all color. Once the confinement is over, the situation for the living culture has been demolishing. Limitations of exhibitions in theatres, museums, cinemas, mini-festivals in the free area, sealing of rooms where concerts or events can be made for demanding and very severe limitations to complete with sanitary conditions, prohibitions of opening. All this is swept away with a policy of communication of the measures taken at every moment, as at least, better, since it generated confusion. A drama. All this has led creators and creators, artists, technicians, cultural workers, in short, to be in a very vulnerable situation. Cinemas are also patenting enhancement limitations that involve retreading staff or joining ERTOs. Events like Sant Jordi, the Book Week in Català, Vic's Live Music Market, the Tàrrega Festival or major festivals have reinvented themselves to complete with sanitary measures and follow with the realization of its activity and reactivate everything that is not seen from culture, because there is an invisible part without which there is no culture, and these people do not always forget us. What is not seen in culture are the thousands of related techniques and activities, which have suffered a long time difficult to overcome: entrepreneurs, technicians, climbers, team logists, catering, space and stage registrars and much more, which have been affected by the total suspension of congresses, symposiums, presentations, conventions, etc. Very vulnerable sectors, and many people in these activities had their survival when there was no season of performing arts. A few freelance technicians or dependent autonomists, and, at last, false autonomies to whom they are forced to pass an invoice through cooperatives or other businesses because they cannot and cannot afford to pay the fee. People who don't work don't charge and don't come in. What was the General's response? A package of help that has not arrived or has proved insufficient, such as help to basic sub-administrations, that have not arrived in time or to all people who needed it, due to a lack of good communication. They had expected to reach six thousand people and only had it rejected 1,500. Either there is a disconnection, lack of willfulness or little publicity to get to the affected. Perhaps the demanding and many-incidence requests at the time of filing the requests caused them to be retouched in a later decree, discussed in this House. More measures: line of the Catalan Institute of Finance from credit to enterprises and cultural projects, help to enterprises of the ICC, services and generalist aids of the Government of the State and the Government of the Generality. These measures have not responded to the situation and have arrived late. However, because they do not say that they are not constructive, this Parliament approved in the Covid's monogramme plethora measures for the long term, of which I will ask you three in concrete terms. Have they started working on the implementation of cultural science for people and families with few tickets and those who have been punished for the Covid crisis? Have the work of the hundreds of workers and cultural workers begun? Are you working on the elimination of sub-contracts in precarious cultural equipment? And we're offering you an idea from now on: enable a safeguard clause instruction by covid's motion to all events planned for local administrations, which can be suspended for a cause of force majeure or survivable measures. We have the obligation to promote, from the Generality, protection for workers and workers of culture, who are drawn and without compensation or compensation. We are talking about the 3.5_percent turn of direct GDP in Catalonia. Thus, of the 6,900 companies that have presented an ERTO to Catalonia, 14_per_cent are cultural, and affect 53,000 workers, which gives a photograph quite worrying about the magnitude of the tragedy. And that without counting the workers of culture who work intermittently. Therefore, we must act urgently on the scale of the problem and the importance of the sector. How do you value, counsel, the measures proposed for the department up to now? What lines of action are planned to reactivate the sector? There's a lot of work to do, a lot of requests to attend to the solutions to be offered. In any case, in all the reference to the rescue of a sector punished as culture, you will find yourself at least in the table to dialogue and try to agree as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Culture Advisor, Mrs. Ángels Ponsa, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.135.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member of Parliament, Councillor of the Presidency, Members of Parliament. I would like to say to myself, Member, that Councillor Puig was the Councillor of Culture at this time. I'm telling you. Therefore, circumstances are what they are and things happen that no one would like to have happened. But, well, today, as you said, we will not talk about the symbolic, we will talk about the practical, because there are many things to talk about the practical and I hope that I can give it, with this moment, all the explanations to the extent that I can and, if not, I am at your disposal, like the rest of the members of this Parliament, so that I can do it. What have we done? You ask us what we've done with the rescue plan and I'll give you updates on September 8th, huh? That's the date we've taken; that's it, just before yesterday. And above all to clarify many of the things and concepts that you have said, in the face of the citizenry that you have been listening to us, in the face of the professionals of culture, and so that we can also interpret clearly and transparently which government has managed to help the Covid-19 for culture. We have created help for cultural workers and entrepreneurs. We've made four Covid lines plus a performance, which would emphasize that this performance is absolute novelty in the joint – even if we know, huh? – from the State and certainly beyond, because it is not normal for a department of Culture to manage social services. These lines we have worked with the sector; we have not invented ourselves. We have put in technical knowledge and, therefore, political logic of the department, but we have worked with the sector. We've met with more than two-hundred people, people who may be more uplifting, and all those who have asked us to be able to listen to them. And from these meetings we have gathered the needs of the sector and we have started to act, haven't we? To give him a cup of coffee. How much money has the Department of Culture also granted on September 8th? So we've allocated EUR 34 million, here we've added the four lines that he was talking about, plus the performance of professionals who couldn't join with any help, not from the Ministry of Culture, from the Spanish Government. Who have we donated them to? The 81_per_cent of these moneys are the sum of artists, creators, small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperatives. In relation, therefore, to limited societies, private civil societies, autonomous... And a 12_per_cent to anonymous societies and the remaining 7_per_cent are associations and entities. How many people have benefited? On the 1,500 you said, huh? , of social benefit only – we speak only of social benefit – 2,478 artists and creators have benefited. It is true that in the first moment and with a joint work of which I can give faith, because I participated with the Department of Social Affairs and Families, so we heard very well and we have to thank them very much that they took our tune at once. We didn't get enough of it all..., we never had a social service in this sense and maybe it wasn't enough of it, but I assure you that we reacted with agility and we're already calling, with the surplus money..., because all those people who couldn't be joined by the Government of the country or the Government of the Spanish State can be welcomed. For what you do to the research fellowships, we've doubled the assignment, huh? We have now allocated €600,000, of which 100 artists and creators have benefited, with a direct allocation of €60,000 based on a compliment we asked for. Covid grants also benefited 1,259 cooperatives and businesses in the sector. Because we are convinced, Mrs Abelán, that helping businesses is basic in order to be able to help professionals, because it is actually companies that also pay the salaries of professionals. With these three lines of special help Covid, we've managed to support 1,150 cultural projects, huh? I'm talking about projects now; that means that there are people in them who are creators, they're peppers, they're autonomies that make entities that have no jobs, associations, foundations. They are cultural projects that take over the whole sector, the whole association fabric of the country. In this sense too, the rescue plan, and according to the sector, huh? , and with the data we have of the meetings and the reactivation plans..., from the minute zero we were aware that the restrictions they had – and that you were expressing your concern, logically, for the pandemic, that this was not expected – could be very difficult for the sector. Yesterday, in the question that Congressman Ten asked me, he said that even this crisis with the cultural sector took place, and that's it, huh? We have deployed the entire department's management team, and technical, to accompany the cultural sector during the crisis, to listen to it, to collect its needs, to transfer them to the Procicate team, so that we donate our feet to something we don't know. We're going to set up some first packets of protection measures, too, that allow us to donate liquidity to save these jobs that we found... well, that had fallen for the pandemic, the bowls that the same artists had, and try not to destroy this rich and diverse fabric but also fragile, so, which forms the..., that are escaped, plus, run from the territory. The result of this is known, it's made hundreds of findings. I don't think anyone can say that you haven't been listening to the Department of Culture, at the level that you are, but everyone – everyone – has been..., and he has recognized, listened to us. In all these meetings we collected more than forty documents from each of the disciplines culture has with petitions and needs, which helped us to lay the first measures of shock. I can assure you, really, that no one – no one – has gone unnoticed, huh? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, We concentrated all this information, which you say there may have been a lack of information; sometimes it's hard to channel it. But we focused it on a specific website, which we named "The Rescue Plan, which has had more than 35,000 consultations, with the Conca together, because this is all an alliance issue, huh? I will mention to you more immediately, than we have to do, institutional alliances but also public and private alliances. We're going to set up the cultural emergence channel. All the information collected, therefore, gave this fruit that was recognized for the same sector and accepted for the same sector. And we also restructured a premise that this Parliament had just approved and that we were at least – at least – satisfied with, because there was a certain increase. We're going to restructure it for lines of credit, give liquidity, so, to businesses, to autonomies, lines of help, even to lost funds; lines of support to creators, companies and groups. We worked very closely with the assemblies, with the deputies, with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, with the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, to try..., and they collected it – that we are very grateful – in their decision that they made..., to try, therefore, that no cultural activity was suspended, that there was no possibility of..., in other words, that you intended to preserve as much as possible the cultural programming that they had, adapting us, so yes, to the measures that were being taken. We made the day change of Sant Jordi. We approved an extraordinary expansion, also, for the purchase of books, of 1_million more than was expected, for the library acquisition system, which is the SAB. Therefore, the SAB will allocate €3,230,000 more..., sorry, no more; in conjunction, eh? , to give support to the Catalan publishing market, not just..., I would say, more than « the Catalan publishing market, to the entire value chain of the book, eh? , from the writers to the editorials. We made decrees to modify grant regulations, at last, and to be able to make the bases more flexible, so that we did not harm the initiatives that were seen altered by the Covid. Surely we could have done more, honourable Member, surely. Always, when you see it in perspective, you think that maybe there's something that... you could have done more. I do not show him satisfaction, here, but I can tell him that we are after things; that, unfortunately, the pandemic continues, that the moment has changed, that it must now go to different things, that it must continue with support for the emergency situation and that it must also design this dam and this refinement of culture. And anyway, because we are convinced that culture is essential. And if that's what it looks like, then that's what I'll be referring to in the second part of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.136.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line up, she's got a new turn on the congresswoman. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.137.0	Thank you. Well, it seems that meeting with the whole sector is working directly with them, and it's not. The very people who have met with the councillor and the department itself what they always say is that they meet a lot, they talk a lot, they listen a lot, but then, at the time of truth, there is no coordinated work to be able to draw the proposals; that the proposals that come out of Culture come out behind the back of the sector and then they generate so many problems. If the social benefit has actually reached 2,400 people and not 1,500, as the radio counselor said the other day, it is evident that there are many artists and creators and cultural workers who had no idea, because, if not, they would have reached six thousand. It is clear that there are many workers who are going through very badly, and the culture sector needs much more than good words and say many numbers here. You were commenting on the state, weren't you? , which said we were talking..., well, and that the state had made perhaps less aid. Well, we've come to an agreement to open the artist's status and be able to work on it. And we would like very much, but very much, that the governments, Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, are for the work and do not do as they always do, that here say one thing but then go to Congress and say the opposite. Through intermitency one is looking, even from the status of the artist, to have a look placed..., well, to look to France, which is a reflection on intermitency, and to be able to work, that is, with consensus with the sector and hand-in-hand with the workers of culture. We have, from the State... well, I say it in Catalan, on its own. Since the State, it has stood at the side of the most vulnerable with the adoption of measures such as ERTOS and the vital minimum ingredient, which try to stop constantly... And he's also working really hard not to let these people get away with it. Yes, at the time of assumptions and of working proposals we do not find the necessary collaboration in the Congress, of the political forces forming the Government of the Generality. I stop centrifuging responsibility to other administrations. They say they're working with them, and that's not true. There is an extensive disconnection with the same administrations, especially the premises. Otherwise, they would not be making continuous cancellations of cultural acts that make the territories. Moreover, he included a letter from the Undersecretary of Sanitat to Lleida saying that it would be better if you canceled the major party. You hold the full powers of Culture – full. And it's important that they manage, that they lead the situation, and that they let themselves fall victim to the situation of culture and always pulling pilots out. They have the opportunity to govern fully on the subject of culture. Either they don't know or they're not exercising their skills at cent_per_cent. On the law of culture as essential service, which we commented on yesterday, forward. We totally agree with this, but we are tired of words and rhetoric. I told you before. Start working already and hope this time it's not a missed opportunity. And tell him something that's happened to us these days, yesterday... where, sometimes, well, his linguistic phonativeism... came out the other day at the radio, too, talking about the català, didn't it? , that it was important to defend the català. These statements, which are very essentialist and not very democratic, provoke public lynxation to parliamentary workers. They haven't said anything, and it's intolerable. I send them, yes, a very strong hug and all my support to the Ampero. And so are all those people who are painting the same. On proposals, I would say that it would be good to see the motions for resolutions that have come out, but we want to talk about encouraging a rescue and viability plan for culture before the sector's imminent risk of disappearing. To contemplate the Statue of the Artist, to work together from all administrations to seek solutions to the situation of culture. Also work and collaborate between the Councillor of Culture and, also, of Treball because you help them are direct and that, above all, the Conca urgently accelerates the elaboration of artists, of the cents, because it is important and they also have the charge here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.138.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word "conseller" again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.139.0	Thank you, Member of Parliament for the offer and the gain of working together. I'll take the witnesses. Let's just start this way, even though it's in brushstroke, I'm clearing something up. Miri, the artist's status is a little different from what you explained. It turns out that the artist's state began to work with this government in earlier stages. And to a servant, as the deputy of this chamber... I ask to go even to Madrid to entities that are there, so thinking and seeing that we are evolving here. The artist's state is far from holding its final stage. It wasn't easy, because we had to do a great job and, in this case, I can talk to him with knowledge because he was my responsibility for these two years and I'm anxious that I've been in the department. That's a lot to go on, huh? We have the report of the Durán-Sindreu buffet, which already gives us the pallets for which until now we can't finish it, which is why it was a topic that was getting reddened. But I can assure you that we are proactive in this and that we are willing to share it with whoever it is. To the benefit of culture, I assure you that they will not find us posing for anyone. On the contrary, asking for support and asking for help. And with that you're in the state government, you're also asking them to help us, huh? And that we can do this joint work for the benefit of the entire cultural sector. Then make him a cry, too. We cannot confuse the agreements with municipalist entities and with the joint ventures that have emerged in certain areas of the country that have drawn those agreements back. I don't sweep it. But we have always worked, and that is why the president of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the president of the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the deputies of Culture of the four deputies can give faith to him. If you talk to him, they'll tell him that we've made an institutional alliance that, after all, has allowed universal access to the Bible, huh? , the library system, so that we have increased the reading index of this country by 500_per_cent, which is a cause for satisfaction, because we have made a lot of reading plans and it turns out that, look, of the few good things that will have carried this pandemic..., will have continued this, which has increased the reading index. I, therefore... We have done all this in alliance and with the Barcelona Assembly, because without the Barcelona Assembly we could not have done it either. Because the Bible is made up of many institutions. And, therefore, we have worked on this aspect of the Cultural Commonwealth, which is also another source of institutional alliance. And with this intense soc because I assure you that it has brought us a lot of work, but very good results and much agreement. So, anyway, I want to explain it to you because that's it. It's not a fallacy. Tell him that, too, with the topic that culture is sure we have been distraught since the time of the dam. I myself and all my board of directors since the day the dam started, we haven't stopped to act in closed spaces, in open spaces. I don't feel as safe as I feel in a cultural space, I assure you. Because all the protocols are complete, because it's more than just done, and because... Clearly, or so, the result of that is that we've almost always had enough entrances, there's festivals in the free area, so – the director of the Palau de la Música told me the other day – in a recent concert last week, and in Beckett Hall, on the dam. Stay where you are. That is why I would not be able to make a very wide fan because I really know what I am doing with the example that culture is safe, so I will defend it wherever I choose. The same way, look, also in the sense of this proactivity, huh? Yesterday we inaugurated to the Arts Santa Monica an exhibition, "Ars Electronica, that his commissioner is a person who lives and works in Madrid, eh? in Vicente Matallana, and he explained to me, because he said publicly, and this can be found in the back, that an act like this, with so many linked institutions, was not imagined in Madrid, and I say so not because Angels Ponsa said it; the director of this festival said it and put it in full, so we were able to make institutional alliances of this type. I also tell him that with the català I don't know about speech and I think this government isn't speech or much less, I assure you. The language doesn't like fires or phonentalisms, it's convenient to go together and see the reality and know the data, too, that this is very important and it's what gives little. And tell him above all – above all – that on the subject of culture, you serve essential that must derive in this regulation, and we will see from what type, for the cultural rights of the citizenry, I truly offer myself, and the whole team of the Department of Culture and the whole government, because it is a task of the same president, to work together, to find the way that culture can have it well armored. Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.140.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the defence of institutions and self-government]] [[300-00298/12]] The next question to the Government is about the defence of institutions and self-government, and it is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.141.0	Councilwoman Budó, Speaker of Parliament, Members of Parliament, above the National Day of Catalonia and this year will be anomalous again, and I do not say this for the precautions derived from the Covid, which also, but for the repression that the country continues to patent. Like a reptile, like a menu of reptile that is meddling around, repression makes a living; it settles in politics; it affects civic entities, institutions. It's an abnormality, an indignity that effectively affects without mass blowing. Or, said in another way, repression, counsel, has managed to pass through a fact of appearance almost normal, almost inevitable, and for many it no longer generates alarm. As President Puigdemont explains today, the state of por, a state of why it does not have to beat us. This repression in a light way, but hard-core is so effective that there are good-willed people who think that this is over, that there is no repression. And this is not new: in the late sixties and late 1960s, there were also good-willed people celebrating the twenty-five years of peace convinced that there was little freedom. And no, there wasn't. As now, when this Parliament cannot speak of everything; as now, when justice has a malaltized fixation with the presidents of Catalonia; when the ports of call of the TSJ are like the Rambla but reserved to the Government of Catalonia; when Spain sends police, because, already, we will be again, when Spain sends police to Catalonia to frighten us again, it is both the Socialist Government and the Government of the People's Party, in this, as the vigil and weeks after the U of October have passed. They want to do us, and they're wrong. If they come back, counselor, we'll come back. If you look for us, there are, and there are always. Dignity is an attitude that strangely believes, it's bail, it takes you when you want to be small and sneaky and hold your position. "The mess, in Rajoy language, we are not Catalans. The mess is unfair feelings, knowing that they are unfair, and the tempt to continue sentencing with revenge as the only currency. In any case, we're where we are. Spanish represses, and it does so with the constancy of a diesel engine, and with the will not to blow, it is true. The formula is this: scratch it all; they want to scratch it all without stopping, but don't blow it. Eat it all, as the sea salabrer attacks the first-line skirts and windows, without stopping and without blowing. And in Catalonia, aware of this phenomenon of false calm, we must be coughed up, we must persevere in the defense of the country, and this defense also passes to protect our institutions. And we need to get to know the state, because this state always plays us against each other. A graphic, very graphic example, which was presented yesterday by Congresswoman Geis: the possible merger of CaixaBank with Bankia. Pedro Sánchez says she's good – she's good – for territorial cohesion. What are we talking about? , banks, economy or the unit of Espanya? What are we talking about? What's up? The warden or the DNI? Would Sanchez say that before the European Commissioner of Competition or Economy, or would they take him for a frivolous? In the measure that the State always acts like this, Catalonia as the country needs paragliders, of the paragliders that are served when rain, not of those offered in days of good weather. Curse those who offer you umbrellas when there is no rain; beware, and hold on to whom they protect you, to whom the umbrella is open when it has carried politics, when it is blowing the bad winds of repression, when a splash of water has to fall that endangers the rights and freedoms. Then yes, then the skydiving, the skydiving of the country, is said to be an institution. And the institutions are this: safe, secure. That's why we need strong institutions in Catalonia. Actually, everybody, it's true, he put the cards on the table. The State, the official Spain, no longer hides, no longer wants to disguise, no intention of concealing. They're out of chips on the scale. The State three years ago proved to retain Catalonia, without any hint of complicity, only with the force of the crude war, a war that squandered all the powers, all the pots of the State. And, of course, a state in systemic crisis is capable of being portrayed – and now it will – in whatever environment, with actions that literally do shameful things. Flying four examples? Four quick examples. One: the shame of the Spanish government's representatives defending Rodolfo Martín Villa, certainly, former Barcelona civil governor when the greys spread as if it were the U of October. Two: the shame of the exministrators of the rotating doors, signing in favor of the emeritus king, who is already bar. This exhibition of complicity with the rubble cube is a shame. Three: the shame of the prosecutor Zaragoza, art and part in the U d'Octubre trial, which criticizes face-to-face discovery of European justice. They see President Puigdemont sitting at the Eurocambra, they said he would never join, they listen to the favorable feeling of Councillor Puig, and they get the same amount they carry from them. They can't do it anymore. Prosecutor Zaragoza's article in La Vanguardia is cheating, and more importantly, it's a shame. One of the Supreme's men walking through the Prado Walk as if it were the Far West saloon. It's unaudited, and it's all right. What about spying? Home, espionage! It begins by spying on the mobiles of the "indeplete, if you find the taste and end up following your own party companions. And speaking of party partners, now there's no one from the People's Party. This is the Kitchen case, with 53,000 euros for the chauffeur, another pearl. It's absolutely out of the boundaries of the right state. But look at the Fernández Díaz plant, which works... a lampstore with ISO 9001 qualification in clavegueres. One day the health of Catalonia, another, the double skills of the PP. That's all very big. Are you sure, Counselor, they didn't blow up his cell phone? President Torrent, have you stopped noticing rare things about the furniture, sorolls, half-visions? Deputies and deputies from 155, the ones from this band: put their furniture to the punch. They're warned that the state's locksmiths never have enough. Like the young people with the computer, they always want one more game. Keyboards are exactly that. Some of you laugh and get angry because fifteen people around... or get angry when they come back. Some of you laugh when fifteen people around Puigdemont have, we have, punched phones. And here say fifteen, say 155. I am talking about what they say in forward-looking research, which is a euphemism, in case it has not been clear; a euphemism of « spies for yes. The 155 matches, don't they see that the state has exceeded all limits? I'll never ask a question... we'll certainly never ask a question about anyone's ideas, a deputy and a deputy. That each one manages as well as he can, as he knows, as he sees fit, his espanyolitty. But I did withdraw them that, under this espanyolitty, they do not know that there is democracy first. But we're still in practice. This situation of repression, how is it reoriented? How do we reorient it? How do we stop it? So those of us who are in politics today, we have a duty to safeguard institutions. And we have to do it yes or yes. Councillor Budó, ladies and gentlemen, we have these two obligations: U. We must avoid being hung under the runes of a state that has collapsed. Two. I to avoid it, we need to dialogue, negotiate, agree. We have to act. But they can't go on. We have to agree to the goodbye or the com; the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan republic. There's no alternative. We have to sort out the Bourbons and the IBEX 35, or new fire and bet for the country and people. The Spanish square is back then. Spain's justice has seen stress on the repressive service. A justice that is able to pose and take presidents of Catalonia because it has allergy, for and to the freedom of expression and opinion. The transition is not as explained to us, because, if not, the Catalan institutions and the figure of the President of Catalonia – it is an institution – would not be threatened. The official Spanish, five squares. A square that pulls with Franco's political will, those letters that Arias Navarro pronounced between leeches. Perhaps someone knows them from memory, in case a case I remind them: « Spanish, I want to thank those who have collaborated with enthusiasm, dedication and self-denial in the great company of making a united, large and free Spain. Who obsessed with the unit. I continue: "I ask you to persevere in unity and peace, and to surround the future king of Spain, Don Juan Carlos de Borbón. Here we have it. We've got it here. That's it, I can't get any more. The evils of today are pulling into this trap, the bogery of unity by unity. The basis of Spanish democracy is loyalty to the bound and well bound. Let's get rid of the reptile of repression that makes us think that what we're living is normal and not. They fly republic, Catalan republic. We want the fullness of our institutions, of this Parliament, of the Parliament of the country, of the Parliament of Catalonia, of the Generality and of its Government and of its Presidency. Protect us. Protect us, Counselor. Protect us, deputies and deputies. We protect institutions, which is like protecting the country, which is like protecting the future and the welfare of the people of this country. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.143.0	Thank you, President; Counsellor, Members, Members. Mr. Pujol, look, taking your words, first of all to say that we actually want to live in fullness. We want to live in the fullness of our civil rights and our political rights and, to do so, that our institutions are truly sovereign, whether it be the Parliament of Catalonia, the Generality or the very institution of the Presidency of the Generality. And I expressly quote these institutions because we have been living for a few years, as you said, in the face of brutal repression, and that in no way can we and we have to normalize it. Unfortunately, however, we are in a repression which is the result of the reality of Spanish institutions, such as the monarchy or justice, which are not the first of an advanced country, which are not the first of a fully democratic country and which are not the first of a European Union country of the 21st century. But that's the reality. Miri, these days, preparing this inquiry..., I see at the top a phrase that we can find in Xavier Casals' book on the Spanish transition and which says: "After Franco, the institutions. And it is that this motto, "after Franco, the institutions, which was also the title of an article of the ABC the year 1967, made for Luca de Tena, procurator of the Spanish Courts and member of a monarchic family, following the thesis of the Phalangist Jesus Pueyo, who claimed that the Francoism will survive the death of the dictator because the institutions were strong. And, effectively, this democratic crisis that saw the Spanish State, this democratic regression, gave reason to this slogan, "after Franco, the institutions. And, sadly, we could prove that everything was, as you remembered, tied and well bound. The same President Torra, in the meeting in Pedralbes with President Sánchez, on the September of the year 2018, already worked in three areas, already laid the work in three basic areas of any democracy, such as democratic regeneration, political ethics and the defeat of Spain. But when we see that there is no progress in these areas, and not only that, but the changes to respect are still more democratic regression, perhaps the problem is in the same concept of democracy on the part of the Spanish State. And in this, he also felt at the beginning of this month of August a very interesting article of the professor Javier Pérez Royo, where he made an analysis of what we call the 78's rule and stated that what was done under the appearance of democratic transition was actually a restoration of the monarchy. The objective, therefore, was not so much to reach democracy, but to restore and guarantee the stay of the Bourbon institution and of everything that it represented. And speaking of monarchy and the degradation of institutions, the degradation of the monarchy that we have experienced this summer could say that it has been at the top of the authentic shame. But before that, and despite the fact that the Spanish monarchic rule is infused into its own incompetence and its own shames, there will be nothing wrong with Spain. In an empty republican Spanish monarchy, nothing happens. In a Spain unable to exceed the limits established in year 78, nothing will happen. And in a Spain where you can't even question the crown, nothing will happen. You yourself have spoken of a recent case in which you have come back to make clear that we are in the 78th Regime and, in the case of Martín Villa, another authentic shame. That the representatives of the so-called Democratic Spain make a joint letter in support of a Francoist minister, as well as the representatives of the trade unionism of the last forty years, is, if I may say so, honourable Member, as an attack on institutional dignity. But this is the reality of a Spain formed by parties and by the business and trade union elites who call themselves constitutionalists, and that if one thing joins them at the time of defending it, there are two questions: the monarchy and the territorial unit. And to do so they do not hesitate to use one of the other Spanish institutions that is totally degraded: justice. A justice that has also been top of this estuary for different shames. Therefore, speaking of justice, let me also talk to you about the reports prepared for the Greuges Synod with the participation also of different magistrates, where two facts are precisely observed. For one band, the partisanship of justice and, for another, the judicialization of politics. And it's that a state that lives in a judicialized policy and a politicized justice is not a democratic state, and it turns out precisely that this is the case with the kingdom of Spain. It has been years since the Catalans lost count of the misproposals of Spanish justice, some misproposals that do not only affect the independenceists, but that directly affect democracy. Why can democracy tolerate the courts of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court resolving what they can think or what they can vote on in the Catalan Parliament? Can a democracy tolerate that a court annuls what the citizens voted in reference, as was the case with the State? Can a democracy tolerate that nearly three years ago there have been political prisoners and exiles? Can a democracy tolerate organizations like Amnesty International making claims that the Spanish State still has a way to resort to becoming a country free from human rights violations? So look, all these questions and many other similar... the Spanish institutions seem to have deafness. Look, also, if we talk about justice, we have seen the opening of the judicial year this very week, where we could see the king, in front of an institution that has been ashamed of the whole country; the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is a political organ, but more than anything else is expired, and we have also seen that what was hoped to change the repressive direction of the prosecutor, the attorney general and ex-governor of the government Sánchez, and that, contrary to what some seemed, they gave them explicit support that they expected something to change, in their opening speech of the judicial year, to say that the trial to the political prisoners was exemplary. But you know what? That, in the face of Spanish justice, German justice made it clear that neither rebelled nor sedition. And Belgian justice has also made it clear that the Supreme Court was not competent in the case. Just this disagreement was presented to Brussels the presentation « Political prisoners in contemporary Spain, the work of Santiago Sierra which in its day was censored to the kingdom of Spain and which counted on the intervention of President Puigdemont. And President Puigdemont, among many other statements, said that the difference between the State and the rest of Europe is precisely the notion and concept of freedom. Perhaps that's why it seems that Spain is more comfortable in its international relations with China or Turkey than with the color countries of Europe. Following the concept of freedom laid down by President Puigdemont, I have no doubt that the Catalan society responds to the concept of European freedom. And I have no doubt that the institutions of a state that wants to be fully democratic must respond to the concept of European freedom. But I also have no doubt that within the kingdom of Spain the institutions are in the antipodes of the concept of European freedom. And that is precisely why the best defence of our institutions and of our self-government is to achieve an independent Catalonia in the form of a republic. I'm done. The situation in which we find ourselves in the Spanish State is chronic and structural, and the time for only solving nothing. I'll take it from there. It's an intelligent confrontation, and that's political. Because that's the only way to make changes to move forward like society in our individual and collective rights; civil and political rights that we can't exercise today. In fact, in a week the Supreme Court can confirm a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia of the incapacity of President Torra to exercise and defend freedom of expression. They want to disable the main institution of our country. But, in addition, we also remember that on 23 September the President of the Generality must re-declare in a _second trial the High Court of Justice. And here we are, and that's very hard. It is very difficult to attack the same institution, but it is also very difficult because it directly attacks the civil and political rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. And in defense of institutions and in defense of our rights and in defense of democracy as a people and as citizens, we must react. Do it and, as you said, Mr. Pujol, we protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.144.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into the productive economy]] [[300-00299/12]] The next point is the question to the Government about the productive economy, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Roquer. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.145.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Tremosa, the first thing I have to do when I start this inquiry is congratulate him on his appointment and tell him what sense of doubt I am fully convinced that it will serve because the country works better. And you were named last week, you said last week, and on the first Tuesday of each month, the last month's job and time data are coming out, and the van is retrieving 12,293 more people than there were in July; 480,000 people at last, in total, practically 30_percent more than there were in August of last year, and that takes into account that there are 170,000 people in ERTO in Catalonia. Therefore, all of these data indicate that your step ahead of Business and Knowledge Consulting will not be easy. And you face this and other challenges, the solution of which you will tend to see sense of doubt, too, with this, with the occupation. Catalonia's industrial fabric, which accounts for approximately 20_percent of GDP, is ahead of the challenge of industrial revolution 4.0, industry 4.0, and always, to all industrial revolutions, the Catalan economy had come to the fore. Today, if our businesses don't adapt to it, our 95_per_cent businesses are small and medium-sized businesses, they can't be competitive, and if they're not competitive, the country will grow. Nissan recently announced that he was closing the plants in Catalonia, and this has put us ahead of the lookout for changes in the automotive industry, which occupies more than 4_percent of the population occupied in Catalonia. While SEAT has announced an investment plan in the electric vehicle, there is a lot of automotive auxiliary industry that is still working for the internal explosion engine. What to say about the repte that represents tourism for Catalonia. Catalonia is a country in the heart of the economy of which tourism has an important pessimism, around 13_percent of GDP, and has seen demand reduced in an unimaginable way a year ago; it was an unimaginable year ago that the demand for tourism in Catalonia fell in the way it fell, and, well, it did bet every time more for the quality than not for the quantity, the wages of tourism and the working conditions of tourism will have to fit the middle of the wages and the middle of the working conditions of Catalonia. Other sectors such as trade or the cultural industry, which we are talking about now with Constellera Ponsa, which also deal with relationships between people who need contacts about people, have also experienced the stars of the Covid crisis. In short, transition to sustainable and resilient economic models. The digitization, the ecological transition to renewable energy infrastructures or the transformation of the agri-food model... In short, reptiles that will serve to reduce social inequalities, as indicated, as expected, by the Plan of Economic Reactivation and Social Protection approved by the Government. Yesterday, today we read in the diary that the second quarter GDP in Catalonia had fallen by 21,3_per_cent, above all because of the fall of the demand for families; another challenge that must be added, in which you find yourself. And the need to invest in research both from research centres and from the transfer of research from universities to business so that industry can benefit, and society in general can benefit. All these circumstances will strongly mark the rise of the economy of the Catalan economy and we trust in its ability to solve it, but we are not convinced that it can get out. And we're not convinced that you can get out because you've been appointed a counselor from a country that's not normal. A country that is not normal because, for example, it has a chronic fiscal deficit of years and years and years, of all the historical series we study, there has been a fiscal deficit in Catalonia, which varies between 5 and 8 per cent, depending on the method of calculation we use, but in any case a fiscal deficit exists. We got a report from the University of Barcelona, made jointly with the Generalitat, in which it evaluated what effects it had on the private investment that had been made, if it had been invested in Catalonia, according to three standards: the one that had been assumed, the medium that would be invested in other autonomous communities or that would touch it according to GDP. Well, this indicates that if you had invested in Catalonia according to what it would touch for participation in state GDP, there would be 9.8_per_cent more than GDP, 23.820_million, or 113,000 more people working in Catalonia. It is a country where there is little competitiveness in energy production, and energy regulators are not to protect consumers. And Europe's most expensive energy is paid here. Your government will hardly be able to apply the fiscal policies that it would have to apply. The OECD said, on the other hand, that, as a result of the 2008 crisis, taxes on consumption and work have increased, taxes on ecology and the digital sectors should be increased. Few skills have in these two areas, and social contributions, zero. The Generality does not have access to the European fund for reconstruction or to the financing of the European Central Bank. That's... they'll have to go through Madrid to get the resources here. And normal countries have a diverse financing system adapted to the needs of each part of the territory. A few days ago we knew the intentions of CaixaBank and Bankia to merge with the benefits of scale yields. That, frankly, from the displacement of CaixaBank de Catalunya, October 2017, it is difficult to think strictly and only on economic criteria at the time of taking these decisions. By the way, going to Valencia didn't go well, to CaixaBank, which lost 57_percent of the stock market value after it left. Catalonia has seen the disappearance of the two boxes it had, some of which were very poorly managed, especially in the field of investments and those related to the whole. The Sabadell left, the Caixa left... It is practically without a bank close to Catalonia, and in our opinion it is not good news that the market in the banking sector is still more concentrated, because it will have some difficult effects to explain, in our opinion, from the economic point of view. There'll be a lockdown of offices. We read that 1,400 postal codes... A Barclays report said 1,400 postal codes would match: CashaBank's offices and Bankia's offices. It is likely that there will be a down payment in the customer's attention, as well as an increase in commissions. And it's likely that they're friendly with people. Some xifren studies that can take up to two thousand people. It is already large that a funded entity participated for the State – because the State as a result of the participation that it has with Bankia, with the funded entity resulting..., there will participate a 14_per_cent – with people in the midst of the health crisis. Bankia was given 24,000_million euros because it was kept, to reflect it. They've only recovered 3,000. What will happen to the rest? Who's gonna pay them? Even Moody's, the certification agency, you see difficulties in the fusion. In fact, it says that immediately it will not create a stronger entity, that there will be significant restructuring costs, that profitability will be seriously touched and that it shows uncertainty about the development and judicial conflict Bankia has since the stock market. All these doubts suggest that there may be a different criterion to the economic narrowness of this fusion. And it wouldn't be the first time that political directives go over economic criteria. And Mr Pujol said it now and Mrs Geis said it yesterday: Mr Pedro Sánchez said that the merger would contribute to territorial cohesion. Maybe it's a clue to why this merger happened. Do you know the challenges facing you, do you know the difficulties your government will face, which are the axes of your department's policy respecting the Catalan productive economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.146.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement, the Lord Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.147.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, please make this first appearance from the Faristol today. See, you've commented on a lot of questions and talked about the weather. Actually, so, we live in a unique and exceptional situation and the data is not good, right? And be vigilant to see how far the government, even though it has scarce resources, can help save the peppers. The goal must be to save the peppers and try to avoid the closure of the companies, because for example Mr. Bill Gates says that we will have a vaccine on Tuesday. We don't know, that, but he has a lot of information. But today, for example, I have visited Fira de Barcelona and they have great hope in the quick texts that they can do; texts that will allow, for example, in five minutes to know if all people who jump in an airplane do not have the infection or all people who have to enter a restaurant or a theater or a hairdresser, so they do not have this infection. Therefore, we can develop with all precautions and preventions this normality. And in this sense, therefore, the priority is to save the peppers and arrive until March, until April, to see if the situation improves and tourism, which is an essential activity engine, can start another time, right? And in this sense, I, the one who sees the Spanish Government when some ministers have said "it would be good to enlarge the ERTOs", find that it is magnificent news. For the first time in history we have a great economic crisis where central banks all over the world have reacted quickly. In the European case, in the previous crisis, the European Central Bank trigated four years to react, and has now trigated four weeks. Since March, there's been a massive buyout program for public and private debt and, in this sense, that's great news. Moreover, there is the fund of recovery which was approved in July, which issues for the first time public debt jointly at the level of the European Union. That, if you had told me the generation, I who have been in community institutions for years, would have said, "You have no chance of succeeding. And not only that, the Spanish State on August 3rd, coinciding that the Emeritus king left, took advantage to demand the rescue of the SURE. And maybe there's another line, that's the Mede line, that maybe it'll go through too. Therefore, there are many lines of credit from 0.1_per_cent to 30 years that allow to increase the resources of public administrations, and this is very welcome. Never before has there been such a program of money to keep public servants and avoid, therefore, that the figures of the day do not reach 25 or 30 per cent, that it would be a brutal drama at the social level, and in turn we have much more measured figures. And in this sense, yesterday I also said that in the first meeting with social workers we find ourselves in an unusual situation in Catalonia, Nordic. The two great unions and the two great Catalan employers share the diagnosis. Treball's promotion said: « Cal inject 50,000_million direct help to the peppers to save them. We all agreed. And what the Spanish State has always cost a lot, that government, opposition, unions, and employers coincide with the diagnosis of a crisis... and, therefore, it is easier if we have a shared diagnosis of finding a solution. This is happening here today, we have to put a lot in value. And in this sense, in the case of tourism, that like rural tourism, mountain tourism, coastal tourism this year has worked very well, yes it is true that in the case of Barcelona city, Lloret, Salou, in some concrete cases where there is a lot of international tourism, so, here are some impressive caigudes. It is very important that we can guarantee continuity. Let's freeze the businesses, no matter what. Tanqueu, but we freeze the companies. We cover the fixed costs, you arrive until April to see if there is a vaccine, if there are quick texts, that we can re-engage. And in this sense, that's very good. I think tourism is a great engine of activity. Not only do tourists come when there is a connection with a European city or another country. Researchers, lecturers, master students, firefighters and congresses may come. Therefore, it is a path we cannot renounce, and Catalonia has a certain natural leadership for what it does to climate, culture, gastronomy and history. You have a lot of resources to offer, and it's a tourist power in southern Europe, isn't it? Industry. Catalonia, then, has been an industrial country, hasn't it? , and in this sense, the virtues of industrial countries are known: less hard, more export, more R & D, more productivity, and the wealthiest, social welfare, more benefits, more resources for the economy, right? And in this sense, all that can be done to help the automotive industry is very important. We talk a lot about Nissan and we talk a lot about the automotive crisis, which I will now mention, but we don't let it..., we also put in value up to what point the automotive industry, which represents 15_percent of GDP, today surpasses the agri-food industry, which in Catalonia already represents 16_percent of GDP, and which carries a divided_monthly trade surplus, unprecedented to the history of Catalonia. Catalonia has no water or fertile land, two thirds of forests, almost half the territory with a 20_percent slope, mountain, and it turns out that it exports for a value of 10,000_million and has an agri-food surplus. And besides, these data from the last few months are very good. And here we have a thread of activity to emphasize that it's very important, isn't it? And for what it does, therefore, to Nissan, we also value the SEAT agreement. SEAT, better known as the Volkswagen, announced a 5.000_million reversal, thanks also that Angela Merkel made some injections with a very important rescue plan to Germany for the electric car, and now there are various offers to go to the old Nissan plant, which is, as said Pere Navarro, the crossing of Catalonia's Industrial Grace, that is, the best location from the logistic point of view: port and airport at the side, connection, access with motorway and railway, an ecosystem of peppers and newer available. And in this sense, so, I in the conversations I've had... no one suffers because I'm deserted. On the contrary, we have to find that reversal that maximizes the number of occupations Nissan had, so clearly, the d'Action that didn't stay in the band either, right? And, in this sense, it's our job to try to make a positive replenishment, that is, that Nissan's release allows new sustainable mobility, for example a boat factory that can feed the future sustainable car, that Volkswagen wants to start producing electric cars and other engines, in this sense, in the future, right? We also value that the year we see will finally have available the Mediterranean Corridor. Not in a version as called for by the European Union in its 2013 agreement, is it to say, two segregated European wide streets exclusive to goods, but in the form of a third wire that will serve the route of Rodalies de Baix Llobregat, which is a way through which one hundred and fifty trains pass per day. But, well, it's not like we want to, but it will, for example, make it possible to get a direct line to the door of Martorell's SEAT plant. And the student per unit, the student per car, will be very important; a few hundred euros per unit. Now the SEAT exports with a cart made by the Generalitat twelve years ago, which took twenty-thousand trucks from Martorell's A-2 highway to the port, but at the port they have to unload all the cars, put them on a train with European size, and exit the European markets. If they can get directly out of the factory, the student can become superior between three hundred and four hundred euros per car. For this reason, when Luca de Meo spoke that "connectivity is the next source of competitiveness, he was right, because today at the cost of manufacturing a vehicle, the logistical cost is already more important than the cost of personnel in the total invoice of a car. And in this sense, therefore, it is very good news that one year from now, nor that it is in the form of a piece with a minimum reversal of 300-400 million euros, the Martorell-Castellbisbal tram can be used, and, therefore, we celebrate this reversal of the Spanish Government. The PP government has left the investments in Catalonia to zero, and, at least, if not, this news we have to highlight, right? You have spoken of autonomous financing, and here to the Vice President of Catalonia, so I will not mention it, because it is well known that many years ago Catalonia, third community in contribution, in fiscal effort, draws on disposable income, and if we apply the purchasing power parity we do not go to the fourteenth-fifth position. So that's not what I'm talking about. It is also true that the lack of infrastructure has a lot of literature, and we will not enter it. From this you can easily find reports of the degree of execution of the public work of the State in Catalonia, which went, let's say, very slow. You talked about energy. Yes, but we must also make self-criticism. The Catalan administration has to be able to speed up the processing of the peppers, and Aragó is a model. The government of Aragó when it accelerates and repeats terms... It cannot be that a wind or photovoltaic project lasts five years or six, or four; at two years the maximum limit, until now a company wants to expand the factory and has to modify a POUM, two years. And fix in the data: Aragó, 50_percent of wind energy installed in March this 2020; Catalunya, zero. So, we need to self-criticize and review, we need to speed up this function. And the topic of "the Bank and the Cashier", well, let's wait to evaluate the final agreement. I'm done briefly, Mr. President. If we keep the services in Catalonia, that's a very good condition, huh? Therefore, we must wait to see that we do not decapitulate the human capital we have and the added value they create here. Thank you very much and to see, and to arrange.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.148.0	Thank you, Counselor. Are you going to do that, Congressman? ( Ferran Roquer and Padrosa resigns from using the word.) [[Question to the Government on the management of Covid-19 funds for economic and social recovery]] [[300-00297/12]] So let's get to the next point of the order of the day, which is the fourteen point, and it's the question to the government about the management of Covid-19 funds for economic and social recovery, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. His presentation will be made by Congressman Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.149.0	Thank you, Vice President. Honourable Vice-President, in any case, the initial approach of the inquiry that we wanted to make to him referred to the management of the Covid-19 funds for economic recovery, but we cannot refrain and believe that it was also important to ask him about the management of the municipal Romans, especially in one day, let us say to him, that it is opportune, and because we believe that there are various similarities between the management of one thing and the other. In any case, we would not want to start this inquiry..., also reminding him that we find ourselves in front of a health crisis that makes us in this situation, without a clear horizon, and that in any case we cannot forget that everything that is going on in all the management has to take into account this situation that the main concern of the government at these times is working for the situation, to become..., let's say, to look for the lives of people, that is the most important objective we have at these times. I insist, we don't want to unlink this subject from the municipal romants. We believe that, as it was raised to the royal decree by the Government of the Socialist Party, Common, We can, it is evident that there is a clear, let us say, ensnared against the municipal world. He wanted to pass through the city world in a low way. And in any case we believe that, I insist, there is a sequence of coincidences, that they are the will to re-centralize, a way of acting, a model of action of the Spanish government, not only of the current Spanish government of the PSOE, but that we have already found it on other occasions – as they say, "Spanish brand". And this is also produced with a centralizing view and with a clearly voluntary view, let's say, to disregard the content and the rest of the active subjects and the various local governments and governments that exist. In any case, on the 30th of April, when the Government of the Generalitat was in a state of confinement, it estimated that 2020-2021 would suffer a contraction in GDP of 7.6, and pointed out that 2021 would be able to recover a 6 and a half. These forecasts, according to you, were conditioned if the governments were after the lessons or not of the year 2008, how the crisis was dealt with at the time. We understood, and you manifested it, the need for the public sector to lead the recovery, the stimulation of domestic demand and the economy, and we believe that this is the way forward. We believe that, let's face it, the Public Administration has to lead all this recovery process. We believe that we need to look for European referents, who have, as you put it, come up with a different way of dealing with this 2008 crisis. It is clear that the European authorities have committed to the investment and public expenditure to deal with the economic consequences of the Covid-19, with the result of EUR 390_million in direct aid or grants and more than EUR 360,000_million in loans. And, therefore, it seems that this is the right line to follow. As you know, in the Chinese word "crisis" is formed by two characteristics, one which means peril and the other which means opportunity, and therefore we also believe that in this context of crisis we are ahead of an opportunity. We believe that, as you were manifesting at the time, there is a chance to confront and get out of this crisis, not just to return..., or in any case not to return from there where we left, but to change some of the models. We don't just need to talk about reconstruction, we just need to talk about redistribution and re-democratisation. They are phenomena that must lead us out of this crisis in the best conditions. We can't take back the same problems, but we need to get out and tackle this out of the crisis because we want to enter the 21st century fully overcoming these problems. European foundations are an opportunity to move from the competitiveness of low wages to the knowledge-based competitiveness that they serve to ensure inclusive, sustainable and equitable growth. Therefore, we insist, the model in 2008 was of the People's Party, accompanied also for Convergence and Union, to come out in a context of restricted crisis, of limitation of rights, based on precariousness and low wages, and we believe that this is not the way forward. We believe, we insist, that we have this opportunity to come out in a different way, to attack the crisis in this way, not with the neoliberal dogmas that led that other crisis, but that in any case I allow us to work with much more social concepts, and in any case I allow us a more robust, more sustainable and more equitable economic model. We must take advantage of the country's strengths, many of them, such as biotechnology and food, to advance towards a new paradigm. It is essential to present an alternative model that represents most of the IBEX 35, this IBEX that was simply based on the BOE joint and to facilitate some outputs to friends. We need to reactivate the productive economy, a five-year plan that guarantees a sustainable knowledge economy that generates and distributes wealth, the gender perspective is present in a cross-cutting way and that prioritizes the estimum of strategic sectors. Learning from errors means not applying re-focusing policies, as was done at the time with the FLA or the Presuppositional Enabling Law, and we believe that this is where we need to go. Today is essential, and we think that... another model of doing things, in another way. We believe that it is essential that these foundations be managed from within the vicinity. We believe that it is the Government of the Generality together with the assemblies that must be able to decide what should be the fate of these foundations, and therefore we would also like to know the government's understanding of this issue. And we believe that what they have to do is..., these foundations must be able to share with a clear will of collaboration of all actors– of actors, I insist, but also local social actors –, of very open participation to break this model that is precisely so critical, which we criticise from the fact that it is managed..., from this re-centralizing capacity and only to decide from the same government without taking into account the different actors. We want to remember that the assemblies have had the ability to stay alive, or have been able to save 3,000_million euros in the past few years as a result of good management in the municipal sphere. We think it's a good example of how the gatherings, they know what reality is, they know who are the difficulties of each of their citizens, they have had the ability, let's say, to enter and solve some of the problems. We saw – unfortunately we could see – that he managed it..., let's say, when the economic situation or elements managed from the government of Madrid we had many more difficulties. Some data, just. We will remember that in 2013 and 2017 the Catalan airports were covered by 20_percent of the passengers of the whole State but only 10,4_percent of the investment; the Catalan trains were covered by 23_percent of the passengers and only 13_percent of the investment. Therefore, we see that in any case there is no fair management of public resources, that in any case they are poorly managed when, above all, it is far from the distance. Another data that came out relatively recently, that between 2015 and 2018 in Catalonia only executed 66_percent of the assumed investment, while in Madrid a 114_percent was executed. So, we have to finish, let's say, with these malfunctions. And in any case he tried to pose... And I can't be sure that in any case these moneys in many cases in Madrid have served at these times to finance an infrastructure, from direct or indirect contributions, such as the royal house, which costs us a lot and a lot of money to all Catalans and Catalans, who don't answer democratically before anyone and who ends up enjoying impunity, as you can see, from the judicial point of view as well as from the political point of view, in which, let's say, there is no persecution or control over these expenses that are empty. Therefore, we, and in order to finish this first part of my intervention, believe that the bet must be clear on four mistakes. If I may say so, about reconstruction, about redistribution, about redemocratisation and about resources. And these four errs find an umbrella in a capital error that is called a republic. We believe in the ability we have as a country to manage these resources from the same Government of the Generality in consonance and together with the rest of the political actors, starting with the assemblies. We think we'd be much more able to give out to the concerns that worry us today. We could see, during the context of the crisis, that the Government of the State has agreed not to be helped by the Government of the Generality. We believe that in managing some of the resources, some of the help, the Government of the Generality was on condition of giving a hand to the Government of the State, but all of them were denied. Therefore, we believe that this is to the detriment, in short, not of the State no problem, let us say, among the administrations, but, in short, that, in this sense, it is the citizens who are harmed. And that's what we can't afford. And in any case, what we have to achieve is that all the public resources at the country's disposal can be made available to citizens to enable them to emerge from this economic, social and health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the words of the Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.151.0	Many thanks, president, deputies, deputy. I will not tire of every intervention to aggravate to the services of the chamber that facilitate us to bring to an end these inquiries and the debates of the plenary on hygiene and health security necessary at a time of pandemic. Let's start with one of the current, current, comments that Congressman Sanglas was putting on the table, which is the question of municipal novelists. Today, therefore, this debate in the Congress of Deputies is coming to an end and with the reshuffle of the validation of the royal decree, because I believe that the message is clear, and this is the message... What is the message that the Spanish Government should try to hear from today? That's not it; that dealing with and managing and regulating Romanesque assemblies without the assemblies, against the assemblies, is not the way; that the mayors and mayors of Catalonia, and also the arresters, have planted, have planted and said that these resources should be in the service of the veins and veins of their municipalities, of the struggle against the Covid, of the basic social needs, of the need for economic promotion, of the need to guarantee the public services that are facing the assemblies as the institution that they are, the first institution to which the city is directed before any problem that you have. Before any need, the first door to which is tricked is that of the joints. And those of us who have had the privilege and honor of being governors, mayors, governors, mayors of our municipalities know that. Therefore, the Spanish Government should be very clear that contrary to what the Minister of Hisenda said, that "there will not be a second opportunity, that its obligation is to re-establish on the table a new law that allows not the kidnapping of the Romanesque municipal residents of the country by the Government of the State, but that the assemblies can serve these students at a time of need, that the Romanesque residents are in the assembly, and that at a time like the present, when these needs exist, there is no sense that there is money in the bank and that they cannot touch. And I didn't have any sense that there was money in a current account of the Ministry of Heritage, on the bench, and that the joints couldn't touch it. So that you return the royal decree to the Ministry of History and that you present another one. And if there is to be a second opportunity, a second opportunity. But spoken, negotiated, with consent, not with imposition. And I think this is today's big message. He referred to the outcome of the 2008 crisis. And the deputy explained that we could not get out of it in the same way, with the logics of this austereness poorly understood, from these neoliberal receptions that at the end they said was: "The public spending has to be speeded up because it gives space to investment and private spending. And we saw that it wasn't until there was a proactive action by the European Central Bank, an action that also allowed the increase in public investment..., it didn't begin to emerge from the crisis. We are now facing a new crisis, but with the same legal architecture that the People's Party imposed during the previous crisis. Because a good part of the debate behind the royal decree on municipal novels is due to the lack of political will of the Spanish Government to modify the Law of Presuppositional Stability, which imposes a rule of expense that causes the joints to find with the paradox of having more tickets and that they can not spend them, because they have a topall of expense, of increase of expense, fixed unilaterally for the Ministry of Heritage. Therefore, precisely, it is necessary to address the question of the Romans again; to do it well, that it is possible to serve, not with a tripijoc of prestecs, that it is possible to serve. And I want to address the reform of the Presuppositional Stabilisation Act, especially at a time when the European institutions – the Commission, the Eurogroup – have said: "We are in a crisis situation, and until this crisis situation is overcome, the objectives of stabilisation remain outstanding. It has all the logic, precisely to public institutions. Public administrations have to make this countercyclical role when the economy, the dynamics of family consumption, private investment, therefore, are backward, given the causes we know. It is public expenditure and public investment that must be balanced, and therefore precisely for this reason, that the reform of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, at a time when we are in crisis on crisis, in which the inequalities that had caused the 2008 crisis had not only not been overcome, but that they were marked by a trend of foundations, and we find ourselves with some nine economic and social consequences of the outpouring of activity that caused the Covid-19 pandemic. The fall in GDP to the euro area is expected to be 10.2_per_cent this year. In the case of Catalonia, we would be in these figures, if not major; probably major. You refer to the forecasts they made at the time during the month of April. We are preparing new ones, now that we are, too, collecting all the data on how the months of the strict post-containment have worked and, today, the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia has already made public, therefore, an estimate, beyond the forecasts announced a few weeks ago, of which has been the evolution of GDP at the hardest time of the confinement, which is the second quarter of the year, with a backlash of an annual 21.3_per_cent. Beyond GDP, which is a very important indicator..., but in the end this translates into difficulties in finding work; difficulties in maintaining work; difficulties for people who are in a situation of job insecurity and who are in chains of employment contracts, suddenly and again the chain is broken; difficulties for all the people who are in an ERTO and who, therefore, take less than their usual salary and often take ERTO late. And it is also difficult to say, therefore, that precisely this second quarter of the year the occupation has fallen a 5.9_per_cent year-on-year, the tourist tax has risen up to 12.8_per_cent. That someone could say: « Compared to other crises, it is not a high rate. But it is obvious that here there is a part that has remained very mild, that has remained, let's say, blocked, because it is all the time, the ERTOs, that do not compute within the rate of the time. So, what's important now? To extend the ERTOs until the beginning of the coming tourist season, until the month of April. Source: http://europa.eu.int/comm/comm/comm/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/index_en.htm That the payment of all the benefits that, at this time... I can hear the allure that there has been of petitions and that, therefore, there may be misfits. In the end, those of us who have a minimum management experience in the field of public administrations know that there may be some incidences that are predictable, but at this time they are no longer, no longer reasonable, no longer eligible. Therefore, it is necessary to pay the ERTOS that are due and also to give all the necessary strength to the vital minimum ingredient. What have we done since the generality of Catalonia? The strengthening of the health and care system, and we will continue to do so. And this late we begin a reinforcement plan in the area of primary education, which we will incorporate about two thousand professionals, and which by 2022 will reach about four thousand professionals in the area of primary education. Secondly, continue to protect the citizenry and the product fabric. And, obviously, also, the whole social sphere that is related, too, to the educational sphere. And, therefore, I want to take advantage of, too, to thank all the teachers, teachers, teachers, and professionals who are not teachers of the country's educational environment, of the public education system in Catalonia, for the effort they are making. This country has a repte for the coming week. We will obviously overcome the repte. Incidences we will manage, but this country is ready to return to school. From here, there are these questions of the short term visit of the own months, which are important; that we must be able to get to the middle of the year, so obviously with these protection measures – ERTOs, guaranteed citizenship and vital minimum inputs – unfolding. The maintenance of public services is essential, but it is also obvious that a strategy must be put into practice to raise the productive economy of this country again and to do so in a different way. And in this sense, the Government of Catalonia we have been, therefore, working in the Pla for economic recovery and social protection. Twenty large axes of strategic projects, divided into four areas: economy for life, digitalisation and reindustrialisation, green agenda and the whole area of the knowledge society. We have this opportunity: 750.000_million euros; 140.000 will go to the Spanish State – the majority..., we mean, half or a little more of the half, in loans; the rest, transfers–, and Catalonia must be. We have done this job, but we must continue to do it, and we must continue to do it by presenting the best projects; projects of excellence, which we must not only do from the Generality, which must involve civil society, and it will be involved. It will involve the companies and the product fabric, as well as the local administrations. And we have to do this, too, with an alliance and sharing projects with other European territories that would also bet on the very lives of reconstruction, of reconstruction of the political economy. Therefore, we have this great opportunity. We have a duty to present, as I said, the best projects. I am convinced that we will do so and I am also convinced that in this increase in public investment we will have the support of this Parliament and that now, after your intervention, I will be able to finish who the Government's proposals are in this area. Thank you, Mr President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.152.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.153.0	Thank you, Vice President. As he pointed out in the previous intervention, we wanted to link and we could not let go and follow, once more, the complaints and put emphasis from this Faristol in the situation of the assemblies. The assemblies, since the 2008 crisis, suffer from a follow-up of regulations that you mentioned in your intervention, that have restricted your ability to act, both from the economic point of view and from the organization, and even some feelings go further there and also from the political point of view..., that they have converted or that they want to convert the assemblies into simple gestures and avoid that they follow what we believe they are from the Republican Left: authentic local governments with the ability, that they must have the ability to compete, they must have the economic capacity and they must be able to manifest themselves politically on what they consider appropriate in representation and years of their citizenship. The last occurrence of the Spanish Government was this Royal Decree Law 27/2020, of 4 August, of extraordinary and urgent financial measures, applicable to local entities, which was dropped this media and left without effect. The government of the PSC-PSOE and Commons-We tried to force an agreement with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and so mismanagement of the same agreement..., that they would have to approve this agreement by the currents, almost in the morning and, let's say, treacherously, with the vote only..., it was possible to approve this agreement only with the quality vote of the president of the entity. A strange element in a municipalist entity that tries, or should attempt, applicate, let's say, plurality exists in the conjunction of the State, and they did not. They put this entity in the service of a government and it didn't work, because it was obvious. The model imposed was that these loans should be made to access an extraordinary fund of €5,000_million and, therefore, this limited the capacity of some joints to participate in it. We believe that this is not the way to act, we believe that this did not participate or did not allow the participation of some gatherings to attack the participation of some gatherings. I want to remind you that Lleida's Assembly, for example, has no Romans. By June 2019, this Assembly was governed by the Socialist Party and now the current managers..., Mr. Pueyo is obliged..., and could not access this 5,000-million-euro fund because of those who are now proposing this rule. Therefore, it seems to us tremendously unfair, because, in short, Lleida's Assembly and so many other gatherings that do not have access to the Romans also suffer or are patenting the effects of the Covid. Therefore, we believe that it is time, as the Vice-President pointed out, that the Spanish Government resubmitted a proposal. For many who have said that they will not resubmit a proposal, they will resubmit it, because there is no other way out. These 5,000_million euros have to be reversed directly over the local world, but they cannot be linked to a loan. We believe that the gatherings must be able to make free use of the surplus and the Romanesque. It's over that there's money in the country and that you can't just spend it on a series of super-limited investments that, in any case, have nothing to do with the outcome of the crisis. And we believe that the gatherings, taking into account the diversity of municipalities that we have in this country and the diversity of situations that exist in the gatherings, must be able to dispose of these resources to make those policies, let's say, economics that think convenient. It is not the same politics nor are the same solutions that must give a mountain assembly as a coastal assembly. Therefore, the gatherings, which are the most familiar with their social reality, must have and must be able to make those policies that think they are the most relevant. We also believe that we must allow debt to be used. There are joints that have managed well and have to be able to access the credit, they have to be able to borrow, there has to be no problem. The assemblies, like the Government of the Generality, must be able to make it difficult to manage or generate more resources for citizens and to pursue policies and attempt to attack the effects of the crisis. We also believe that another way would be to exempt from the compliment of the Presuppositional Enabling Law; therefore, this fourth point also we will pose on the table: exempt from the compliment of the Presuppositional Enabling Law for the years 2020 and 2021. Limitations, the benefits to public administrations of not being able to make a difference is a drama. Therefore, we believe that in this context these limitations must be brought to an end and the joints must be able to have this availability in order to be able to make it difficult. Because, in the end, it proved, and in the context of the crisis, the outcome of the crisis was so, that the assemblies were the first to be able to act on measures to prevent their finances from being touched. And, finally, one of the other items that there was and that went as a gift in this decree, and that someone said that from here they would lose these money, is the maintenance of the fund intended to cover the deficit of public transport. Public transportation is a tool that serves citizens, especially in this context; it is an element that needs to be enhanced, especially in the next few years. And we understand that there's no need to incorporate this foundation that should go to some cities, to place it in this area, and to accuse that these cities will not have access, let's say, to the resources to finance public transportation, because this decree has not been approved. In short, the Spanish Government's model of chanting respects the gatherings, it seems to us that it is not a waste and that, in any case, to which we place the Spanish Government is to be placed in a negotiating table with all the actors, with all the municipal world, and must have a rule that is useful for the conjunction of the gatherings. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.155.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, leave a point still, therefore, reinforcing what you were commenting on the issue of fiscal stability and local finances. Look, here, with the 2012 Presuppositional Enabling Law, the application of the spending rule, which was done was to force the joints to balance the assumptions, therefore, to the zero deficit, applying them to a spending rule that with this topall forced them to make de facto overcome so that in the conjunction this gives greater scope to the General Administration of the State and to Social Security to overcome their deficit objective. So, that Montoro law, right? , which applied the principle..., was the economic principle of Juan Palomo, I like it I eat it. I mean, he does the law to benefit himself. Now, this has to be abandoned. It has to be abandoned because it is that the repte we have before us, the repte not that we have before us, that we already have it here, that they are managing the joints, that they are managing..., the joints are facing, for example, the increase of demands in the field of social emergence. Here there are Members and Members who have responsibilities in the municipal sphere and know perfectly well how the requests for emergency aid have multiplied, how the requests have multiplied to access, for example, the Food Bank, the burden of solidarity... in these emergency measures. Therefore, in this context, we all add up and give room to all administrations so that they can put their share of the money or we won't get out of it. And that's the lesson they're supposed to learn from today. And this lesson should also be used to learn about the management of the European foundations that will come. And management must apply one of the elements that is intrinsic to the European project, which is the principle of subsidiarity: where it can be managed from closeness, from a close administration, it must not be managed from a higher administration. Therefore, the principles of subsidiarity, it managed to propitiate citizenship on the part of European foundations and, obviously, here is also the role of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And here it is also essential to ask the Government of the State to clarify procedures, procedures of application of these foundations – as it is fan, who can ask, when they can ask –; to clarify also that it is black on white on the criteria for assigning these resources. Obviously, there can be a territorial criterion, there can be a population criterion, a GDP criterion or a criterion, which seems to be what they want to do, announced to the conference of presidents but not developed in any standard, announced to the media but not explained elsewhere, which is the criteria of competitiveness between projects, right? a competitive criteria between projects. Competitive criteria are fine depending on who the referee is. And, therefore, it must be ensured, obviously, that there will be no party interference or ideological interference from the point of view of which the funds have been allocated, to strengthen more areas of the State than not others in this competitive dynamic. Therefore, this also needs to be clear. So, what do we have to do by the government of Catalonia to prepare for this? First of all, to make clear the strategy of the content; we have it: Economic reactivation and social protection plan, with the strategic axes, which directly point to a good part of the coincidence of the Next Generation EU plan, which the European Commission has done, which is the fundamental part, the basic part, of these European foundations. Therefore, it coincides with the lines. Second place, project excellence. And, therefore, we have drawn up a few paths, and here there are many people who can participate and, therefore, we will have to be accompanied, as I said, by local administrations. Even in some cases many of these projects the leadership will make it a local administration or a certain economic sector, and the government will be there to help you, participate-there. If it comes down, it's also a presuppositional contribution. Therefore, monitoring is essential. Terminus– the terms must be known – and criteria for allocation. I believe that this will be the economic battle of foundations that we will bring to an end in the next few months and the consequences from which they will not be exhausted only in the five years of the vigor of the European reactivation fund, the recovery fund, but they will go much further, because they will structurally transform our economy. And so I want to count, I think we have to count, I think it's a collective self-requirement, a job of the Catalan political forces, of the joint administration, of the Civil Society, and, obviously, with the Government of Catalonia, the first of all, putting on the scale to achieve the maximum of projects, to manage to convert this crisis into the terms of public investment in the opportunity for transformation, to the best, of course, of the productive structure of the country. We'll be there, we'll be there. And, therefore, we count on everyone to give us a hand. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.156.0	Thank you, Vice President. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We are waiting for the results of the telematic vote. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.157.0	Well, so-so. Now we have the results of the telematic vote and, therefore, we can proceed to the vote of face-to-face and delegated votes. I am sure that for this vote today 89 Members and Members have delegated their vote, 23 Members have joined the telematic vote and 22 will vote face-to-face. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Government's budgetary policy (continuation)]] [[302-00228/12]] Go ahead, then, and vote. And let's start with the fifteenth of the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the government on the presuppositional policy of the Generality. We begin by voting, following the separate vote that has been requested, points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These two points were approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting points 3, 4 and 5. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions, correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 130 votes in favour – 107 delegates and face-to-face correspondents, 23 telematics – against 4 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into economic management (continuation)]] [[302-00232/12]] We now vote on the seven-point order on the day, which corresponds to the motion subsequent to the government's inquiry into economic management. They attend to separate voting petitions, we will vote in the first place points 1 and 2 together. The vote begins. These two points have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against – correspondents to 46 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – and no abstention. We're voting points 3, 4 and 5. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – and 40 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the misinformation and lack of transparency in the Government's external action (continuation)]] [[302-0029/12]] We now vote on the agenda item, corresponding to the motion following the Government's inquiry into the misinformation and lack of transparency in the Generality's action abroad. They listen to requests for separate votes from parliamentary groups, we will vote in the first place point 1, letter to – point 1, letter to. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting point 1, letters b and c. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1, e-letters. The vote begins. Point 1, letters, was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we're voting point two, letters to c. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes in favour, 43 against – correspondents to 10 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour, and 32 abstentions. (Founding voice) Excuse me? (Founding voice) I'm sorry, actually. I've said it wrong. There were 69 votes in favour, 33 against and 32 abstentions. I had said '43; there are 33 against. We're voting point two now, letter b. The vote begins. At this point there was a tie of 65 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – 4 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the... we're going back to voting, I'm sorry, this point, huh? , 2.b. The vote begins. The same was true: 65 in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, we will make a third vote at the end, with an extraordinary voting period. And now we're voting points 3 and 6. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. And we're voting point four now. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against – correspondents to 46 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – 8 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. And we're voting now for the seven of this young man. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of government's general policy (continuation)]] [[302-00230/12]] Let's now vote on the split of the order of the day, corresponding to the motion following the question to the Government on the balance of general government policy. And we will also do so with all the separate voting petitions that have been made by parliamentary groups. Let's start by voting point one, let's go. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – 40 abstentions. And we're voting now point 1, letter b. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 21 abstentions. We're voting point 1, letter d. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1, letters and e. The vote begins. At this point there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. We shall therefore proceed again to the vote on this item 1, letters and, in addition, to deal with item 3 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. At this point, a tie has been created again, so we will be voting again for an end. And we're voting now on point 2, letters to and b. The vote begins. This was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2, letter c. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. And we're voting now point 2, letter d. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2, letter g. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 5 votes in favour, 93 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting point two now, letters and f. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against, with no abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes to 77, with no abstentions. And we're voting now point 2, letter and, subpoints 1 and 2. The vote begins. This point was approved by 90 votes to 44, with no abstentions. We're voting point two now, and subpoint three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes to 4, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now point 2, letter and, subpoint 4. The vote begins. This point was approved by 73 votes to 12, with 49 abstentions. We're voting point two now, and subpoint five. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. And we're voting now point 2, letter and, subpoint 6. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Lleida's confinement and lower Segria (continuation)]] [[302-00231/12]] Let's now vote on the new point of the order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the government about the confinement of Lleida and the lower Segrià. Let's vote a few points separately, too. Let's start by voting 1 ter. The vote begins. This point was approved by 90 votes to 36, with 8 abstentions. We're voting points 1 bis and 1 quater now. The vote begins. These points have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. And now we're voting the rest of point 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We now vote on points 2 and 6a. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against, no abstentions. We're voting now for the 11-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting point 11. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. And we're voting now, finally, the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of this motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy (continuation)]] [[302-00233/12]] And now we are voting for the motion following the government's inquiry into industrial policy, and we will also be paying attention to the separate votes that have been called for. Therefore, we start by voting points 2.1, letter b, and 2.2, letter e. The vote begins. These points were approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point 2.1 now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of point 2.2 now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting the rest of point two now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of this motion. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We are now opening a period of two minutes to be able to vote on the two points in which a drawbar has occurred. So, let's do a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-10-6002.158.0	They're going to vote... [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the misinformation and lack of transparency in the Government's external action (continuation)]] [[302-0029/12]] ... these two points in which there has been a double bond, which correspond to point 2, letter b, of the Ministry following the question to the Government about the misinformation and lack of transparency in the performance of the Generality abroad. Point 2, letter b, of this young man. Put your vote on. The vote begins. The same tie has happened again, that is, 65 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – 4 abstentions. Therefore, this point declines, to occur again this bond. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of government's general policy (continuation)]] [[302-00230/12]] And let's now vote on the other point where there was also a tie, which is the point 1, letters and e, of the motion following the question to the Government on the balance of the general policy of the Government. The vote begins. In this case, there was also the same tie, that is, 65 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face, and 23 telematics – 4 abstentions. Therefore, this point also declines, when the third tie occurs. There are no more points to vote. The session's up. Many thanks and happy Diada. The session rises to six in the late afternoon and three minutes.
