ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.1.0	Good morning. MPs, MPs... we'll start the session. [[Condol demonstration for the victims of the Covid-19]] Before, however, and as we have already done in the past plenary, I propose to silence them for a minute in record of all the victims of this pandemic and to accompany all their family members. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. Let's start the session. Questions to answer orally keep them in the file. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. In the first place, the adventurous ones, also that for this plenary session they have delegated their vote eighty-seven deputies and deputies; twenty-four deputies and deputies have joined the telematic vote, and twenty-three will vote face-to-face. I recall that, to issue the vote in a telematic way for the votes scheduled for this morning, the term will end thirty minutes before the suspension of the session at this noon, is to say, at one and twenty, approximately. For the votes scheduled for this late, the deadline for issuing the telematic vote will also end thirty minutes before the end of the session. I would also like to point out that, in closing the questions with an oral answer to the Government and the President of the Generality, he will read out the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the challenges of the Catalan society before the crisis generated by Covid-19, which has been signed by all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. At midday, before suspending the session, he will give reading to the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on corruption in Catalonia. And at the end of the afternoon, in resumed session, he will give reading to the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biology. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Before proceeding with the order of the day, allow me to inform you that, in compliment of that which establishes the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of the year there have been 258 people dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the priorities of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency in the fight against Covid-19 and social and economic reconstruction]] [[310-00324/12]] Let's move on, now, to ask the government. The first question is about the priorities of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency in the fight against the Covid-19 and social and economic reconstruction. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, what are your priorities, from your department, in the fight against the Covid-19 and its consequences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word the counselor has. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.4.0	Good morning, President; thank you. MPs, MPs, MPs Serrano, since the first moment of this pandemic, the priorities of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency have been five, and have been very clear. A first priority has been to meet all the Catalans who find themselves in a complicated situation outside our country. A _second priority, collect the good practices due to term for other countries around the world and implement them here, to our country. Explain to us, as the government of the Generality, everything we've done to overcome this pandemic. For another band, open all the data. And finally, to lead this process of reflection that will obviously warm us up in this post-Covid that is presented from then on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.6.0	Thank you, President. Councillor has certainly put forward very interesting proposals, which he says he has done or surely intends to do in the future, but you know, Councillor, I sincerely believe that we could do all this perfectly from Catalonia and save us, at these difficult times, the cost of his advice and be able to devote it to the fight against the Covid-19 and its consequences. And I'm gonna try to justify it. Look, you, first of all, are the Transparency Advisor. It is not necessary to remind you of the reasons why you take up office, to conclude that transparency could certainly be better carried out in any other department than in yours and, therefore, be able to dispense with this area in your office. On the other hand, you are also an institutional relations advisor, an area totally unnecessary in your office, because everyone knows that the institutional relations of the Generalitat are carried by Mr Puigdemont from Waterloo. And finally, you're also a Foreign Action Advisor, an area that involves an unnecessary and expensive structure on the outside, and much more right now. Do you want me to tell you the true and only measure you have taken since you became a counselor? Appointing an deputy to the delegate of the Generalitat in Brussels. That remains his priority; that is, the opposite of what he should be doing. You not only do not free up spending, so that you can go to other areas much more needed right now, but you generate more superfluous spending. Curious way to take action against the Covid-19 and its consequences. You, in your appearance before the Committee on External Action on the occasion of your appointment, told us that the delegates abroad had been decisive so that many Catalans abroad could return to Catalonia during these complex days. That is why his words seemed to me to understand him that the delegates abroad had developed a kind of special skill in the management of flight seekers to find air transport to these Catalans abroad, because everyone knows that, beyond this, they have no competence attributed to them, as it corresponds to Spanish diplomacy. I therefore believe that this very important function could be developed from Catalonia and we could also save the external costs of these delegates. Look, Mr. Solé, I'm sure you were very excited to be a Foreign Action Advisor, but right now it can't be, because there are other priorities. Therefore, take advantage of the frank and sincere relationship that exists between the two members of the Government and that everyone can verify, and he tells Mr. Torra to dispense with his advice; to devote the latter's resources to the fight against the Covid-19 and its consequences, which is surely the best role he can play as an adviser to Catalonia at this time. Marry me, you won't regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.7.0	To answer the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.8.0	Miri, Congressman, if I may, I'll give you a thought. It is obvious that the current model is a model that has become obsolete, and therefore, in the next few days, in the next few months we will have a great reflection on how we face this post-Covid. And it's obvious that at this new stage, the Department of Foreign Affairs wants to have a moving paper. Because it is also obvious that we want to build this future for a more just country, for a more supportive country, for a more sustainable country and above all, and as you said, for a more free country of corruption. But also to fight against all the authoritarianisms that at these times are emerging to different places in the world. We, from the Department of Foreign Affairs, from the Government of the Generality, will continue to explain ourselves; we will continue to explain ourselves where you need it, from the world. And we'll do it through the delegations. Because we want to connect to the world. We don't just want it, we just need it; the country needs to be connected to the world. And we also want to be, we want to become the reference of our Catalans. And I'm not saying, that's what the 2,500 Catalans who have been here these days through the Emergence Service and our fifteen delegations say. But so do the same Catalans here in the country. Because, if you remember correctly, 70 percent of Catalans, through a CEO's survey, say they consider this network of delegations necessary. And that was before the crisis; therefore, I don't want to imagine what I would say at this time. Anyway, I'm offering you a treat. I, if you will, will contact some of these 2,500 Catalans who have been able to return to our country and ask them exactly what the function of the Department of Foreign Affairs was. And, if from here his speech continues to feel the same, it is obvious that you have no interest in what our Catalans really need, but his interest is merely a political interest and merely of his party. And, unfortunately, that's what we're used to. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question about your position in relation to the role of digital policies in economic recovery]] [[310-00327/12]] The next question is about the position in relation to the role of digital policies in economic recovery. And the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Lluís Guinó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.10.0	Thank you, President. Adviser, Counsellor, Vice-President, President of the Generality, the need for an economic and social recovery plan for this country is unquestionable, it is absolutely necessary. A great deal of cross-cutting action has to be taken, but my question is directly linked to his department, which has to do with digital policies, for one band, and with all the development of what the digital economy is, for the other. In the context of what are the most prominent actions of the past time that have a direct relationship with the policies of your department, we talk about expansion and installation of optical fiber apart from our country that has had more difficulty in connection and interconnection: areas such as Solsones, Moianes, Pallars will take time... All these policies, which are even more in the country we live in, which is basically an issue of emergence, and as a result of the Generality's decree that allows these measures and public works of emergence to be pulled forward, have been from this point of view well-established throughout the territory and beyond. There is also another aspect, which is the optical fiber cable, which will come from France and connect Europe with Africa, which gives the country a potential from this point of view, a path of motorway, not physical, but technological, which gives a lot of opportunities not only to the department to develop policies, but also from the more private perspective that allows to develop this new... somehow, this new area of digital economy that we need to develop among all, from the public perspective and from the private perspective. And in the end, a very important issue is that we must continue to develop policies that place Barcelona and Catalonia at the centre of technology at the global level and maintain, we understand, the Mobile and these fibers that have an important added value. One time he said all this, and setting up a little structure and strategy from his department, we wanted to know how, somehow, from now on, his concrete department these measures and what role the Digital Policy Department will play in the economic and social recovery that this country so much needs. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.12.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Deputy, from the Department of Digital Policies already, say, from the first day, we put ourselves to work in economic recovery, as a result of this health crisis that we are experiencing. We've had three priorities, haven't we? The first was, obviously, that the country's gangs couldn't handle it, huh? , and allow, therefore, that no one is left without the internet, that connectivity arrived at all. And that's why we've also accelerated the number of jobs we had in the forecast and some in the march, so that optical fiber, therefore, reached all the capitals of the region not by the year 2021, but it did arrive already, in this first half of 2020. That's why some of the works you've been talking about, huh? , to connect the Solsonès, to connect the Pallars Sobirá, to connect comarques that need this connectivity, so they are already on the way. The second priority has been that it is not the Generality, that it is not the Administration. And, therefore, to put all the workers of the Generality to give the possibility to continue exercising their responsibility, in this case using teletreball. And here we made a very important pocket to enable, huh? , the teletreball tools, which some of us already had in pilot phase, because I want to remember that three departments of the Generality since the month of generation had already been enabled to teletreball; in this case, in my department, to the Vice Presidency and Economy and that of Justice, because we moved to the administrative district. And, therefore, this was on the march, and in this sense what we have to do is extend it to the rest of the departments. And finally, the third priority: to minimize the economic impact and, therefore, to reactivate the economy. Here was a very important decision to make. I don't know if you'll remember, MPs and MPs, that the 11th of February was the decision that Mobile is canceled. The 11th of February, huh? ; look, there was no case even in Catalonia of coronavirus, I seem that Italy was all there was, and therefore, at that time, that was a decision that was a point criticized by some sectors, but I think that now, seen in perspective, it was a uncertain decision. And in this sense, the first one we've done has kept us working. The same president of the Generality summoned all the economic and social actors of the country to the Palau of the Generality to make the Mobile not just, say, stay, because it could be at risk, but we have managed to extend one year the contract of this event, which is the most important technological and business event of the world. And finally – I don't have time – about the initiative of the subsea cable, in any case, I'll have another day more time to explain it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about its position in relation to the situation of the Catalan product fabric]] [[310-00328/12]] The next question is about the position with regard to the situation of the Catalan product texture. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Elsa Artadi's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.14.0	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Glad to be able to greet you in person again. Today we want to talk about industry, about this engine that has always followed the growth in Catalonia. Today it already represents more than 21_percent of our GDP, in the line of European recommendations, generating stable jobs, quality, also activating, right? , of the sectors surrounding it. And in the industry I believe that in Catalonia automobiles have also been a great example, today with more than 10 % of GDP, 143,000 jobs in our home. An industry, the automotive sector, which faces a new paradigm, a new paradigm of mobility, connectivity, sustainability, and which needs to adapt and transform into these nine consumption stages, because it really follows a future sector at home. The Covid is certainly not helping. More than 25_percent of the ERTOs in our home are in the automotive sector. And they are at a time when they are taking – and we know – very delicate decisions about plants in Catalonia that generate thousands and thousands of jobs, both direct and indirect. We understand that it is a time to work seriously because it can be done, so statements like we signed all 5 March in this very Parliament. We understand that it is also a time to take away irresponsible statements, as has been done for some members of the Barcelona Assembly wishing to be a non-reactive sector. I think we need to get away from this absolutely, that it doesn't help our reputation at home. And it's that today, really, we're worried about the Nissan situation, we're worried about what was published to the Japanese press, we're worried because it's a company that precisely aggregates and leads a good part of the sector in Catalonia. We understand, she advises, that you are exercising the leadership that surrounds you and that, moreover, you are defunct scenes and photographs of the past time that they could be stars. We understand that you have worked for months and months to find so many solutions for the company as well, so work a consensus position of all institutions and you can have a joint response. We know that I've been talking to both the company and Japan, as well as the business committee here, the unions, and the rest of the administration. And that's why we're asking him today that he can share... that he gives us all the information he can share in this room about the situation across Nissan and its plants in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.16.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...speaker. She's happy to take us all back after so many days. Obviously, the automotive sector is one of the pillars for our industry. And we didn't just defend it from the department, but also the president to the head of our government, and we've also seen these last few days, the same vice president, as did the approaches and strategies that we've designed since the Enterprise Department. Therefore, full consensus in the defence of this productive sector, which you have said represents – you said, MP – more than 143,000 places of work. A sector that we know very well, especially after the analysis that has been made from the Department of Industry to more than eighty-four subsystems that integrate the chain of sub-administration of the automotive sector. And, as you pointed out, a sector under a very rapid transformation. The Parliament itself asked the Government to present a strategic plan, and the Department did its dues, presented the month of feverish this program of support to the mobility and automotive industry, with more than forty-four measures. And, if from the department we are already pushing a lot of plans that we can't stop supporting the sector, we estimated that for this year's caldron approximately 20_million euros to bring forward these planned actions. Precisely from the department we will take this commission, therefore, for economic recovery and social protection which are a set of measures. We will see, we will examine its possible financing, because, as I said, we know the sector, we know the diagnosis, and we will need to work to provide it with resources, through government, through ministry, through European Union, that drive this sector. As far as Nissan is concerned, they know that from the first moment we entered the office we have been busy having a regular interview with the company. We have also aspired to encourage investment. The proof is the government's agreement for that support to the painting plant. I myself visited Japan's plant in November. And from the ministry's hand, we also presented a competitiveness plan to the sector. A week ago I met with the European chair, and on all these occasions we have the same answer: there are still no decisions taken, and on the 28th he will find out what the economic situation of the sector is. We know and have identified the difficulties of the sector and the plant and the company. And we ask, ask Nissan a clear and honest answer to this plan presented; that it is not precipitated in his decisions. We don't take the towel off and think we're still...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Ask the Government about its position in relation to the green agenda as the key factor for economic recovery]] [[Tram. 310-00329/12]] The next question is related to the green agenda as the key factor for economic recovery. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.18.0	Counsellor Calvet, Members of Parliament, President, good morning. The Covid puts us in a game table that has two superposed and connected heads. One is repair or rehabilitation, protecting and saving immediate things, protecting people, saving jobs and saving the economy; there are no other ways. And a second layer, which is connected to it, which is the construction of futures, as President Torra quite rightly says; and the Department of Territory and Sustainability, obviously, there is a cabdal paper, in this construction of futures. I insist, from now on and in these very months, on the idea of saving people, saving places of work, saving the economy, we will have to know how to fit into the need to think, draw and project horizons. These two speeds, these two emergencies, must cohabit, the short and the medium term. And the government and the country have to find, we have to find the balance between solving the urgency and hearing that the future we have to deal with from you, knowing that we are ahead of a surviving transformation. We are convinced advocates of transformation. But, it's true, Covid-19 has transformed us without asking permission. But now that we are, counselor, out of this transformation, we need – because we can get out – a fairer society, a new territorial rebalancing of the country, a rebalancing of opportunities and of life, and another very interesting opportunity will come out: the possibility of putting technology through the thirst for a new humanism. Ladies and gentlemen, we must build a country to the measure of man. This new relationship between technology and territory and the country will make us stronger, even though today, full in recovery, it is true, we can imagine this horizon. But, Counselor, this opportunity for territorial balance also comes to value the government's green agenda. Green is not a whim or a fashion; we need to place green as an important and positive element. Counselor, as well as the Covid, did the Government of Catalonia maintain its commitment to the green agenda? What kind of paper is public transportation going to play? Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, President, Councillors, very pleased to be able to bring them back into this gradual decontainment and this new normality. Congressman, health emergency, yes, terrible. And behind the emergence of health care, educational emergence or cultural emergence. And for this economic revival and social protection, but also climate emergence. We cannot forget that we are, and so we have declared, in climate emergency. Climate change, climate emergence affecting the natural environment and biodiversity, degradation of the natural environment and loss of biodiversity. And this is a threat to the salvation of people and to the welfare of society, to the salvation of people and to the welfare of society. Health emergency, therefore, yes, terrible, climate emergency: the egg or the chicken, the chicken or the egg. Therefore, economic recovery and social protection oriented, as you said, to the green agenda, because we need to rectify. A country is obviously its people, its associated fabric, its business environment, its cultural creation – that's what we've said many times – but it's also its natural environment, and it's also its biodiversity. And this element has sometimes not been taken into account enough; not now, decades ago, and not only in Catalonia, but at all. And that's why we're ahead of a global repte that needs to be very clear and that needs to be maintained. It is up to us to contribute to this global challenge in our territories. So far there have been a lot of warnings, but I think that honestly consciousness is already quite general as to why we can act with more determination. After that our well-being, our salvation, our economy, in short... we are more dependent than we thought. Therefore, economic recovery, social protection; social protection, economic recovery oriented to the green agenda, aligned with the European green agenda, the European Green Deal. Energy transition, decarbonization of mobility, and here comes public transport, and circular economy. This is why a green agenda group has been set up in the committee for economic recovery and social protection, which will enter into various programmes that we are going to degregate over the next few weeks and months: an administrative agility programme, an urban renewal programme, a sustainable public work programme, in which public transport, a green infrastructure programme, programmes that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.21.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.22.0	...accelerate the levers... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.23.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the decontainment of active employment policies]] [[310-00330/12]] The next question is about the decontainment of active employment policies. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.24.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to show all the support and scale to all the victims of the Covid, to their relatives, and also to the one you're on the first line. Good morning, everybody. Counselor El Homrani, the emergence and the health crisis has impacted very strongly in the day-to-day of all people, but the outdated generalization of economic activity has assumed that many people have been asked for an ERTO or have lost their jobs. The autonomes and the small trade have remained completely untouched, without entrances but with expenses. And this is a very difficult situation to overcome with guarantees. Nor do we want unemployment to increase in those most precarious communities, such as young people, people with disabilities or functional diversity, people who are migrating and women. Before the pandemic, we were just getting out of a past economic crisis that was oblivious to a lot of people, but we didn't get out of it the same way we got in, and we can't allow it to make the same mistakes again. Then priority was given to rescuing banks and big oligopolises, in accounts of thinking about the welfare of people. Now it's time to put life in the centre and prevent a possible economic crisis from impacting and falling back on the usual, as it did with the 2008 austerity policies. Counselor, we are very concerned about people's labor rights, and we are also concerned that today many Catalans and Catalans have not received the benefit they receive. We think the State isn't doing things right and it's late. The SEPE is overflowing, has a stack of unsolved accumulated expedients, and this affects the performance that citizens and citizens have to pay and the progressives decontain and reintegrate into their workspaces. Besides, I understand that you've got your hands on them, but you haven't got a response. And not to speak of the help of the state to the autonomies, which are minses, and those which must be directed towards the most precarious collectivities, which are non-existent. Moreover, the State still scans more the Generality with a disproportionate measure of this 55_percent of active employment policies, which will impact very negatively on the working people and which will get them into employment. Before this situation, counselor, we would like to know how government, although they don't have the skills and today they don't want to return to it, they can handle this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, there is the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.26.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I think we are all aware that one of the most complex situations we are living and living in our own months and in our own year is in the realm of the world of work; we are all aware. We are all aware of the effect of the Covid-19 health crisis, with post-Covid, and the effect it will have, that it is already having in the world of work. And this requires two types of policies, because, if not, it has an old look: passive labour policies, all that are performance, but essentially for empowerment, for follow-up, for ability to act on the world of work, active employment policies. And I think it was a completely wrong decision that, in order to finance passive policies, it is responsive to active policies. It's a completely wrong decision, and we hope it's correct, because they're key, and because, as they're key, it's the first element we've wanted to break down. Because it is absolutely necessary, because it takes over, because it gives paper to locals, social and economic agents, businesses and workers at the time of being able to give a much more than passive response in the world of work, to take over and give concrete answers. That's why in the decontainment of active policies we started for three areas, very concrete. I support the locals, because we need a map, because this country is diverse territorially and must be able to act locally. Second, I support the most vulnerable people, those who have lost their jobs – because it was not forbidden to join – because of this situation; plans of occupation. Thirdly, I support micro-enterprise, that productive enterprise which is not speculative, that enterprise which is in the territory, and I support clearly lines of support for joint projects, for cooperation in all that is digitisation and lines of economic support. The other area we have delimited, an area that concerns us: the rights of disabled people's jobs; 75_million to be able to cope with this. Why? Because the ninety-four ERTOS that have presented themselves in special work centers are not converted into EROs, which is the concern we all need to have. I say again: there's a chance to come back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.27.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.28.0	...to the active employment policies that they do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.29.0	...time is running out. Thank you. [[Asks the Government about measures to address the economic and social crises caused by the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00331/12]] The next question is about measures to address the economic and social crises caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.30.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, this week, one look, two years back: the then president of the Spanish State, Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, made a turn of one hundred and forty degrees and embraced austerity as a response to the economic crisis. May 12, 2010: Announced the retaliation of the functional sound of a 5_per_cent, the suppression of the sec nado and a couple of scissors to help them to depend. We still feel today the impact of that turn of Keynesianism possibly little thought strategically to the austerity that still today appears to be inscribed in the DNA of the 78th Regime. Ah! Yes, it always austere for itself and prospered for the reduced circle of privileges, which, yes, is perpetually transcending political mandates. In times of crisis, the PSOE has become accustomed to moving away from the transformative left and is converted into the front of the status quo. He did so two years ago with Zapatero's rectification; October 16th, when the PSOE promoted Rajoy's second term, and again April 19th, when he risked the country's stability in some nine elections. And already in the immediate, we have seen it two days ago, when obliving the demand for who voted PSOE - PSC – a clear "with Rivera no", and with the visit of its members to the government, Podemos, they have aspired to agree centralization and authoritarianism with Ciutadan and refused to negotiate decentralization and work reconciliation measures. We are back at the door of a period of uncertainty, a shock caused by the impact of the Covid-19. We cannot let this pandemic serve to consolidate an unequal society and economy. This historic moment has only one solution: lead, reverse and ensure that no one is left behind. That is why, Vice-President, we thank him for the clarity with which he expressed himself in this sense. There is no margin for doubt: no, we do not want to return to the new normality understood as returning to where we were before. It's time to learn from past mistakes and break schemes, be brave and tackle structural inequalities, and take advantage of this crisis to get it out as a welfare society. The indecision, the detail, it's not our full route, it can't be the full route of the reconstruction. A full route that needs to be opened, because we have to do it among all, but that requires firm leadership, will be and adult and, above all, feminist. That's why we're asking you, Vice President, where do we start?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.31.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.32.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President of the Generalitat... Deputy, let's start by making it clear: the Government of the Generalitat will not make any detailed assumptions. Now exactly what we have to do is all the opposite: it is to deploy the presupposition approved for this Parliament as much as possible. It is necessary to do everything against what was done two years ago, with the crisis from 2008 to 2013, in which austerity measures were imposed. Our priority – our priority – in these past weeks has been nothing but to deal with the health crisis, and above all to mitigate the most immediate socio-economic impact – more immediately –, to save lives and protect the population. And for this reason we have taken steps to facilitate the liquidity of workers, families and businesses, precisely because at these times of difficulty, when the payment of ERTOs does not come up, when the billing does not come in, when the autonomies see their activity down and when the workers cannot enter their place of work because of the confinement, so that the liquidity is in the hands of entrepreneurs, families and workers. But we also need to think about which country is to rebuild, which does not mean to do the same thing we did before, but to build a new country, socially just, economically planned, and also with a clear vision of gender equity. Because the confinement has lived in very different ways. It's not the same a confinement..., it's not the same as having suffered, so the consequences of the coronavirus depending on the gene, depending on who takes the charge of cure; it's not the same either as housing conditions or income. And that's the reality. Therefore, I would like to make a fair exit to this situation. For this reason, since the Government of Catalonia, we have promoted the committee for economic recovery and social protection, and we will have a plan of country that we can, therefore, work with the pool of social agents; also, obviously, with parliamentary groups, administrations and with all the talent of the country. And at the end of July we will have clear who these economic axes of reconstruction of the future are. Because we must also think not only of these emergencies of the moment, which are absolutely necessary, but also of the construction of the future, which, obviously, from my point of view, must continue to bet on Agenda 2030, and therefore also on the commitment of Catalonia to global challenges. That is why we will need a constructive attitude and resources, resources that we will not fail to demand from the State and Europe. Now is the time for accountability, and accountability is precisely these expansive policies, because we cannot allow anyone to stand back. And the Government of Catalonia will work because no Catalan is left behind, no Catalan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.33.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the economic situation for the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[310-00334/12]] The next question is about the economic situation for the crisis of the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.34.0	President... Mr Aragonès, we are experiencing a cruel health crisis that results in one economic and one social crisis. That is why I ask you: why at this point in the crisis has not already implemented a serious shock plan to inject liquidity into the self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.35.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, in the first place I wish that both you and, therefore, all your fellow people, and also all the deputies of your group, are perfectly healthy, and I welcome the reinstatement of Mr. Carrizosa to continue discussing and facing us dialectically. In any case, we have acted since the first moment. And from the first moment, in fact on March 12, before the closure of the schools, the Government of Catalonia has already promoted a decree law for such, therefore, to set aside a fund of 1,000_million euros of liquidity to companies, 300 via downstream, 700 via direct credit, which is unfolding properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.37.0	To ask the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.38.0	Look, Mr Aragonès, I have to remind you that you manage a budget of over 30,000 million euros, and saving lives is the priority, but we also have a duty to save jobs. And you, Mr Aragonès, have been completely paralysed for more than two months, more than two months lost, without modifying budgets that are useless, that are not useful in this pandemic. We are told by all the economic and social actors with whom we have met, and I can assure you that there are many. A short time ago you were getting your chest off while the Catalan economy went well thanks to the effort and sacrifice of our self-employed and businesses. He took out his chest while his government kept putting sticks on the wheels despite all our warnings: impositions, bureaucracy... They even had the defachability to frivolize with what they called « country twilights or « cuts of the Meridian,» he remembered. But what are you going to do now? It no longer works to blame an outside enemy. Now you have to face reality. Now, Mr. Aragonès, you have to manage. The municipalities are reorganizing their budgets, with the help of Citizens, to allocate resources to the economic and social crisis. And while the citizenry suffers, you boast of unserviceable budgets. You will have to explain to the Catalan families why you have not reorganized or released a single euro from your own department; a department that did have time to approve a 30_per_cent increase in senior positions. You will have to explain to Catalan families why while small business, catering, hospitality and tourism agonize you don't put in place a shock plan to inject liquidity; because not billing a_euro while collecting receipts at the end of the month is inconsumable. Think that all he's done is raise the tourist rate, to finish sinking them. And you will also have to explain, also, why Nissan proposes closing its plants with more than 23,000 jobs at risk and you don't even devote budget to innovation. You will have to explain to Catalan families why you only dedicate to the Enterprise Department a small 0.7_per_cent of the entire budget. And all I see is that you're still happy to know yourself for having approved budgets that are wet paper. Mr Aragonès, stop congratulating yourself on useless accounts in the face of this crisis, stop thinking about the elections and start thinking once and for all about the workers, the self-employed, the SMEs and the companies that are losing everything. Come to me, Mr. Aragonese, start thinking about all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.39.0	To answer again, you have the word to the Vice President of the Government. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.40.0	The Government of Catalonia promoted liquidity measures, as I explained before, before the Spanish Government. In fact, it was the first of all the governments of the State – also of those who participated in it – that promoted measures of this type. So, miri, yes, we had to approve assumptions, it was absolutely necessary to approve assumptions. How do you want to manage this crisis? With a presupposition extension of 2017? With a presupposition extension of 2017 or with a presupposition of 2020? , that it is obvious that each department re-invests its expenditure, as is being done, as we are doing, thus transforming lines of subsidies that were promoted in the field of tourism, for example, to support tourism enterprises. But it was absolutely necessary. And I reiterate: yes, it is impossible to manage a crisis like this with assumptions, not three months back, but three years back, which was the alternative that you proposed. Absolutely wrong and absolutely unruly, she decided, in the midst of the pandemic, to delay a_me approval of assumptions because she knew that the Board of State Guarantees would not give her the reason. And he didn't give them the reason. And this Parliament approved its premise, as it played. And obviously we need more resources. But the receipt is not hers; that she receives what she asks is to reduce the expense of the departments. We won't be spending on the departments. Let's go and claim the money there where it plays, and there where it is where it mostly returns it, where it marks the debt policies and, obviously, where it talks to the European institutions..., which is the Government of the State. And that's why a sum of EUR 16,000_million was set aside, on behalf of the Government of the State, which will arrive in Catalonia. And it was also thanks to the pressure, insistence and compromise of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Obviously, these resources, together with others to come, must serve as a response to the social and economic emergence that we have. This is not the time for detail. They won't find us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.41.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about its position in relation to the health management of the Covid-19]] [[310-00332/12]] The next question is about the government's position in relation to the health management of Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.42.0	Good morning, President. He will advise, with the relief for the last dates of health and with the recovery of parliamentary activity, we hope to be able to analyze the management of the pandemic, talk about prevention, approach of post-Covid and health, social and economic reconstruction. There will be a need for an agreement that strengthens a health system that we want primarily public, a system that has been as praised as detailed, and a reconstruction that will have to contemplate the most resources in health and professional empowerment and recognition. We've been clapping hard for weeks at eight. Today we want to talk about professionals, about the more than one thousand people who have been infected, so many because there was a lack of protective equipment, and they have to go back to work without proof. We want to talk about heroes who don't want to be, professional praises, and also a lot of detail, who want to move from applause to recognition. Counsel, we would like to know with how many professionals will strengthen and increase the primary, how many of those who have joined these days will take place, if they update the valuation of the jobs, if they will pay the debt with the professionals of 2013 and 2014, if the professionals of Siscat will charge 100_percent of the DPOs and return them the 5_percent they still lose, and what institutional initiatives there is to support and help the professionals affected or dead by Covid-19. And above all, counsel, what contingency plan do you have in mind to ensure the proper and continued rest of a exhausted staff who will possibly face a rebound? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.44.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. MPs, MPs, President, Vice President... So you're very right in one aspect; it's to say, in this crisis the professionals have donated everything they have, all of themselves, their knowledge, their professionalism and, obviously, with a change of turns, with a change in the way they work at all levels. And this is not only to be recognized, but also to be empowered and to take advantage of, therefore, these transformations that have brought us the crisis may be for the better professional, in the future, in the system of salvation of Catalonia. We also want a powerful Catalonian health care system, and with the dial, which I am sure we will continue, from that line that we started with the Professional Dialeg Forum, so we can obviously take advantage of this whole task and task. And we have all our structures working also for this recognition and this compensation of this task that they have to do, important and recognizable for society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.45.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.46.0	Thank you, Counselor. I'm not talking about compensation, nor are the professionals. Professional recognition went much further than compensation. The professional recognition went so as not to have the best professional – because we all know it – and highly skilled professionals, but that they are the lowest paid in Europe; it went so that the value of jobs that is done at all levels and at all scales has recognized the level of risk and has recognized all their rights. Listen, if even now the retailers, Mr. Mas, Mr. Mas-Colell and Mr. Ruiz, deny it and even recognize exactly what I said to him: that we have the best professionals and the worst paid. Perhaps it would be a moment not of a retribution, counsel, but of, beyond the forum...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.48.0	...start to set up the recognizance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.49.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.50.0	Well, precisely in all this, because training is important because our specialists, as well as the recognition of these professions that enter forcefully, therefore, remain present in the system. Therefore, boosting primary care also means much more resources, making it now truly a vertebrator of the system. It will be in this phase of epidemic management, which is not the most acute phase, but the primary care will already have and have this early detection capability, and so will manage the first contacts. This whole system makes us... and makes us think, therefore, that we will further strengthen our health system, and with the basis of this knowledge of the professionals. Also increasing the MIR seats, which we have already done, and more we will strengthen it, therefore, in the proper editions. And this bet we've already made, we've already started it, and we've even more started it with dialy, as well as entering the other health professions forcefully into our system. Therefore, to strengthen the system, I am not quite convinced that it will have the consent of all this Parliament, and more have suffered the epidemic of the Covid. I am not convinced that all of us will stay strong for this, that we will be able to finally end this time of retailing, that there are certainly some who are still present today in the demands of the professionals, who started them a government of the PSOE from the Spanish State, where also the governments, like that of the Government of Catalonia, were forced to make these 5_per_cent retailings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about measures to guarantee the social function of the school]] [[310-00325/12]] The next question is about measures to ensure the social function of the school. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, deputy Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Well, let's put it in the first place that we celebrate the reopening of educational centres and adopt the focus of emotional and tutorial follow-up that our group had claimed for this final course. We do not share the way it has been done, without sufficient dialogue and with excessive responsibility to the centres. We believe, on the other hand, that in order to reverse the inequalities generated during the warm confinement link this customized tutorial action with an education for the entire student, and this requires the direct involvement of his department. We believe, moreover, that it will be necessary to implement an educational framework to reverse these inequalities, starting with a diagnostic assessment of the situation at the course stage and continuing for specific actions at the centres of high educational complexity. In his plan to reopen centres, counselor, we have seen measures to adapt the school to the new reality of public health, but there are many open questions and we have not seen any measures to guarantee the quality of the education of our infants or measures to adapt course 20-21 to a new situation of school segregation. Guaranteeing all two things – the right to education and the right to salvation – will require, we understand, a reduction in rates, with space and more personal, as much teaching as specialized. And we're already telling him that if the new normality is to pass through the hybrid model that is insinuated in the plan, educational inequalities will continue to grow. Counselor, how will the Government of the Generality guarantee the right to education of all the students from September and, more concretely, what will be the increase in teaching to cope with this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.53.0	To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.54.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, we're at an educational emergence point, and I want the whole chamber to be clear, we're running out of health emergence at its peak, and we're going into various emergences. What will occupy us most of the population and what will occupy the entire society from September onwards is the emergence of education. Therefore, we are no longer talking about shoc plans, we cannot only talk about shoc plans; we need to talk about the assumption of the whole society that we are before an educational emergence. And this educational emergence has different fronts: one is space, the other is professional, the other is unequal. But he has one objective, which is the student, because we all have to work for the student. We'll do it with the maximum consent, if we can. But we have the obligation to guarantee the student – we have the obligation to guarantee the student – this right to education in this emergency situation. Therefore, what we will always do is pose before the interest of the student of any other kind of interest, legitimate. I have offered all parliamentary groups to talk about it; tomorrow we have a meeting to talk about it. Do they want truth? No, no; we must find the certain ones, and we must start by diagnosing the uncertainties, which are many, but surely we do not yet have all diagnoses. We're working here. Tomorrow we will work with you, with all the parliamentary groups, but we are all beginning to put ourselves at this stage: educational emergence, solutions of emergence, global solutions, community solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.55.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.56.0	He did not answer the specific question, and I find it difficult that these lifts could not be given a guide or percentage of what the increase of teachers and teachers needed to face this new reality will be. Counselor, we agree that as the country is ahead of an educational emergence, at which it will be very complex to do so, because, among other things, as with sanitation, the detail has left us in a very bad starting situation. We ask you to convince your government to take all the resources necessary to start this emergence, to prioritise the education of a generation of children and adolescents who, if not, can be severely affected by this crisis. The school fulfils a multiple social function: it has a compensatory function, it has a social function and it also has a family reconciliation function. Without a global presence and without sufficient teachers, we will not be able to guarantee any of these functions; we will not be able to guarantee, in the end, the right to education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.58.0	Thank you, President. Tomorrow, pre-registration ends. We'll start learning how many students we'll have in the public system and in the concerted system. Therefore, on Tuesday we can begin to value what you are asking me, the needy. Without knowing which students we have – we won't know until the end of the day – we can't really value the needy. They will, of course they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the completion date of the school year and the start date of the next course]] [[310-00326/12]] The next question is about the date of completion of the school year and the date of initiation of the proper course, formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, for the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.60.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, the proposal that was made public today has many shortcomings, which come from schools and families: more inequality among students, not solving family reconciliation, does not increase teaching and improve educational resources and spaces, and does not guarantee health measures and resources in schools. Cal conciliation, more teacher and more school resources and, above all, dialogue and consensus with the educational community and unions. I, look, I'm going to give you a few questions. Will your government guarantee family, work and school reconciliation so that the mother doesn't seem to lose her job or see her wages reduced because of the care of the children when they don't go to school? Will they do so in the case of the generality's functioning and of contracted and subcontracted enterprises? Will all children, especially if they are at risk of exclusion, of summer activities without restrictions for economic reasons or of territories? Will the working conditions of the faculty be one thousand? Before they were needed, and their presupposition, which they approved with the commons, does not contemplate them; they are now indispensable. Will plants and spaces increase? You'll name replacements? Will the centres be equipped with the necessary health care measures? Will they start a plan because the concerted schools are public and so attack school segregation in their run? Will they continue to rescue private schools with public money?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.62.0	Thank you, President. Member, if I answer all and each of the questions you have asked with the necessary materials, we will need two or three questions. In any case, I insist: measures of work and family reconciliation, not only can they be done by the Department of Education; not only. It doesn't have to, but it doesn't just have to. First measure: the permission paid, which President Torra has been constantly claiming from the Government of the State; it is the first. It's not the only one, it doesn't solve everything, but it's the first. Conciliation measures? The school has a community function, obviously, and it has a social function, obviously, and it has to complete it now in June, it has to start completing it in June, and it has to complete it in the summer, with the assemblies, with the Department of Work, with the needs of the students. And we've made a deal, because the schools will open up in June and they won't lock up – and they won't lock up anymore – because they'll be open all the time to the joints, the entities of the leurea, the cultural groups. Because school is community. The same way we ask the community to help us and our space women in September, we will give the space to the community in summer, because it is with this joint school and community work that we can carry out some of the personal and family damage that the crisis entails.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer it is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.64.0	Counselor, the Barcelona Education Consortium is recommending families that enroll their children in concerted schools to change allowances for free, including out-of-school students. Is that the path? For us, the proposal is to disconcert education and guarantee for everyone a public, free and equal education. And, above all, counselor, your government does not have a proposal that guarantees education and reconciliation. We demand from your government an urgent plan that guarantees equality in education and work reconciliation, without loss of jobs or tickets, for everyone. And we start with the officials of the Generality and the subcontractors. They have already unjustly carried the health emergency over the scales of the health workers. We're replacing you and your government to not now carry the educational emergence on the scales of families, students and teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.66.0	For what he does to the Barcelona Education Consortium, this same thing you have expressed as the employer of the concerta, the same as the complaint. And it is simply the application of the Pla de coc against segregation that the Barcelona Education Consortium approved, which has been published, which has been published legally and which indicates that families with special educational needs are initially – initially – depending on the territory and the offer, offered for a registration that they have right not to accept and to formulate their own. Someone understood this as an action in favor of the concerta, someone understood it as an action against the concerta. No, it's simply the Pla de scoc's application against segregation in Barcelona, which we agreed among all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the education system for the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[310-00333/12]] The next question is about the situation of the education system for the crisis of the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.68.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all those people who are working on the front line, and also to all the teachers, all the students and all the families who are taking the course forward in these very complicated circumstances. Without a doubt, education is one of the issues of greatest concern to families, especially when they think about the next course. Counselor, you have said that you want the course to be face-to-face, with students spread all over the city. But what will happen when you don't find the available spaces? How will they ensure that families can reconcile work with childcare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.70.0	Thank you, President. The Government's will – not the Department of Education: the Government's – is that all students every day wander around its center. How do we get it? Have we been able to get more ICUs? Have we been able to get more hospital beds? So we have to be able to find more space for education, we have to be. Who? The government. With who? With everyone – with everyone. I already had a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona and I said to them: "The business world must have space, too; let us give it to us – let us give it to us. And we have to get it. The Government; but among all. We won't tell a school: "Go look... No, no, the government has to get the space. Because we have to have the space, because we have to have all the students every day at all their school places. We've got to get it. Did we get it with the health emergency? We'll get to it with the emergence of education. Who? The rotating government, but all helping – all helping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.71.0	To answer you have a second return to the congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.72.0	For the time being, you have limited yourself to demanding conciliation measures from the Madrid Government, but what will happen when you do not find enough space, if you do not finally find them – because you have to consider that you may not find them – to ensure the reconciliation of work and family life? And, Mr. Counsellor, I recognize that the situation is really complicated, and that is why we from Citizens have been willing to cooperate from the very beginning, and I thank you for the working meetings you have convened. But you can't allude to a hybrid model when today many students still have no computer or internet access. And to that we have to add that many of the computers that the Generalitat has given up are from the centers, and they will have to return them. His Government must therefore commit itself to ensuring that all pupils would have their own facilities to ensure equal opportunity in the case of, for example, a new confinement. And, beyond the fact that the hybrid model makes conciliation very difficult, it is impossible for students with special educational needs and those who come from disadvantaged environments who can regularly follow the course, which further deepens the educational gap. And that's not how we can mortgage the future of our students. And more issues that concern families and professionals. What will happen to zero - to - six - year education? How will they ensure the safety of children and educators? What about special education? , that you didn't speak yesterday... Have you thought about specific measures for these centers? We have spent all these weeks meeting with members of the entire educational community, and I am sorry to tell you that everyone complains about the lack of contact with your department. Counselor, I ask you to listen to the professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.74.0	...that he listens to the families and that among all of us we can... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.76.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We already have a precedent, but I agree. In the final part also: 5,492 centers, 130,000 professional teachers, 1,600 students, who must want to say about 800,000 families... We listened very much. Have we listened to all of them? No, no, Is there anyone who feels not escorted? Sure – sure – but we've tried to listen to everyone. Is everyone thinking the same thing? Lucky for you, no. It is one of the virtues and difficulties of managing the education system – it is one of the virtues and one of the difficulties. Now, I'm going back to insist: we want to keep them all in one place... And zero-sis..., man, if anyone's ever put together mixed teaching so that some FP family can do something telematic..., I can assure them that zero-sis won't do anything telematic. And zero will be prioritized in the search for space, it's obvious – it's obvious. And, therefore, this is an indisputable compromise. And mixed education will only be done in those studies in which it can be done and when there is no more remodeling...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.77.0	Thank you, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.78.0	...but we want there to be other relays before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.79.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the campaign to attract tourists from other territories of the State to Catalonia]] [[317-00190/12]] After the control session with the Government, we now turn to the questions to the President of the Generality. And in the first place he asks a question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.80.0	Thank you, President. The Catalan Tourist Agency has announced in June a campaign to promote national tourism, from the rest of Spain. Would you appreciate it, Mr. Torra?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.81.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.82.0	Yeah, good morning. I'll do it immediately, but let's get started... There have been many condolences today, I would like to make one concrete, because this morning we heard the news of the death of Mr. Lluís Juste de Nin, great and magnificent illustrator and designer, great patriot and wrestler. I'd simply like to send my condol, and I think on behalf of the whole chamber, then, to his family. Now, once you've finished, then, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.83.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.84.0	Thank you very much. From the very moment that I read that the Government of Catalonia was going to promote a tourist campaign with the aim – I quote textually – of strengthening emotional ties with the rest of the Spaniards, I could not avoid – the mind is treacherous – to think of you, Mr. Torra. I immediately became curious: how will Quim Torra strengthen emotional ties with the rest of the Spaniards? What kind of dressings will you give us on this occasion? "Welcome ñordos, welcome colonos, Spain no longer steals from us, Spain no longer kills us. Is that what you're talking about? In any case, while we wait for the content, impatient, of the campaign, to say that welcome, welcome even though it took so long to understand the enormous importance that the rest of Spain has for Catalonia, economic – that already explained it perfectly in 1922 Changed – but above all emotional and affective. My main concern at this point is if you have not arrived too late; too many insults for too long. That is why I would like to refer an appeal to the rest of the Spaniards. When we get back to normal and prepare your vacation, don't think about Quim Torra. Think of the hundreds of thousands of Catalans that we love you and that we have always loved you. When you organize your new trips, do not think of the Government of Catalonia, think of the hoteliers, the restaurateurs, the merchants who have always treated you as a wonder and who have always offered you the best of themselves. I know it won't be easy. The contempt, as I said a moment ago, has been too much. But Catalonia, and let no one doubt it and in spite of everything, continues to be worth it. I encourage you to continue visiting Catalonia because also, that no one forgets, if you don't know Catalonia, you don't know Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.86.0	Well, it's that I honestly don't know what to answer, because these kinds of speeches that might be perfect... I don't know, videotape it, comb it, and it's already there, isn't it? Because I don't know exactly what you asked. If what you're referring to is how this government has acted, then this government, from the first moment – from the first moment – and, I assure you, the first time we have news of this epidemic, we get to work with all the rigour and with all the responsibility. And we've faced all the emergences since the first moment, with truth and honesty. Always. And I think it's recognised to the very least by people who are very close to their political party or to other parties from which we are very far apart: that the Government of Catalonia has acted with serenity, has acted with caution and has always acted at the expense of scientific rigour, of the recommendations of health authorities, with transparency, and always struggling for life and people. And, yeah, imagine'syou', that we're making speeches like what you just made right now, right? I'm the one they'd get to tell us. And I'm sorry about this and this cricket. I'm sorry because what's going on, I don't know, at the Madrid Congress I'd like you not to come by. I think we're at an exceptionally critical moment, I think it's an exceptionally consensual moment and that we need to find a way out of all of us - in order to leave no one behind. And above all, don't let anyone go, for example, in the tourism sector, as you said. Actually, you're important. I, who have spoken to the whole tourism sector, can assure them, therefore, the concern with which they see these days in advance. And the Government of Catalonia will do everything in its power to ensure that the tourism sector is insurmountable. We need, we need, that 15_percent of the GDP represented by tourism to Catalonia is insurgency. And he'll have all our support and we'll be at his side at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures of the Government to rescue people and guarantee the protection of workers before the effects of the social crisis]] [[317-00192/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.88.0	Good morning, President. One of the most well-known of the Cuban revolutionary José Martí says: "To do is the best way to say. In these two months, we have heard you and your government say many things. He said that to rescue people, he said that it is essential not to carry the outcome of the social and economic crisis to the workers' side; he even spoke, even though in a confusing way, of universal basic income. To do it is the best way to say it. President, we know what he said, but we want to ask him: what did his government do to rescue people? What has your government done not to carry the outcome of the social and economic crisis on workers' scales? President, what did you do to guarantee pa, stop and work? What did he do because this crisis didn't steal our lives?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.89.0	To answer you have the arrest of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.90.0	Yes, she's fine, Congresswoman, and I like José Martí's quote. And, actually, it wouldn't serve as anything but our fessimist speeches and not fessimist, would it? And it seems to me that this government, deprived of its powers from the first day – went to say, and at night, because we didn't know anything about it, that it approved a royal decree in which all the powers were held, as you know very well, perfectly well – we have been since the first moment, not only claiming to the State the powers that were removed and the powers that the State has, but working alongside people, for Catalonia and for life, as I did two years ago, from this rostrum, gave in my investment speech. We then started with rescue measures for people and jobs and for businesses. It seemed important to us, it seemed important to us that everything happened in the first few moments. It's that the most important value at these times is the time value, being fast. And that's why we immediately proposed total confinement, worker protection measures, and enterprise protection measures. It was vital to do it all at once, all fast, easy, easy. Because we had to trust everyone so we could make this confinement for everyone. And I honestly think that the Government of the Generalitat has been able to transfer this trust to the citizenry. And I feel like the citizenry has transferred its trust to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.91.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.92.0	President, say, say, say; say many things, I insist, but doing it is the best way to say, to rescue people, because the workers do not carry with this crisis and to ensure that this crisis does not steal our lives. I must confess that at some point it seemed to us that he was pointing to a different way of doing things; a different way of doing things..., different from the last decade, with the austerity policies that have driven, and different from the Spanish State, which has again shown itself to be what it is: a state in the middle of the rich, a state in the middle of the oligarchies. But it wasn't like that. Finally, a few days ago we found out how badly it would serve the proposal of universal basic income. That's what we're talking about when we ask him what he's doing, not what he's saying. What you say, we already hear; but we also read from it that they make their decrees, that from here we will not debate either. And we also see what they're voting for. And, for example, at the end of the day, we saw how you were filling your mouth with value for the public sector and for the Community, but they were voting against recovering 5_percent of the sum allocated to health care and health care. To do it is the best way to say it. And we'll put it in place for you to say and do more. For dessert, his government gives lessons on rights and freedoms, and Catalonia's security bodies have raised 120,000 acts that will turn into complaints about law bites, hundreds of people detained and coercion to the right of assembly and demonstration, as we saw this week in the city of Barcelona. Do you know what's going on, President? You say many things that are common sense, but you don't do them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.94.0	Well, at least in something..., something I thank him: that at least he recognizes that we give them. Now you can argue about whether or not you do. But I assure you that, from this, from the very first moment, we have made it very clear that here there was a health emergency, an economic emergency and a social emergency, and in the measure of our possibilities, in the measure of our possibilities... And from here we complain – and from here we complain – because this cannot go any further: with 4,000_million that we are claiming, with a deficit top of 0.2 that seems absolutely ridiculous to us and with the surpluses of the joints still waiting for it to pass. We need all the resources, because we will only get out if we are able to put the question of sovereignty and resources to the world at large. In this new future, it must be about sovereignty and resources. It's obvious that we need all these resources to be able to pull everything we've been pulling forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.95.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the general suspension of the payment of taxes]] [[317-00191/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.96.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. President, do you consider that there is a suspension in the payment of taxes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.97.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.98.0	So yes, yes; I think so. And I've defended it since the first moment. Yeah, yeah. Just like I defended from the first moment. Remember, one day ago, that I told you, I said: 'Help us, help us take a whole series of measures with the Spanish Government, help us that the ERTOs are paid, help us that the Civil Guard does not track the separatists, help us to detail the Spanish army's assumption, help us to pull the rent, the subsidy for families with people in care. We asked them for help, and we changed two extensions of the city's alarm state. Jo, if you'll excuse me, maybe, if we're to continue here, I'd ask you not to help us any more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.99.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.100.0	President, with Citizens and Bildu. I mean, I think the picture's right. All the way, I want to focus on my question. Actually, I asked him... because he's sure that you said he'd call a tax suspension like VAT, IRPF, corporate tax, but he's also sure that you changed your mind. And I'm saying, by the way, we're going to find out that you're really thinking that. We also listened to you say that one day you might not be closing the door to push taxes to Catalonia. We were glad. I must say that he also surprised us, because we know Juntes' position for Catalonia with taxes. But then she was a flower of one day and the government spokesman appeared and she said that to raise taxes to Catalonia was nothing. But I'm going back to the question. How did you feel, President, that it is no longer the money that comes from the tax on luxury goods, for example? How does it feel that businesses that are benefiting from this crisis – and pharmaceuticals come to my mind – stop paying taxes? ; companies like Grifols to whom, according to the Critical Diary, you have contracted for a value of €4_million_i_mig to do PCR tests. Grifols, for sure, that, if in the last few months he has not changed, he had his tax attorney in Ireland; here he only pays a 1_per_cent, and prefers to pay his taxes to Ireland and the United States. President, asking for the suspension of taxes is an attack on the working classes of this country, in an attempt to redistribute wealth, against social justice and also affects public services, because they do not live either from the air or from the donations of Amancio Ortega. And we know that when there's a tax report, what happens is there's a report in the public service. So, instead of suspending taxes, what we need is a Covid tax, a tax on big fortunes to help rebuild this country, which they didn't do in 2008. But it's that, besides, you don't just ask for tax suspension, you ask for universal basic income. Certainly, I have to tell you that the guaranteed income of citizenship, which depends on you and your government, is only arriving at one of every four people who need it in Catalonia. But, well, I already told you. Yes to universal basic income, but it is incompatible with tax suspension. It is materially incompatible and also ideologically incompatible. President, it is good that those who pay the most taxes in this country follow the working classes, those who are anxious, those who are more just, those who are precarious. And I'd ask you, please, to stop asking for a general suspension of taxes as if we're all in the same condition, because that's not it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.102.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speech of the President of the Generality have not been recorded.]] ... attack on the workers, no, head of the handles, no; attack on the workers, head of the handles. Listen to me, a militarized government that has put the military in front of the press wheels. That's what your government did. A government that makes two_months and half–two_months and half–..., that has not yet approved the vital minimum ingredient. Two months and a half! And now we need to spend – we need to spend. Not even a flap. They need to spend. A government that still makes thousands of workers have not been able to charge the ERT. Attack on the workers? A government that makes thousands of workers can't have charged ERTO. And we need all the working classes to have the money they deserve right now. It's what's super important, it's what we have to spend. We don't have to worry about debt – we don't have to worry about debt – from the very beginning. And yes: help the working classes, with all these subsidies, not just the vital minimum income. There is also the conciliation subsidy for all people who have dependent and caring people. It's absolutely necessary, too, that tax. This is important, this subsidy. And, in turn, it's very important to suspend taxes. Of course I do. We have to give liquidity to businesses, we have to save all the jobs. With what it costs us – with what it costs us. We have to save every job place in this country. It's very important. Every job we don't save right now will cost us a lot more money in benefits. Therefore, yes, escort'm, protection to the workers and trust to the workers. And yes, it protects businesses and every place of work. You're vital, you're fundamental. And that's what I ask. Therefore, listen'm, from attack to workers, no lesson; neither a lesson – nor a lesson. Look, I've never let so many of you down before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.103.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.104.0	...in such a short time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.105.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generality about the convening of political forces and social agents to promote the pact for reconstruction]] [[317-00195/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.106.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Most honourable President, you will allow me to begin by conveying our condolences to the victims of the Covid; by conveying the support to the people who are fighting against the disease to overcome it, and by recognizing the efforts of all those who are helping, to the residents, to the hospitals, to the CAPs, to fight against the disease. I asked you to lead a Catalan pact for social and economic reconstruction. And we had a discussion about whether it was "reconstructed or built the term that is most longed for." A pact that was able to recover the economic activity, to ensure the maximum efficiency of the Administration, the highest quality of public services, to promote a Catalan power for reconstruction, that reaches the enterprises, the autonomies, the workers and the families. A pact to ensure equal opportunities, reduce territorial imbalances, promote sustainability and boost industry, research and innovation. A pact that brings together the government, the political forces, the economic and social agents and the institutions of the local world. President, one month has passed, we have learned that the government is organizing itself to hold its own. And today I want to ask you when you plan to summon political forces, economic and social agents and local institutions to put us together to work towards this essential Catalan pact.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.108.0	So yes, I – thank you, Congressman – keep the offer, because we from the first moment we said that this exit to this economic and social, and educational emergence, as the Councillor said before, and those who can come, we have to make it together. We have to do all the folding, we have to do it with the local world, we have to do it with the political parties, we have to do it with civil society, with all the talent of civil society. That's for sure. And that's where we're making this offer. I must say that I am very sorry, on the other hand, that since the government of the State there is no attempt to dialogue with us, with the government. The famous co-governance has been a question of: « Escotin, empassi'svostè the one who gives it to you. And that's why I think it's gonna be good that we see it, because that's what we'll see, like Catalonia being able to get us out - all together and all folded, because there's this spirit of consensus, when I'm very sorry that, in Spain, that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.109.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.110.0	Look, President, I've always thought you'd be better off opposing the Congress of Deputies that run Catalonia. I have to tell you that you each day are seeing the president of the Government of Spain, and in porte deu, of meetings of these. It's not the case with Catalonia. Therefore, before I told him to do it, it's better than to say the best way to say it is to do it. You do. But you don't just do it because our parliamentary group is asking for it; maybe that's not enough... but even recently it has rejected a letter from Foment, Pimec, Workers' Commissions and UGT asking it to urgently convene the Social Dialogue Follow-up Commission. There's a call for dialogue in Catalan society. It's a cry that it's not just political, that it's not just party, that it's felt, loved and loved by a lot of people. And, therefore, despite their responses, as always extemporaneous, more extensive, full readiness to help from the education system to the health system and the joint recovery of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.112.0	And the agafo, and the agafo, I'd just miss it. All the hands we can hold, forward. Now, look, he's asking for the next one, too. Do you ask that you, that you govern Spain... you know how we can get out, Catalonia? On the assumption that we have? No, it won't be enough – it won't be enough. What else do we need? The 4,000_million extras that cost us the cost of this pandemic; that 0.2_per_cent of debt can be much higher. I suppose he'll agree that this is what we're going to fight for, to the Madrid government, because it seems right to all of us, because we know it's time to spend and debt us, if that's all right, all the administrations, and the first, the generality. And I suppose something we've been complaining about for weeks now, that they're the Romans and the survivors of the gatherings, will also help us unhook it right away. But we're already wearing two months and a half, and I'd be more likely to have this..., we can apply it, because it's also very important here in the assemblies and the deputies, it's very important, it can help us a lot. I, look, if these three things are committed to this being really decided by the state government, I think it would be an important step towards this dialog not just being a finding dialog, but actually being able to find solutions – we can find solutions. Because we need all these resources. We need them to pull them forward. And I have no doubt that this whole chamber will be in favour of these measures, because it is in favour of all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the management of the health crisis and the ideological debate for social and economic reconstruction]] [[317-00194/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.114.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. The situation is extreme and I want to think, we want to think, that everyone in this room is completely unaware. The pain that Covid-19 has caused for many families is immeasurable; there have been pairs, opinions, friends, children, and they have done so without eating. It's a deep, perverse pain that we can't forget, neither today, nor ever do. In terms of health care, there is another, one of collectivity: social uncertainty, work and economic uncertainty. And our obligation here is to give face, to be responsible and to find solutions; also to the Nissan, as an example of actuality. The complexity is very great. We've managed and managed this crisis on a voluntary basis. Go ahead and send everyone a thank you for the ingenious work. And I'm sure we've been wrong. It's human to do it. And recognizing it is, too. And you'll need to evaluate it at your own time. But we must be aware that we will only get out of it if everyone here is willing to row. And we didn't have this..., we didn't have this feeling; we saw decisions, parliamentary initiations and statements that were not low-flying, but that they wanted to be party goods for political wear: looking guilty and throwing the virus at our head; using Parliament to erode and be corrosive; doing and signing here to those who do not want or accept the Congress. And to do so now is strictly to the antipodes of the ethical responsibility that we hoped of you in the midst of the global pandemic. The world's places are counted where the opposition will be pinned down to seek refuge in the midst of the crisis. It is the moment of responsibility, of going to one, of criticism to build and not of criticism to destroy; of explanations, all and always; of transparency, always, but of irresponsibility there is enough. Always being able to explain to us and above all here, in this Parliament, to find solutions, to captivate the social model, to build a society that always has life in the center. And when all this begins to diminish, it will be necessary to analyze, to analyze everything, and to make this Parliament the paler of reconstruction, of the ideological debate about which future we want, about a new society that we have better than we have; to make it all together from the ideological differences, analytically, critically, but with the will to build, which is what the citizens of all of us who are in this room expect. And we want to know, President, what you value in doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.116.0	Yes, thank you. Congressman, I agree very much with your words. I think it's just the time for construction, inclusive argument, if I may, too, huh? I think it's time to think about the common good, the benefit of the community. And that gives me the feeling that we've been trying to do – I don't know, huh? ; there will be political groups that may not judge this –... but we have acted since the first moment of maximum transparency in the Government of the Generality. And I say this, for example, on the subject of the ciphers, unfortunately, therefore, of the dead and of the infected. To which we have kept the figures of the dead in residences, we have given them. Which neither the State nor many autonomous communities have yet done. And I think that this exercise of transparency, of explaining the truth at all times, even though it was, therefore, such a painful truth was worth doing. Because, in short, we are also obliged to account; it is our job. The opposition, obviously, has the right to age, huh? , for the government's sake, but we also have to be accountable. But we can do this with a whole set of folds, and it seems to me now more than ever. It gives me the feeling that the citizenry will not forgive any of those political parties that want to make a political use of it, of everything that has happened. Because it's hugely hard what's happened, because there's still a lot of pain. I say that there will be a great scar on Catalan society, that we will have to be the coverings of all that this doll collect we know how to accompany it. Because we haven't been able to accompany many families who have suffered from the front line. And that's why more than ever, if I may, and I appeal to all groups, more than ever, felt country, felt country over partyism. We really need to find these great consensuses. Catalonia has always achieved them in historical times. And this is an exceptional moment. I've never had such a hard time in our country before. Therefore, appeal to the dialect, appeal to the great building of consensus and appeal to the responsibility of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.117.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the permanence of Article 155 of the Constitution and the re-centralization of competitions by the Government of the State in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[317-00193/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.118.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable President Torra, two years ago from his investiture as President of the Generality and the holding of the councillors and councillors of his Government. It was the constitution of the government that was to allow the rise of 155 and thus end the darkest era of our recent history. The powers of the State carried our institutions and our sovereignty. Precisely this week we have presented the findings of the Commission of Inquiry into the Application of Article 155 to Catalonia. Putting on lights and stenographers was a moral obligation of the Parliament that came out of the 21st of December elections. And, in this sense, we have found that 155 was a coup d'état; a coup d'état against the sovereignty of Catalonia, with the aim of rolling the majority will of the Catalan society in exercising the right to self-determination. It was an illegal, premeditated state operation, with ideas that have names and surnames: Mr. Mariano Rajoy, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, Mr. Albert Rivera and Felipe de Borbo. For this reason, we propose that Parliament declare that 155 was a coup d'état against Catalonia and that it reprimands its artifexes. Also, we have to regret that the 155th Esperit is still in force. And this covert application has also marked these two years of his presidency's legislature: with an unfair feeling of political prisoners, with Euro-orders in exile, with his disqualification on the part of the Central Electoral Board, with the intrusion of this organ for making electoral lists, with a judge pending at the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia and with a judge in progress at the summit of the Mossos d'Esquadra, among others. The repression and the regression of rights and freedoms is incessant. And now we find ourselves with a state of alarm that has de facto become a state of exception, in which we have to add a re-entanglement of skills that flattens our ability to act to rescue people and save businesses due to an unprecedented health and social crisis. And, paradoxically, what has perpetrated it is the Spanish government that defines itself as the most progressive government in history and that already deals with the right without any complex, as we saw yesterday in the Congress of Deputies. At the end and end, we see that the 155's experiment forms part of the DNA as much of the Spanish left as of the Spanish right. In this sense, President Torra, we would like to know what his appreciation for respect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.120.0	Yeah. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, two years of honor and immense responsibility; surely the greatest honor and the greatest responsibility a català can take. And I, from the first moment on, think I said so. I took this responsibility, if I may, as a civic duty; never thinking of personal political careers, only because we actually came from where we came from, of an article 155 that had loaded our institutions. And I'm sorry to say that we find ourselves right now, so, with another 155, health care workers, who have also carried our skills. I've passed 20 percent of this legislature... or all of our folds have passed 20 percent of this legislature without competition. Clearly, it's pretty strong, isn't it? I mean, it's strong enough that for one idea or another it turns out that where we go to bite is always in Catalonia's self-government. Indeed, and we started, and I remember, they always said, "Secute, the motor of change republic is social policies; decisions in the hands of the citizenry, and always at the expense of people and of the rights of the people. This was the guide of the Government of Catalonia and my own. And when the pandemic has arrived now, if I may say so, I think we have gone deeper into these ideas, because we have agreed that this is not a war – it is not a war –, that this did not put military wheels on press, that it seems to be lying that we are seeing military wheels on press; but this is a civic compromise, it is a shared struggle. It is the most solid struggle that a community can pull forward; the fight against an epidemic that affects us all. And, therefore, I think that, another time, remembering these democratic values... they have made us act as they have made us act. Miri, first the country and then the matches, the ones that fit. They took us out with the royal decree, they took us out. They took our decision-making power and left us the responsibility to settle, huh? A perfect formula. But we didn't give up, and we followed, and we followed a path, and we knew how to trust people. It seems important to reschedule it. And now we have ahead of us a future, a disruptive future, a future that we want different. He wants to be different. We can't rebuild a past model. We want a green future; we want a future that the success model school pulls forward; we want a much more egalitarian future, much more just, and we want a future, above all, with work places; we need all work places in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.121.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priority of unity and the consensus of political forces at the time to face the effects of the pandemic caused by the Covid-19]] [[317-00196/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.122.0	Thank you, President. First a memory for all people and families who have suffered the Covid epidemic and recognition for all those who have worked to fight and move forward. I also welcome the fact that Mr Torra and other concerned members of the Government of the Covid are well and that we are already here doing politics again. Mr Torra, do you consider political unity and consensus to be a priority in order to tackle the pandemic and rebuild Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.123.0	To answer, you have the President's stop of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.124.0	Yes; I also celebrate that it is found between us today. I think that in exceptional times as we now live, it is necessary to find great consensus. This country has known how to find them: it found them out of the Franco dictatorship; it found them looking at what was then the fundamental and trunk laws of our Parliament and of our self-government; it found them at the time of defining a health model that has been a health model that, thanks to this work of many and different governments, has been able to pull forward and be able to make a lever and double and triple ICUs; it has been able to cope with the model of the Catalan school. Now we also need to find great consensus to know how this country also makes economic progress. Politically we will continue to argue, you and I, because I will tell you that for the new country I will continue to fight for the independence of Catalonia and you will say no to me. But there's everything... let me do it, huh? Above all, there is a future that passes now to guarantee the people's jobs, to guarantee the future of businesses, to ensure above all that the social security system does not expand and that, therefore, we are also able to see the social emergency that has taken place above, an emergence that I am very concerned about. I am in contact with the main entities, therefore, of volunteering, and I can assure you that the figures are really worrying. So here, too, we need to know how to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.125.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.126.0	Mr Torra, I welcome the fact that you are focusing this consensus and this unity of political forces. We do understand it that way. And I will explain to you and all Catalans where Ciutadans is; where he is and where we are going to be. Look, you know that you're going to stand up to us every time you despise, for example, the help of the EMU to save lives in residences; when you say that there were fewer deaths in an independent Catalonia; when you use this Parliament for 155 committees to exalt the blow that was here and denigrate our democracy with the separatist narrative; you're going to stand up to us when you look elsewhere in corruption. But, also, as far as the fight against the pandemic is concerned, as far as saving human lives, saving jobs, rebuilding Catalonia..., for all that, he will find us the first. Citizens have already been meeting with various sectors for weeks, some of the most disadvantaged and others of the most affected and strategic for the Catalan economy, and we are passing on to you proposals that we would have wanted to discuss in a united forum with all political forces, a forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia, which you have eluded and formed a group within your government. Look, our talent, without going any further, is yesterday's. Yesterday Ciutadans voted in Congress a proposal agreed with the government of Sánchez, a government that may seem to be harmful to us, but while you were making insulting, insolidary and pointless speeches there, we are looking for agreements with a government that we certainly do not have much in common, as we certainly do not have much in common with you, but we are reaching out to you and reaching consensus against the Covid and to favor all Spaniards and Catalans, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.128.0	So, miri, I told you, huh? , which radically separates a political question from us. I will make the same speech that you consider to be bad speeches on the part of the independent parties, because for me the new normality has to culminate with an independent state. I have no doubt that Catalonia will be independent. For me this is an irreversible issue and my political action and my defence of my political ideas always lead me to work for Catalonia's independence. But does that mean you can't help us? So much. Now that you're members of the Socialist Party and the commons... so help us. Aid for the 4,000_million euros needed by this country, so that the deficit topall of 0,2_per_cent can be higher, so that the surplus of the joints can be unlocked... Help us. I mean... huh? I also..., you see, I mean, I ask you; you, the PSC, in common..., I mean, this new majority that forms the Spanish government. Help us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.129.0	Thank you, President. [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the reptes of Catalan society before the crisis generated by the Covid-19]] [[401-00033/12]] After the control session and before we move on to the rest of the agenda, and as I anticipated in starting this session, we will now move on to reading the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the challenges of the Catalan society before the crisis generated by the Covid-19. To read it, ask for the intervention of the first secretary of the Bureau, Mr Campdepadrós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.130.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the reptes of Catalan society before the crisis generated by the Covid-19. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its condolences to the families and friends of all the victims of the Covid-19 and conveys all their support and consideration to them. At the same time, it conveys all its support to people who struggle to overcome the disease. The Catalonian Parliament wants to thank the enormous effort of people working in public services, in very adverse circumstances and often in precarious media, to combat the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, to heal the evil people of Covid-19 and to take care of it, to continue to serve all the people in the community and to ensure the functioning of the institutions. The Parliament would like to extend this thanks to the workers who, from the private sector, have continued to carry out long-term work which has been essential in order to enable the assembly of the citizenry to follow the indications of the public authorities to comply with the exceptional measures to combat the pandemic. It would also like to thank the important task of volunteering and the profusion of expressions of solidarity that citizens have shown since the beginning of the epidemic. The Catalonian Parliament also wishes to recognise the effort of the city council to maintain the high degree of individual and social responsibility necessary to ensure that the exceptional measures required remain effective and, in this sense, to put into value the transversal effort of everyone, from infants and young people to the great people. In addition, the Catalonian Parliament wants to state that structural social inequalities and vulnerabilities have been exacerbated by the situation, they have emerged with strength before the confinement and crisis of the Covid-19, and they have shown the unequal incidence of these according to the income variable. These social inequalities particularly affect women, according to all the indicators, as they increase the burden of care you take on them, their economic dependence and, consequently, male violence. In this sense, the Parliament of Catalonia shows its willingness to continue working so that co-responsibility in all cures becomes a reality and the exercise of these ceases to involve double exploitation. The Catalonian Parliament is committed to agilely carrying out the legislative and government action-driven tasks that are needed to support local governments, citizens in general and particularly vulnerable communities, given the economic and social impact that pandemics and measures need to combat it are likely to have. Palau del Parlament, May 21, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.131.0	Thank you very much, first secretaries. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let us now proceed to the next point of order, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. As this composition has already been included in the file of the plenary, I am referring to the composition of the Bureau of the Committee of the Study of the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector, I would like to point out that I am not in touch with the reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00007/12, 234-00014/12, 234-00029/12, 234-00046/12, 234-00057/12, 234-00061/12, 234-00068/12, 234-00069/12, 234-00070/12, 234-00091/12, 234-00128/12, 234-00135/12, 234-00139/12, 234-00141/12, 234-00144/12 and 234-00149/12 to 234-00168/12]] So they can move forward. And let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the compatibility situation of Members. Since the Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the European Parliament on the compatibility of Members has also been published in the Chamber's file, I would like to ask that it be taken away from reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Compliments of the budgetary assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia accumulated]] [[237-00005/12 and 237-00006/12]] So let's move forward and move on to the next point, which is the presentation of the Report on the Complimentary Expenditure Presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia on July 31, 2019. Before the presentation begins, I would like to suggest that this item would be substantiated together with the fifth item on the agenda; that is to say, what is related to the Report on the Complimentary Presupposition of Parliament's Expenditures on 31 December 2019. So, we'll do the whole year. The Bureau, in accordance with Rule 37.3, letter h of the Rules of Procedure, has entrusted the presentation of both reports to the deputy intervener Mr Antonio Espinosa. So, when you do, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.132.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today's intervention takes place as an intervener and on behalf of the Enlarged Bureau. I am speaking today to explain the performance reports and compliments of Parliament's assumptions for the first and second semester of the 2019 fiscal year, before subtly 'lsa la votación and, if escau, to his approval for this plenary. All this I do as a compliment to the provision in Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Allow me to thank the listener for the ease he gives us to the deputy interveners to do our job. Now, now, without further ado, I'll explain the reports. As for the first half of 2019, the import of the initial budget of the Parliament of Catalonia, for 2019, in force for the financial year 2019, amounted to 53,650,703.80_euros. Logically, there have been presuppositional changes, which have led to an increase in initial credits, due to maturity in the first half of the year, of 4,378,486,27_euros. As a result, the total import of the defined budget of the Parliament of Catalonia, at 31 July 2019, is 58,029,190,07_euros. And its distribution per chapter is as follows: Chapter 1, of staff remuneration, increased the amount of 27,015,290,76_euro; Chapter 2, current expenses of goods and services, 10,746,835,63_euro; Chapter 4, which are current transfers, the import was 15,843,900_euro, and Chapter 6, real investments, 4,413,163,68_euro. Chapter 8, which varied from the activities financed, provided 10,000_euros. As of 31 July, of the total number of defined credits, they have been recognised, logically, bonds, and have remained for an import of 31,585,112,20_euros, which means an execution of 54,43_percent of the defined presumption. The summary of chapters of this execution was as follows: the salaries of the staff, 16,529,893.01_euros, which implies an execution of 61,19_percent of the credits defined in this chapter; in Chapter 2, current expenses of goods and services, the import is up to 4,842,614.70_euros, which means an execution of 45,06_percent of the credits defined in this chapter; in Chapter 4, current transfers, the import is up to 9,401,465.71_euros, which means an execution of 59,34_percent of the credits defined in this chapter, and in Chapter 6, real investments, is up to 811,000_euros..., lost: 811,000_euros, yes, that implies an execution of the chapter 38 of this definition. This is about the semester ending July 31st. With regard to the second half of the year, which legally ends on 31 December, throughout the year, during the whole of the year 2019, the presuppositionary changes that have led to an increase in credits, of initial credits, have been of EUR 7,130,655.72_. As a result, the defined assumption was 60,781,359,52_euros. And its detail, per chapter, would be the following: the salaries of staff, total, throughout the year, have remained of 29,695,523,88_euros; chapter 2, current expenses of goods and services, 10,203,535,63_euros; chapter 4, current transfers, 16,271,586,33_euros, and chapter 6, real investments, 4,600,000_euros. Of the total defined assumptions or credits, obligations have been recognised for an import of 58,507,545,65_euros, which is actually an execution of 96,26_per_cent. On 31 December, the executions per chapter were as follows. Chapter 1, staff remunerations; 29.136.190.44_euros have been spent, which implies an execution of 98.12_percent of the credit defined in this chapter. Current expenditure on goods and services has amounted to EUR 9,149,645,89_, and therefore represents an execution of 89,67_percent of the credits defined in this chapter. In Chapter 4, current transfers, the import has risen to 16.180.852,04_euros, implying an execution of 99.44_percent of the credits defined in this chapter. The real investment chapter is an amount that has increased significantly in line with the previous year and amounts to €4,030,856.29, and also executed a very large amount, of 87.61_per_cent, of the credits defined in this chapter. In the chapter of variation of financial assets, it is 10,000_euros, which accounts for one hundred_percent of the credits defined in this chapter. From these recognizable bonds, who's been paid? Well, the payments made by recognised bonds, during the 2019 fiscal year, made in the same fiscal year, boost the amount of 56,990.539,34_euros, and remain pending to pay recognizable bonds for an import of 1,517.006,31_euros. So, we find that 97,41_percent of the bonds recognized.... were paid on the 31st of the 12th of 2019, and 93_percent respect the definite assumption. As the defined presumption has been 60,781,359,52_euros and the recognised bonds have been 58,507,545,65_euros, the romant of credit of the year 2019_has been of a total of 2,273,813,87_euros, and represents 3.74 of the defined presumption. So, this novel is what we haven't – to say the least – spent. Well, a part of these credits, 259,580,79_euros, are linked to the execution of ongoing contracts, and they are of intangible character. Now, for another band, the import of the available credit romant likely to be transferred to the romant background is 2,014,232,08_euros, and represents a 3.31 of the defined assumption. The Expanded Bureau, in its session of 20th of the IV of 2020, agreed that this Romanesque of 2,014,232,08_euros is destined, as contributed by the Parliament of Catalonia, to the financing of the expenses to deal with the health crisis provoked by the Covid-19. Therefore, the Bureau agreed to incorporate the amount of 28,479,91_euros into the Romanesque fund, which came from extra-pressupostary entries that could be incorporated, in accordance with the precise content of Article 139.2 of the Rules of Procedure. This is, to a great extent, the implementation report and the compliment of the presupposition of 2019, for which I ask them, in my name and in that of the rest of the Expanded Bureau, to approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.133.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I advanced them to the beginning, the vote on the reports would be taken at the end of the morning, with the rest of the votes remaining. Yes, Mrs. Sánchez, do you ask me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.134.0	He asks for the word to explain the sentiment of the vote that will take place at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.135.0	Go ahead, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.136.0	Simply to say that the CUP we will abstain at this point, in coherence with our not the premise to which it refers. In case we do this by technical inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for the change in the composition of the Government]] [[350-00014/12]] We follow, therefore, now with the next item on the agenda, which is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government. In accordance with Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.138.0	Good morning. Thank you all very much. Thank you, too, to the staff of Parliament. I compare to give the Parliament account of the change in the composition of the government, as well as its structure, as it is precept and as it is my will and my commitment, to always give explanations. Just a few days ago, he's made two years of my investiture. In the course of this period I have had occasion to compare, with today's, on two occasions. This government is characterized by the fact that we had to take on a few giant challenges – we've seen it –: we started with Article 155 and we're in an alarm state. We have had to face situations of extreme difficulty, of obvious discomfort before the narrow assumptions arising from having to survive with an extended assumption of 2017, for an offensive deficit, and that has experienced in the first person very hard personal affections before the judicial offensive of the State. And now he has had to face an unprecedented health crisis. Despite this, despite all these more than adverse circumstances and attempts to undermine this government, this government has stood still. The remodeling of the government for which I understand today is not pleasant and we do not want to avoid its gravity. I would first like to express all the support for all the women who have been able to suffer this alleged sexual assault. The Government expresses its absolute commitment against masculinist rape and sexual assimilation. It is investigating whether there has been a lack of protection for persons who may have been victims of settlement and will be making clear whether there have been any guarantees for those affected in this case. Several international events have spoken against this type of conduct, however, to name a reference, the Fourth World Conference of the Dona, held in Beijing in 1995, has already defined as an area of violence against women any act of sexist violence which has as possible or real a damage of physical, sexual or psychological nature, including rape, sexual abuse, assimilation and sexual intimidation at work and in other areas. I now go on to detail and remember the facts that led to the change of advisor to the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. On March 9, the Ara newspaper published that the excap of the councillor's cabinet ceased for a continuous case of sexual assimilation to various workers of the department; it ceased to have place on the 24th generation. On the same day, 9 I asked for the opening of an inspection of staff services to clarify what had happened and the reasons for which the mandatory protocol had not been activated, and I also demanded that a confidential information sender be initiated to clarify the facts and that a dispatcher also be initiated which was in the psychosocial sphere, as a consequence of the working climate that could have been created by the situation and to provide information on whether the persons concerned could develop their professional activity normally. On the same day, 9th, I also held a meeting with Counsellor Bosch, to ask him about the facts and about the non-activation of the Protocol for the prevention, detection, action and resolution of sexual settlement situations by reason of sex and sexual orientation to the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, since until that moment there was no communication of his department to the General Directorate of Public Service. I also spoke to the vice president and councillor Puignero, to get to know more about the circuits that could and should be started. The same evening Counsellor Bosch resigned. On March 10 the procedures were initiated and during the following weeks the internal tasks are carried out suitable to activate the two measures. March 14th is the first day of confinement. Given the difficulty of the Department of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency to carry out the activities planned in the period of confinement, it agrees to postpone them until it is given in the circumstances attached to this type of psychosocial intervention, all insisting, from the Prevention Service, Labour Health and Social Policies, in the need to finalize as soon as possible the intervention and to prepare a final report. In finding us still in a situation of confinement, I kept the procedure open. I repeat: the moment I had knowledge of the facts I asked the counselor He suggested that you activate the protocol immediately. This protocol determines the actions and responsibilities of the bodies to be involved in resolving these situations and ensures the plurality of interventions to ensure proper treatment in the valuation of each of the actions, while respecting the most appropriate methodology in each case, in accordance with the general principles of this protocol. Therefore, the Government took the necessary steps and activated the corresponding protocol. Now he's studying, and the procedure is still open. If this procedure concludes that there are responsibilities, from the Government of Catalonia we will exercise them in accordance with what is at the end of this investigation. At the moment when we have the conclusions that are derived from the procedure that establishes the protocol, we will take the appropriate measures. As is clear, and as I said at the outset, the Government rejects these attitudes and, therefore, expressly undertakes the actions necessary to not tolerate it and facilitate the means that are required to prevent it from occurring. It is necessary to act with coherence and self-requirement and from exemplarity, as has been done in this case. For what he refers to the appointment of the Honourable Counselor Sole, well, I think that for you, therefore, he does not need any presentation: he knows so much for his activity, for the exercise he has made as a deputy of this chamber and also for the years he leads as mayor of Agramunt. He took possession of the External Action Advisor's office on March 21, telematically, unpublished and of which I congratulate, in full confinement for the Covid-19 pandemic. It is clear that you have expected to compare appropriately before the External Action Commission, Institutional Relations and Transparency precisely to talk to them about the actions due to end for this department in relation to this issue. And taking advantage of the context and the opportunity that gives us this appearance, and also according to the same prescription cited to the author of this, of the re-accounting of the structural changes in the government, the information also of the attribution to the Department of Health of the skills in the field of social service centers of residential character. Article 23.2 of Law 13/2008, of 5 November, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, empowers the President of the Generality so that, by way of decree, the name, the name and the scope of the competitions of the departments in which the Government is organized may be changed. Taking into account the difficult impact on third-year residents and the gravity of the data, with the aim of urgently containing the effects of the pandemic on the collection of large people living and living in Catalonia, I considered the need for the Health Council to centralize its health management. Therefore, in conformity with the legal authorization, on 10 April I signed Decree 54/22020, amending Decree 1/2018, of 19 May, of creation, denomination and determination of the field of competence of the departments of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, for which I attributed to the Department of Health competence in the matter of the policies of services, services and social protection, the policy of the great people, the policy of people with disabilities and dependencies, and of the assistance equipment of the social services network. The decrees of 12/2020 and 13/2020 contain, among other measures, the regulation aimed at the adoption of organisational, competitive and material measures to ensure the proper direction and coordination of the prevention and control of the infection of Covid, as well as sub-administrations of information in the field of social service centres of residential character. To these effects, the Department of Health is entrusted with the competences that the current regulations attribute to the Administration of the Generality in this area, establishing also cooperation measures with the local authorities of Catalonia and making concrete the obligations of sub-administration of information to complete on the part of the residents regardless of their public or private ownership. In this way, the Health Department has been directly managing the location and accommodation measures of patients in residential and social health centres, who are also subject to health service inspection. As you know, the residents find the highest concentration of people vulnerable to Covid-19, the largest, with a mid-eighty-four years old, with a situation of very diverse pathologies and multiple pathologies; in short, the most fragile, most vulnerable people, before possible accelerators of the embezzlement of their salvation. That is why, in a context of health crisis such as the present, sense of doubt, the necessary coordination between the Department of Labour and the Department of Health, in a context of health crisis, the criteria that must prevail in the attention of our opinions and wishes is the health care, and here, the urgent and imperative decision of concentration of efforts from a greater health care and that, therefore, in this case, who was to lead this management of the social service centres of our country's residential character should be the Department of Health. And I think that, in addition, a collective reflection of the future that we will have to make, one of the consensus that I think we can work the whole chamber together is that, effectively, this model of the future of care for our larger and more vulnerable people; a model that passes necessarily because the socio-health and health fields are jointly coordinated. I will not be here precisely because today they already have the debate and the vote, among others, of the laws which provide for these measures of a competitive and organizational nature, but I do want to inform them that, in parallel, they are established, in the framework of these laws, the measures of cooperation with local authorities in order to count with the maximum possible resources when it is necessary to intervene in these centres. Therefore, I donate my intervention, which had no other reason than to inform them of these two questions. I take this opportunity to thank all the advisors and advisors of this Government for their commitment, work and work done to the Government in the context of this unprecedented crisis and to encourage them to continue to manage and govern with the highest sense of responsibility so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.139.0	Thank you, President. The parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes each. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.140.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Well, at such a harsh time of health crisis, but also of economic crisis and social crisis, I think that public representatives have to be more self-demanding with ourselves, because the Catalans as a whole need us to live up to the circumstances and also be responsible, and that this means that those measures that are taken in the health field, but also, as I say to you, in the social and economic fields, pursue the common good and the general interest alone and exclusively. And the Department of External Action, then, should set an example, rise to the gravity of the moment and release resources to allocate them to help the Catalans who are so badly going through it at this difficult time of health crisis by the Covid-19. Today we are presented here with the new Foreign Adviser, Mr Solé, who seems to be meeting the basic and essential requirements for being part of this government, which is to be imputed, and, moreover, if it is out of disobedience, then better than better, isn't it? ; a counselor who doesn't know how long he's going to be at the head of the department or in his office because maybe he might end up disqualified just like he did to you, Mr. Torra. Look, Mr Solé today picks up the witness of the last years of this council, at the head of Romeva, of Maragall, of Bosch, whose service sheet is summed up in four actions: the first of them, of course, to promote the process; the second of them, to speak ill of Spain; the third of them, to use the department as if it were an ETT, a placement agency, and the fourth and last, to try to buy wills by distributing their lies around the world, or, what is the same, to ignore the real objective of this council and to put it at the service of their cause and of their own. Before I go into this matter, I would like to recall, as you have done very well, Mr Torra, why we have Mr Solé as our new external adviser. He's not here for magic; he hasn't come out of nowhere. Mr. Solé is the new external advisor because there was one person who had to go through the back door: Alfred Bosch had to resign because, therefore, he allegedly covered up cases of sexual harassment of his chief of staff. But, look, as much as Mr Bosch resigned, the damage to the victims is still there; the damage to the victims has not been repaired. And that's why we asked for the new external advisor to appear. And the truth that it would have seemed to me, therefore, a good way that you will debut in this atrium giving the explanations that Mr Torra gave us today ; but I believe that you yourself should get to the bottom of the matter and that all possible responsibilities should be cleared up. And I hope so. Look, in this change of government that you come to explain today, you would also have the opportunity to start a new stage in external action, a worthy stage, a stage in which the Department of Foreign Affairs pursues the interest of the Catalans as a whole. But, however, you have turned this department into a franchise of the process and have been expanding it all over the world; that is, with the money of all Catalans. Look, the government's changes should serve to improve the government's action, but we already know that you are not going to do it, because you continue to do so. You two would talk a lot, but then at the time of truth it's always exactly the same. And I'll give you the example of the last control session we had here. We proposed the creation of an autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia. You seemed to be delighted with this proposal, but then, at the time of truth, nothing at all. Well, nothing at all either, because you copied our proposal. Now, that's right, leaving out the opposition. That is the dialogue you practice; that much to ask for, but then, at the time of truth, little. Little, Mr. Torra, dialogue. I want to ask you why these embassies have served beyond to make propaganda in favor of the process and the break with the rest of Spain. Catalans don't pay taxes with the sweat on their foreheads so that some will then go to beat up the good life in those franchises that you have all over the foreigner and dedicate yourselves to everything but one thing, which is to work. To work for the interests of Catalonia. That I remind you that we are all. We're all Catalonia. To work for the interests of a community that could once again be the engine of Spain if you did not have them at the front obsessed with the same thing, with the story of separatism, and spending public money that, I insist, is of all, Mr Torra. Look, after ten years, the feeling we have is that you think this chollo is going to last you forever. You think that you can dispose of those embassies, that you can go there putting your own, you can go pouring gasoline into the process with your lies and manipulations, hoping that someday someone, whoever, will buy them abroad. But I'm sorry to tell you that's not gonna happen. That is that his separatist account is broken merchandise, that no one abroad believes it, that they do not insist, no matter how much money they put on the table, in lobbies and in propaganda at the cost of the pocket of all Catalans. No, I don't. That perhaps that of the « paying mana was serving them with Pujol, but now it no longer serves them. Look, delegations abroad cost 7_million_and_middle_of_euro. It is a figure that we find unworthy, especially because I believe that these millions would be much better back in the Catalan pocket, I insist, at a time like this, on a health crisis, a social crisis and an economic crisis. And after the times we have warned you that this waste is intolerable, you have not shown any hint of repentance or learning. And the greatest proof of this is that they have no plans to reduce spending or to re-establish, as Mr Aragonés said, in the control session. A few days ago in an interview Mr Solé said: "Delegations? Cut it out, zero. No, of course, of course; they're not going to run out of cabbage. Others will pay for it, won't they? As, for example, civil servants who have not yet paid their salaries, those salaries that they owe. Look, only the Diplomat costs 2_million_de_euros – 2_million_de_euros. It's just that that's a lot of money. The high offices of the Diplomat charge around 80_000_euros a year. I insist that it is a lot of money, that it could be better destined, I insist, to the pocket of those Catalans who are going through so badly in Catalonia, to those families that are going through so badly and that they have been going through it for weeks, not to say months, without getting a euro into their house. Look, at this time of crisis, I think it's time to free resources from this department and allocate them to those affected by the Covid-19. Because the Department of External Action can reduce even more unnecessary expenses, and can devote those resources to ensuring Catalonia's strategic interests. From Catalonia, gentlemen of the government, not from the process, which is that you always confuse it. Look, in this slope of Catalonia, dragged by a pandemic that is destroying lives and jobs, you now have more than ever a great responsibility on your shoulders. And Catalans no longer tolerate any more disdain, no more mistakes, no more waste. So I ask you: do you think you need more resources for those embassies that speak badly of Spain and that also harm the interests of Catalonia? Are you willing to turn one hundred and eighty degrees in your priorities in external action? Because you've been sending overseas charges for years and years to do no one knows what. Now, that's right, cashing out. And we ask you to take advantage of this new stage that you are starting now to put an end to the waste. Because that money, I repeat again, where it will be best will be in Catalan pockets or in those departments that really need it most now. Do you not believe, for example, that this money could be used for testing? Do you not believe, for example, that this money could be used to help SMEs? , to the self-employed? To families? Don't you think I'd be better employed there? Look, we have put forward a proposal to eliminate those government delegations, those franchises that you have from the process abroad, and also to eliminate the Diplomat, as well as to reduce by 25_per_cent the salary of all senior positions – of any staff as well, the one you put to your finger – from your department. We have also registered a proposal for the Government to spend this money, for example, to all those people who have been trapped – they talked about it before in the control session – abroad and who have not been able to return, and if they have been doing so, they have been costing very expensive bills. Don't you think it would be more helpful if you could possibly get those tickets back to the families with that money? That, by the way, I was reading a report the other day from one of your embassies, the franchise you have in Washington, and you were getting your chest out of how you had repatriated thousands of Catalans trapped by the Covid-19 abroad. I, Mr. Torra, when you come here to give the reply, I would like you to answer me what skills you have to repatriate anyone. What competence does this government have to repatriate anyone? As I believe you are not going to answer me, I say to you, you have no competence at all. In any case, it would have been the Government of Spain that had repatriated those persons. Stop lying. That's all right. Since you too are the Transparency Advisor I ask you to come here and explain these reports, where they do not tell a single truth, but they cost us a lot of money to all of us. Look, I think you're preferring to waste the money with your hands full when you know very well that we don't have enough right now. This is a matter of priorities, gentlemen of the Government. And I ask you what yours are. We have our own very clear ones: saving lives, saving jobs and rebuilding Catalonia. And, to achieve that, even though you have made many mistakes, we from Citizens have reached out to you. I have been telling you for many days and I repeat it to you again today: to save lives and to save jobs always count on us; now, to continue their abuses never count. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.142.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Generality, you appear here today to account for a change in the composition of the Government. And certainly the resignation of the former holder of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency led to the appointment of a new holder, the Honourable Counsellor Bernat Sole, who I take advantage of to wish the highest certainty in his management. We can't let go of the motive that led to this network, which is nothing other than the former advisor's relationship with a presumed sexual settlement case, or sexual settlement case, on the part of his cabinet head. It is a good time to reject and condemn any kind of violence or coercion against women and our solidarity with all who have suffered. Also recently – and you have made a difference – there has been a change in responsibility for the residences of great people, which has been attributed to the Department of Health while the pandemic lasts. President, no matter what I say, this is his government and you have the last word about his composition and the assignment of functions to his members. Not to say, therefore, from this point of view; perhaps, as my friend said, it is still a good thing, and therefore a good wish that the Government improves in its abilities from these new assignments of function and this new composition. But at any rate, we would like to take advantage of our parliamentary group to make some considerations about the management of its government, which two years ago, as you mentioned, and also about its own continued government. Almost four months ago, the 29th generation, you made a resounding institutional statement that will allow me to quote literally. You said: "This legislature no longer has political recourse, up to its end. This week we were able to see that the two governing partners face the path to independence in a way that has led to the deterioration of mutual trust that is needed in the most decisive moments. Next I quote you, President: « The government, no government, cannot function without unity, without a common and shared strategy in questions of substance and without loyalty between its members. Some have opened the door of bat to bat for an express and completely irregular disqualification of my condition of president; the institution of the presidency has been unprotected by stripping it of the condition of deputy, and this permanently puts the Government of Catalonia at risk. You also said in the course of that institutional declaration from Palau: "I would like to inform you, therefore, that once the premises of Parliament have been approved, I will announce the date of the elections. I've finished my appointment here, President. The pace of time does not seem to have restored the trust between the members of the government, more quickly all the contrary. Until recently, the Republican Left of Catalonia has identified itself as the need to call elections; a criterion that you yourself have not shared, neither you nor Juntes for Catalonia. And there has certainly been a very significant fact from his statement until today, a fact that brings us dedicated months in the fight against the coronavirus. And, therefore, you have every right to consider that this new fact changes the perspective with which you were addressing the joint venture of the Catalan society, it seems to me that it was the 29th generation. And it's true that now we have to focus on the fight against the coronavirus, but from our point of view it's not overthinking whether the current government of Catalonia is the best instrument to lead these efforts. And we have to tell him – don't let us have it – we think we don't. As the main leaders of the Republican Left have also said, neither can we forget that a resolution of the Supreme Court is pending on which the continuity of this legislature can depend. But, as we have always said, and take advantage of it to reiterate, the decision to call elections only on your behalf, President. Now, our group does believe that it should honour the compromise to set aside the electoral timetable, which it has compromised. You did not say: "I will summon; you said: "I will announce the date of the elections. And neither can we spare him the negit we have about a possible resurgence of the pandemic at a later date, which would make it difficult to call an election, if it was then when you thought to produce it, and that, moreover, it is a fact that has probably had enough to see with the decision of the presidents of Euskadi and Galicia to call elections for the next month of July. President, neither the obvious lack of internal cohesion nor the management carried out two years later justify, in our opinion, the continuity of the government that you preside. There shouldn't be enough reading or rereading your investment speech and comparing it to what really happened in these two years. Assemble, if I may, as one or a chestnut. And let us go to the fetuses; leaving behind, I repeat, the period of struggle against the coronavirus. During these two years, the law has been approved. Of these, only if they are proposed by the Government; both of them are those of the assumptions. We have had assumptions extended for two years; they could not be approved until 2020. In fact, in eight years, Catalonia has had the assumptions extended four times. And the recently approved ones are already passed, among other things – yes, and we all accept that – for the crisis of the coronavirus. We believe that in these years, president, the productive economy has not returned enough momentum; social inequalities have increased; territorial imbalances have also increased, and public services have deteriorated. I could give you a number of examples. The increase of the lists of health care waiters, leaving behind what will pass us, which is that they have now increased logically for the priority of the coronavirus. But, therefore, I am talking to you about what had happened until the coronavirus crisis. Education's assumptions, far from the reversal to which we committed ourselves to the Catalonian Education Law, clearly insufficient for what it does to the schools in Bressol, which more recent sensations show up until when the Generality will have to rescue the assemblies that advanced money that did not correspond to them. Nor has the Decree of the Food Service been updated, nor has the Law of Vocational Training been developed. You were talking about guaranteed income, basic income, vital minimum income... In short, what we can say is that the one in Catalonia – it seems to me that it was a sifra that gave Jessica Albiach – only one of four people who would have been right to perceive it really realize it. Therefore, we really believe that it has not been done well; as the Law of Childhood has not been deployed, as on the waiting list of people who have a right to a benefit for Catalonia, it encapsulates the return of the autonomous communities with the longer waiting list: one_third of the dependents is on the waiting list for their help. Not to talk about health and emergency personnel, poorly paid, with debts on the part of the government, and who will continue with precarious work and no investment in infrastructure. Or it's making decisions, like lowering university fees, which we don't all share, but it's not offsetting the universities about the flood of entrances that's going to cause them. In industrial matters, the national pact has not been implemented either. Environmental issues have not been incorporated into the new megawatt energy system from renewable sources... And the one who's wanted. The ectere could be very long, and in other debates we have been able to talk about and argue about respect, because logically the government's view does not coincide with my own. But, President, the question is the following, and you planted it with a lot of cruelty, pain, I dare say, and a lot of sincerity on the 29th generation. If you feel unprotected for your members, if you proclaim an obvious internal division and that the legislature is exhausted, what is the real reason to enlarge it, to prolong it? We already do, we fully recognize your ability to call elections, but we do enjoy... precisely in this claim that you made as a country, president, and given that your members have also claimed it, that you placed the election time, which is to which it was compromised. And so it's clear, we're not asking for elections, it's up to you, but we're asking you to honor your commitment to explain to the Catalan society when you have the opportunity to decide who will encapsulate the new political stage that you yourself claimed in donating the legislature for exhaustion. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú We can have the word Ms.Jéssica Albiach's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.144.0	Thank you, President. And good morning again to everyone and everyone. President, mainly in this appearance you came to talk about two themes: on the one hand, the resignation of Alfred Bosch, and also, on the other, on the change of skills over residences. On the first, the change of the advisor of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, is to say, the resignation of Mr. Alfred Bosch and his replacement for Mr. Bernat Sole, to me also seems to remember which were the reasons for this change. This change occurs after the newspaper Ara published that at least eight women in the department allegedly suffered sexual assault on the part of Alfred Bosch's head of office, and it seems that Alfred Bosch would have had to get that information, and that is why, in the end, he would have removed it. Yes, he did not activate the protocol that the Generality has against sexual settlement, and, according to the newspaper's sources, he would also be looking to remove it, because he does not seem to see that there were strong evidences. I want to remind you, we're not talking about one, two or three women, we're talking about up to eight women, and you don't seem to see that this is strong evidence. All a disproposal that even Bosch himself, when he makes public appearance to present his resignation, admits that he did not react correctly, that he did not manage it as a calibre. And the big question for me here is what happened if this news wasn't published. Surely this Lord has ended up relocating to some other public channel, and, sadly, and most likely, he would be repeating his behaviors, because we know that sexual aides when the few do not leave, so they end up recidivizing. Therefore, a lamentable chapter would have been reproduced from top to bottom of the classic set-up manual: some facts to which it is left to import, some women to whom it is not believed, and also a heading that does not end up applying the protocols. I think it's an exhibition of how much we need to advance in the fight against masculinist rapes, also here in Catalonia, to the Generality and in full 21st century. And about the new counselor, I think we'll have to wait to see what his management is. I have to say that Mr Solé, the Bernat, and I coincided with the Legislature passed to the Education Commission. I want to point out that he is a working person, who has a very good character, with whom it is easy to agree. We've always had, and it must be said, a cordial relationship. Just as I congratulated him in private, I want to congratulate him today in public, and, moreover, I wish him much certainty, because they will not only be his uncertainties, but also those of the country. And I would say that during the term of office, which I would also say will be relatively short, we believe – and then I will enter a little bit more into this question – that once I pass the healthcare emergency Catalonia needs a few elections, but it is true that during the time that this term lasts, even if it remains short, it would have to work in two lines. The first is on the contract line from which it was made in 2008. At those moments there were some details of the Cooperation Fund that ended with projects that were very important, that were very powerful to strengthen public policies of the pillars of the welfare system, and, moreover, it was counterproductive to the interests and needs of vulnerable communities in Catalonia. It's a mistake we can't repeat again. And the second line, it is certain that the department has had a paper that I want to highlight during these weeks of the crisis of the Covid to help the return of Catalans who were in other points of the world and who needed to come, and that for the issue of confinement it is not possible to do so. But it is true that, beyond the point facts, I think it would be interesting to work on a return programme worthy of all Catalans and Catalans who had to leave after the 2008 crisis. On the subject of residences, which was also referred to by the President and which was also the reason for this appearance. On the 8th of April we knew the news that the residents were about to enter briefly under the umbrella of Salvation. And we consider, and we have already said so, that it was an uncertain decision, but, President, you will have to recognize that it was also a decision that came late. In view of the critical situation that they were going through, we, however, also saw various and the sector in question, were demanding this measure of ugly days; in fact, ugly more than a week; the situation was overflowing for moments, there were more than 1,200 dead people in the residences, and the anguish and powerlessness had spread in a general way. It is true that it is a complex issue, with which we do not have to party, but the reality must also be said. And within this complexity, which I am also trying to prove, we are talking about a collection that is of high risk, that it is not only for the age, but because many also have premeditated pathologies, and, moreover, it is true that it was not only a topic of Catalonia; we have seen it in others in other areas of the State and Europe. But what we can't say, President, is that the problem we had with the residences was a communication problem. What was in the residences was a real health crisis that was given there in particular incidence, and the residences neither had the resources nor the capacity to do so. They did not have protection resources or spaces to guarantee the winging, they did not prioritize the tests, they did not have the support of the primary, there were twenty residences that were not reporting information, with which we do not know what was happening exactly behind those doors, and besides there was no centralized control from the government. So, as I said, a good measure, but unfortunately it will be late. And we're going to get more into the debate too late and then into the committee of inquiry that will have to do with the residences, but I also want to say – and it's also a delicate issue, but it's also to be able to talk – that there are complaints from workers who have generated doubts, because it's about possible vetoes of people who were infected with the residences to take them to the hospital, because there was no space. And they also reported that there would be a return of ills to residential care. And here, too, I would question the right of dignified death, because we all know that residences are not health centres. Where there is no doubt, President, it is a sector that is already coming from a situation that was very weakened; that has suffered abuses for the processes of outsourcing, mercantilization, privatization; with certain working conditions, on the part of the workers, absolutely precarious, and also with frozen tariffs since two years ago. And that's why, from here on out, what we have to think about is how we look at the future. And the new normality can't go by to repeat past mistakes. The way passes necessarily to demerchantize this essential sphere of life, with which no negotiations can be made. We also need to talk about how the skills return to Social Afers, but focusing on the needs of personal autonomy, focusing on the needs of each person. And a key element, which I think has still been talked about, but which is important, is that the great people who are in the residences must be left out of the public health system. And explain it to me. A great person who lives at home is attached to the primary care center of his area; a great person who is in a residence is attached to a mutual, to an externalisation. Therefore, we must not go back with this; it is the primary care of the area that must be taken care of, with all the reinforcements that are still sufficient, and that is why we need more staff in the primary care, and also more professional nurses in the residences, and obviously there must be coordination between them. And here, President, they'll find us. Because we have shown that when it is for the benefit of the citizenry, when we talk about reaching agreements to put the country, to put the citizenry, before the acronyms and the party, they find us. We've shown it so well. When we talk about reaching agreements to change the model so that it's fairer, more balanced and fairer, we're left with the hand. So don't look for us – don't look for us – for makeup measures, but to change the model. Because we already know each other. As the CUP said before, then the PSC said it and now we're telling you, we already know each other: you say a lot but you're doing a little bit. So, if it's really about changing the model, let's get our hands on it; if it's just about making makeup measurements, they don't count on us. And, in addition, we give him this knowing that this government has a very limited recourse, because each situation – each situation – is converted into a new dispute between the governing partners. Even so, the electoral call has become a new motif of conflict between you, between the partners, between Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia. Catalonia needs a good government, it needs an alternative, a government that is not putting its energies in the internal picabaralles, that is thinking of the whole city and that works among the partners of trust and loyalty. And as this happens, as the elections arrive, I insist on what I have already said, President, to change the model, that the present is unjust, that it is cruel, that it is inefficient, to move forward with a model that follows more just, more efficient and fairer, here we are. Not for makeup measurements, but to change the model yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.146.0	Well, thank you, President. President, you have come to talk about changes in your government, and, also, from our point of view, you should talk to us about a crisis of your government, for three main reasons, from our point of view. I'll explain. In the first place, there have been quite a number of changes in a council because of the masculinist rapes that have occurred and because of the fact that they have not addressed themselves properly. Secondly, the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families has gone beyond the effects of the Covid-19 on the lives of large people and reacted late and poorly, and they have, since their government, decided to pass it on to the Department of Health, without saying, far better results. If the effects have not been more negated, it has been due to the great effort of the workers and workers of the residences, assuming great risks for lack of resources and protections and leaving themselves behind. And thirdly, because his Government has proved unable to cope with the re-centralisation perpetrated by the Spanish Government with the excuse of the pandemic and because his Government has not been able to respond to this crisis with public policies that guarantee the reversal of health, education and social policies, that now greatly and severely exacerbate the impacts of the Covid-19; nor with firm measures that ensure that in this crisis the person is left homeless, without work, without sufficient and healthy food, and without basic resources, and that they force capital and banks to pay the bill. We will not expand on the issue of large people's residences because our deputy Vidal Aragonese will already mention enough in his speech about our proposal to create a committee of inquiry into the management of large people's residences. Tanmateix, I have to anticipate that the problem is model. It is necessary to change the model of attention to the great people, who become fully public, such as sanitation, and provide them with much more resources. And you, in change, for now continue to secure the health and private services trade, and we continue to lack PPE and serological tests. We do want to refer, however, to the question of male violence in the Department of External Action and Institutional Relations. The patriarchy and the masculinist rapes are obviously present in all institutions and organizations, also ours – also ours. We have not made self-criticism and strive to prevent them, address them and eliminate them. We want to express, therefore, our support to the workers who have been victims of these rapes. In this case, his Government has acted late and has sustained, over a long period of time, an intolerable and unsustainable male violence situation. It is difficult for external officials to act without the protocol against sexual attachment that the Generality has, despite having clear indications. There is an urgent need for firm and determined action to ensure, with transparency and verifiably, that no institutional space remains opaque and free of intervention for what it does to the will and protocols of prevention and approach of male rapes. And we have to ask ourselves, with all intents and purposes, why a government that is not at the height of these needs and of these challenges is needed. Certainly, you, President, have often cried out and proposed some measures such as ours, and we propose: that the crisis should pay for it by banks – you have said it literally – or universal basic income, redistribution of wealth and – and so on – you serve one hundred_per_cent publics. But this, President, is nothing more than a toast to the sun or a cry in the desert, because his government continues to flatten itself before the banks, manages a guaranteed income of citizenry every day more precarious and restrictive and does not face the State in a firm and determined way to act with sovereignty. The parties that form part of the government sometimes compete to negotiate softly with the Spanish government, which is rushing – as we saw yesterday – to fulmine their, probably, few foundations, dialect expectations. And if we add to all this the ongoing confrontation between the two partner parties of Government, we must conclude, President, that his Government is a government in crisis and that captivating the situation would require an imminent crisis of Government. And in this sense, President, then, in the turn of the reply, I will make some concrete proposals to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.148.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, Mr. Solé, for months there was an unsustainable and condemnable situation with which the rights of the workers of the Department of Foreign Action were trampled. Months of silence and cover-up that gave rise to a major scandal and that, unfortunately, was buried half buried as a result of the terrible pandemic we are living in. Months of silence and cover-up. In fact, this alleged sexual harassment of the department's workers was not only tolerated by the counselor, but the alleged accuser, his own chief of staff, was about to be rewarded with a new position. Injustice and opacity in the Department of Transparency, Mr. Torra; so that they will then make choices. And the amazing thing is that you don't stop Mr. Bosch. He resigns by pressure from his own party, which ends up recognizing his inappropriate conduct. It is true that there are two coincidences in time. The first, that Mr Bosch's party turns its back on you with your disqualification as a Member and the second, that the scandal was about to appear in the media. Who knows if the second is the fruit of the first and all that, when at that time you had in mind calling elections and maybe it was your original way to start the pre-election campaign. Surely, without these two coincidences, Mr Bosch would still sit there as a counselor giving lessons of transparency and obviating more, if possible, all the protocols existing in the Generalitat against cases of sexual harassment. Even so, the willingness to cover up the case of the two government parties has been evident. Therefore, Mr Torra, from the Catalan People's Party we demand not only that all protocols be reviewed, but also that the work of justice be facilitated and that all those who participated in the cover-up be stopped, because such an episode cannot be repeated again. On the other hand, with regard to the new organization chart of the External Action Council : disappointment. Disappointment because you should have taken advantage of the Councillor's change to change your priorities as well and even raise whether the Councillor's own existence is at the moment, or at least that of many of your agencies that depend on it. It should have used these resources in external action to strengthen other priorities, such as health, education and social services, as well as to address the many new challenges facing the pandemic, to save the productive fabric and safeguard the future of Catalan families. Catalans do not need offices of agitation and propaganda abroad, expensive and more unnecessary than ever. I insist: it should put the resources of all Catalans at the service of what is now a priority. Why do we want a separatist office in Tunisia, if here we are unable to prevent Nissan from marching from Catalonia? Why do we want Diplocat if Catalonia's image drives investors away? Why are they going to make a campaign to attract tourism from the rest of Spain if on the other hand they spend a multitude of economic resources on international campaigns against Spain? External action may be necessary, but not that which you are carrying out, which is totally counterproductive and which, therefore, would be best dispensed with. Close delegations, stop subsidizing the Diplomat, have these economic and human resources to alleviate the economic and social effects of the Covid-19. Prioritise urgency and rule wisely. You now say that elections are not appropriate, that it is up to us to deal with the health emergency. Prove it, but it would be important for him to do it without deceiving himself and honestly towards the Catalans. It is true that Catalonia needs more than ever a stable government, but the feeling is that itss is constantly walking on a wire and there are no lack of reasons. First, his personal procedural situation does not help, pending the resolution of his appeal to the Supreme Court. Then, your inner leadership, which always seems questioned, even from your own ranks, with a continuous dance of substitute names for you. And finally, the attitude of his governing partner does not contribute much to stability, demanding that he be elected every day. It does not seem, therefore, that these factors help stability to continue to govern, but it is true that you continue to show some political autism and sometimes it gives the feeling either that you are lost or that you are lost, now that it seems that you have taken the pleasure of this to govern, but let me tell you that if this is the last, you have taken it a little late. Catalonia has very important future challenges. The situation is very serious and will force you to make essential changes to the budget that you have just approved to deal with the crisis of the Covid-19. But in addition, if you want to continue to govern you will have to approve a new budget for 2021, as a scenario of budget extension due to lack of support would be lethal for the Catalan economy and for the urgent needs that Catalans have and will have in the coming months. Therefore, Mr Torra, before entering the next few months on inhospitable ground, before playing Russian roulette with the health of Catalans, avoid scenarios that, in one way or another, can lead to elections at the most inopportune and dangerous time, coinciding with a more than likely outbreak of the virus at the end of autumn and during the winter or spring of next year. Get out of doubt, be honest with the Catalans. You told us in your day that trust with your government partners had broken. However, he now has the will to continue to rule, although he knows perfectly well that it is not up to him and his problem is that his governing partner is asking him for elections, as, by the way, not a few opposition parties as well. Obviously, when the health emergency passes, as will happen in the Basque Country and with Galicia. Therefore, and end, Mr President, if you believe that with all this you can face the most complex scenario humanity has faced since the Second World War, once the health emergency passes, you are subject to a question of confidence for you to check whether or not you continue with the majority support of the chamber to continue governing beyond the health emergency. Mr. Torra, the situation is serious, it's not time for cunning, it's not time for political opportunism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.149.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.150.0	...the health, life and well-being of Catalans are at stake. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.151.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.152.0	Thank you, President. President, I can only begin by congratulating the Solé Councillor on his appointment. Thanks, buddy, for accepting the repte. It wasn't safe – sure –, the easiest moment, but you've been good and it'll be fine. We've been a good couple of years in Parliament, and I can only thank you for your work since the first day, but especially this last year and a half where we've been working on rapeseed rape, you as an adjunct to Esquerra and I as a group president; things we never thought we'd do if it wasn't for the harsh repression of the State that we're patenting, which you're patenting yourself. Many, many thanks, counselor. I also want to value your personal value: you are a great person, close, easy and empathetic, able to always put yourself at the place of others, and this we sometimes forget and do not care, in all spheres of life, and also, and perhaps even more, in politics. Mayor of Agramunt nine years, and therefore forged at the best school, the most difficult but also the most graceful, the one that makes you live the problems of the most close people and the one that best prepares for any other future responsibility. With all this motxilla, above the time to take on new responsibilities, to lead the Exterior team by putting all the knowledge in the service of the country, with illusion, with determination and with the compromise that you always show with republican values. We're sure you'll be able to trust the team and take advantage of the department team's knowledge and mess. They're a big human group and they've done and they'll do a great job. Now they need it. They need more than ever to be accompanied and notice your support to overcome the situation produced a few months ago. As in the department, you have to offer all your support to victims and put them in the center. These types of fetuses are neither tolerable nor eligible either. Counselor Bosch resigned from before a management that was not correct: he resigned. A practical mass little usual in politics, sadly. But we see it that way. When things aren't right, they get stuck and make decisions face-to-face. Exemplarity is practical, and we cannot fall into the mistake of preaching it and enough. None. There can be no space for the doubt, instead, and now we need to learn some mistakes and get reinforced out of this situation. And, therefore, Counsellor Soler, the job is also to help the department's team recover pride. And it goes on to accompany people, to close the wounds, and to get out reinforced without leaving anyone behind. We know you'll know that because, in fact, you're already doing it. The department's project must be to continue everything that had already begun Romeva, Ernest Maragall or Alfred Bosch. Continue posing Catalonia in the world, keeping the stake for negotiation with the State, also, as an instrument that converts Catalonia into a valid interlocutor at international level, and that shows that this conflict only resolves in one way: voting. Explain to the world that people must be able to decide the future of their country, and this is an idea of democracy that they understand everyone and understand everywhere. And do not fail in the realm of open government and citizen participation. We've moved on a lot in the past few years, but we can't put up with it now. We need to get to the level of the Nordic countries. And respect the pandemic, I want to remind you that just to get to the councilman has been able to be the most effective tool at the service of all those citizens who are outside our borders, to help them, to deal with cases one by one, to find individual solutions before those who only want centralization and uniformity. The councillor has worked in the network and with an open vision in favour of our citizens, and has made a clear and determined bet in favour of transparency and open data. In a short time projects such as the press wheels opened to the citizenry, which premiered the Vergés Councillor, published open data on the pandemic and put the information to the citizenry to the fore. In the face of a crisis, more information and transparency than ever before. That's the path. Thanks for doing it. And he also remembered the president that there was a change in the structure of the government. The competitions of the residences have gone from being under the umbrella of Afers Socials to depending on the Department of Health. A step further to protect the great people of our country from this pandemic. And I can only begin by thanking Councillor El Homrani and Councillor Vergés for the work and coordination they have had in this area. The goal was to give a much more medical focus and not so much assistance to the great people at this time of health crisis and was part of a whole plan of action that had been applied without rest from the pandemic's incisiveness. But let me, before, donate various data to situate the question, the abst and the context of the situation. Catalonia has died, as a result of the Covid 11,000 people at this time. Eighty-eight percent of these people over seventy years old; 67.4 is over eighty years old. Some figures that are given in a very similar way to other places in Europe. The virus attacks in a much more aggressive way the older people who have an immune system to which it is much more difficult to react. In Catalonia we have a thousand residences where 50,000 large people live. The middle age is eighty-four years. 90_per_cent have premeditated illnesses. The people most vulnerable to the pandemic live in our country, as is the case. Of these 50,000 people, 13,000 have been confirmed as positive, and of these, 3,609 were killed– yesterday– by the coronavirus, which represents a total of 30_percent of the deaths in Catalonia. All these figures consist of contextualization and sometimes manifest the virulence of the virus in these collections of larger people and the difficulty of dealing with it, in part, in good part, also, for the care model we have. The government has protected and prioritized large people's residential centers, with people with disabilities and mental illness since the first moment, but, despite everything, the Covid has had a great impact on these collections. The figures show that the situation was extremely delicate to manage and, at times, that, unfortunately, it did not do better than other places, but by luck neither in Catalonia than in other places. And precisely because of that, it is very regrettable that it is intended to take advantage of the change of skills or the deaths of these people as large as political wear, as party wear. The ciphers are cold and frivolous. And now that I've gone over a few – too, perhaps – I can't remember them that behind each of these numbers there's one person, there's a story, there's a family. We are all much more empathetic, because it is life that is at stake, and precisely the decisions that have taken these days are for this, to save lives. And it's been going on since the first moment. What has our government done? So it was from the first territories of the State that it took decisions on the first week of March; decisions that other places were taken later and that have been closed, like now closing the day centers, like now not making entrances, like now booking spaces to do winging, limiting and restricting visits to the residences. But, as in all areas of this management, the initial re-centralisation and the sole command decreed for the Spanish State in the distribution of material also had a negative impact on this sector. There was not enough protection equipment or enough text, and it did not begin to solve until it was possible to make a big purchase on the part of the Catalan Government, directly to the Xina, which was able or allowed to distribute generally protection equipment from the country. Now there have been 76,000 PCR tests, of which five thousand have been made to workers and workers. Tests and tests have been carried out on most of the country's residents. According to the data reported for the residential centers, 1,857 large people have moved to us space or relocated, and 754 residents have returned to their home. There have been residences that have not been able to cope with the crisis, because the complexity of the situation has overcome them and, in these cases, the Department of Social Affairs, first, and Health, then, acted quickly, diligently and changed the management company or the same address of the centre. In total, there have been interventions and changes in management up to 12 residences. There was no lack of communication, there was no neglect; there was work, work and work, both of the resident teams and of the Generality, depending on whom the competitions took place. Obviously, taking the step to Greeting was important, because it was possible to take one more step in the future medicine and it was done when the conditions allowed. It was one more step in the whole protection task that had been done from the beginning. Not a rectification, but the logical order to do things. And I wouldn't want to finish this intervention without doing a recon to the workers of the residential services. It may increase your social prestige and also your subs, which are a 30_per_cent lower for the same responsibility as in the health field. And even so, more than 4,600 professionals have gone to work on the residences of large people, of disabilities and of mental health, thanks to the fact that Afers Socials has reinforced with professionals the residences that they needed, through healthcare teams and also from an emergency bag created with people registered to the SOC, with professional profiles dedicated to incorporate them. To all of them, then, my recognizance. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.154.0	President, Councillors and Councillors of the Government of Catalonia; Solé Councillor, fate and uncertainties; Members of Parliament, good morning. It makes sense to see this hemicicles so empty, so deranged, so strange. Today is May 21, 2020, and this vulture is a sign of time, a social derivative of the Covid-19 pandemic. Today it's very obvious that we're not all here and that we're trying to make a normal life, but it costs. And it costs because we're in an exceptional situation. The measures against Covid recommend caution, but it is obvious that in this Parliament, today, there are no visions, you look at all the groups. For this reason, I take the time to make you notice precisely this strangeness. They'll agree that when we're not all there, we need something. We know that – for what we believe in the sovereignty of the country and its institutions – in this Parliament, in the last years, we have repeatedly experienced this strangeness, the normality of absenteeism, because we have lacked freedom, democracy, collective courage in the defense of what is obvious. We need to be able to talk about everything, which is an enormous absence. And we missed the deputies who won the right to be there at the polls and couldn't have been there. We're not all here today, and it's weird, huh? So these years, we haven't been all of them, and it's been very strange. That's why, our complaint when we're political. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In fact, we are after defending democracy these last few months, but now that we are fighting the Covid-19, it is also very obvious, President. The pores make us weak, because to plant face the great threats it is necessary, effectively, to be strong. It's been proven before the crackdown, and now it's back to showing how we're dealing with an unknown crisis. Fortress and hearts, I say. President, your government has suffered exceptionality with no one. Watched for a cheating justice, he played a political role with the remorse of the fonds, always the remorse of the 155, always harmful. You, President, have faced the thousand cares of a State against you. And to end up complicating this complexity, finally, Covid-19 was added, in case we weren't all, we weren't prous, which placed us in another abnormality. You, President, these last two months of health emergency, of the landing of an economic and social crisis of still imprecise proportions, you, in these two months, have exercised an undisputed leadership. You, president, are understandable, because it's flattering, because you say things by your name, by the hard things that follow; at every thing your name and treat people in an adult manner. We thank him for the form, we thank him for the background. Now a lot of people say, "Oh, President Torra, President Torra! All right – all right. It is well that this positive recognition of public opinion is verbal. But it's also good to know that this President Torra is the same President Torra that these last two years has been in front of the Government of Catalonia. The dilluns of your investiture in May 2018 already made it clear that people were in the center of everything. People and life, this is their formula. A humanistic bet to make up for the government's work. From this humanism hangs the concept of truth. Talk from the truth. The truth with all its risks but also with all its advantages. This explains his intervention today and this explains the decisions he has made in the last few months before two very different circumstances; different but complicated, but delicate for any government in the world. I am talking about the coronavirus and the government's management in the area of large people's residences, and I am talking about how delicate it is to escape the truth and to act before the complaint of a case of alleged sexual assault involving the Department of Foreign Affairs. Says with a phrase that belongs to all of us: it's not no. And it's not as often as not, and in all spheres and in all circumstances. You're not. And in this Parliament, and you know it, we have repeatedly endorsed it the last few months, with motions approved, for example, on February 7 or December 12, 2019, or also in the conclusions of the general policy debate. It's not an obsession of Parliament, it's people, it's society, it's the country; we want it that way and we work so that that's it. In the same way, this Parliament and the Government are compromised with gender equity, with implementing a gender perspective in all public policies, where we push the Catalan observer of gender justice. These commitments are clear, and for this reason, before a difficult situation affecting the Government, a clear and coherent response was sorted out. When you learned of the possibility of improper and unacceptable conduct, you faced the problem without doing anything, you sought the truth and the most effective solution. You could've guessed, or you could've looked... in fact, he looked at this case and he did it well. He listened, accepted the resignation, resignation, of a counselor, and at once activated the protocols of the public service to go to the scene of the problem. And that's why there's still an open procedure today. You, President, always sort the truth in all circumstances, always, when you have to defend freedom of expression or in this case, which has an ethical and exemplary view. You, President, have the virtue of embolizing your public action with a layer of dignity, of values, which is always there, and this same layer of truth we find in the management of Covid-19. True the appearance, true the trimmer, true the comfort, and you always sort the truth. Thus, through the weekly meetings with the sector, meetings encapsulated by the president, a direct collaboration was established to resolve the shortcomings detected. And this is where you decide that the organic structure of the same Generality needs to be re-adapted to give response to Covid-19's mortality to residences. It is to say, in the midst of the pandemic, the president acts as president, listening and acting, leading and seeing clearly that the structure of the government had to be changed, and he changed health criteria and saved lives. You heard that the best for the people and for the country was that the residences of great passers-by people in the field of Salvation. It was not comfortable; it was simply necessary. Making this decision in a coalition government, with the circumstances surrounding it, was a risky decision, because it could generate more remorse. But you sorted the efficiency, solved the problems, and you made it clear. I also want to talk about your bet to face the crisis of the triple-dimensional coronavirus. First dimension, the stake for life and plant face to death, attend to the health emergence provoked by Covid-19. Second dimension, repairing the damage to people and the economy, and do it from reality. It has to be very hard – I recognize it, it has to be very hard – to explain to the country that the situation we are living in is difficult and uncertain, and it has to be very difficult to explain openly that the next three_months we play it because everything that can be done now will have an exponential positive impact, in the same way that everything that is not done now will have an exponential negative impact in the coming years. That is why you defend that the priority is to govern and not to think about the issues that are up to date. Now it's government, because now it's people; people need it to be done, it's protected, it's answered, and it's protecting their future and places of work and economy. Act, repair and, in parallel, build. If the person is at the center of everything, he has to act with this order of priorities, he cannot do it any other way. In this sense, we thank you, Mr.Iceta, that you do not call for elections, that you acknowledge that by responsibility the government manages a crisis without precedent. It's obvious that the coronavirus crisis has changed everything, absolutely everything, and we find ourselves at a time when people are the priority. We thank you for today's statement in this faristol. Always putting the country's interest in the front of the game, this is the obligation of all folds. Now good – before good, before good, after good [[the timer riu]] – to be faithful to the truth, the Government of Catalonia has approved fifty-three standards with law rank and forty-one law decrees in the last few months; also twenty-seven preliminary memoranda as initial point for the development of the pre-draft law. And you, while – and you, while – and talking about extended assumptions – and you, while – are, therefore, certainly still ruling in Madrid under Mr Rajoy's extended assumption. I also wanted to insist on this "many things have changed, even if we have changed from the age, it is true. But there's one thing I kept: the country and people will never give up on having a future. That doesn't change, President. We did not give up having a horizon of prosperity and prosperity; that does not change, President. This is a human, social and political value that cannot be renounced, and politics cannot look at another gang. I'm done. This final question is only the resolution, this moment that we have before us only the resolution if we love ourselves from the ethics of responsibility, that Weber said, now that President Torra has marked the path. Responsibility and passing the truth always before opportunity. Truth and good governance, always, even though I make complicated decisions. I'm done. Deputy Serrano, autism is a disease; autism is neither an insult nor a tara. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Decree-Law 11/2020 of 7 April, on which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementarities]] [[203-00036/12]] As the president has declined to use the second round, let's finish this debate here and move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 11/2020 of 7 April, for which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementaries. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. When you say so, Vice President. Yes, tell me, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word? Say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.156.0	Yeah. We wanted to make..., well, to show that there was an agreement of the Bureau and of the Board of Spokespersons to deal with the subjects related to the Covid-19 with priority and yet today we see how in this decree the Government takes advantage to put the salary increase of the former presidents. It is clear that some of us use the state of alarm to look for improvements for SMEs, self-employed and workers, and others use it as a smokescreen for the usual: increase the salary to the former presidents. I think it's immoral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.157.0	Mrs. Roldán, I believe, of all kinds, that this is a political consideration, not of order. In any case, you'll have the opportunity to defend him when he answers. Thank you. Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.158.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, four weeks have passed since the celebration of the late Ple, in which the Generality's presuppositions for 2020 were approved, and they also validated a whole series of laws, some of which, like the ones we are discussing today, have been approved for the government to deal with the health issue, but also to deal with the economic and social consequences that are entailing both the confinement and the decontainment process and its consequences for our lives: our personal life, our social and collective life, and obviously the economic life of the country. Only four weeks have passed in which, despite the fact that every day we have to regret that there are still mortal victims because of the coronavirus, we have seen how, fortunately, the health system has considerably reduced the pressure it had because of the epidemic and we have seen how it has progressed in the gradual decontainment of the population. And if we now find ourselves at this point, in which we have managed to bend the coronavirus curve, it is thanks, among other factors, to the civic awareness and responsibility of our citizens; to the awareness of citizens that the only way to cope with the epidemic was to stay at home and reduce physical contact with other people to a minimum. Therefore, it is not the mere declaration of the state of alarm that has made the confinement possible, but above all the merit is of the compromise of the citizens with the protection of collective salvation and it is to whom we must be deeply grateful. Despite this, we need to be aware that the danger has not happened and, therefore, it is important to avoid any drift from a feeling that this danger has already passed. It would be irresponsible to do so. The danger not only does not end, therefore, of finally bending the crow and flattening it, but the risk of resurgence continues to exist, the possibilities of contagion are well present and, as I said, the risk of resurgence of a new massive infection has not disappeared. As long as we are aware, we do not lower our guard, we always protect ourselves, we continue to protect the most vulnerable people. Because a new burst would not only mean an increase in heavy and probably also dead cases, but would also make it much harder and more complicated to deal with the social and economic consequences that we have today, with this economic and social crisis that we are already patenting because of the coronavirus. Therefore, more than ever, we take care of salvation, keep physical distances, wear masks, hold hands as often as possible. We don't make it easy for the coronavirus to continue spreading and continue to cause pain and suffering to so many families. In all these weeks, the Government of Catalonia has worked hard to give an answer to the issue in all those areas in which we have the responsibility to manage and to influence, and in those areas where, if we do not have the responsibility, we have insisted, insist and insist on responsible respect so that they take the most appropriate measures to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and its adverse economic and social consequences. Unfortunately, the political management of the pandemic has made it more visible than ever, with all its cruelty, that the natural – today, politics – of how the Spanish State is governed is invariable; governments that govern, and at a time when it was more necessary than ever coordination and cooperation between the different political institutions, we have found ourselves with a re-centralisation of decision-making power and, finally, with the imposition of order and command, with an inclusive military scenario. I'm glad we're over it. From the management of this crisis, I suppose no one else will be told that Spain is the most decentralized state in the world. When we compare it, then, we see what was the model of management of other states, in which they left in the hands of the Länder, in the hands of the sub-state governments the management of descalation. It's certainly a federal conception of federalism. From all federal criteria it is understood that in the midst of the health crisis it is centralizing the health skills that the Generalitat carries about forty years managing successfully, that it is the one who better knows the territory, the own system, and from the proximity it is how can solve many problems in the most agile and efficient way. And it's obvious that managing a crisis like this is complex, it's complicated, for any government. No health and care system was prepared to deal with a pandemic like this. The show is that it has managed to paralyze the world economy as before, a completely new situation that we all have to go to learn, at forced marches, how to do it. But, despite this, what I am quite clear about is that re-centralisation does not help, as neither does the lack of funding from the Government of Catalonia, the chronic fiscal deficit and repeated incompliments on investments. Despite all this, we will never give up or give up doing anything that is in our hands to make our citizens live in a climate of well-being, progress shared and security. And because we do not give up, and because we rule for the common good, today we present four decrees approved by the law last April, the first of which, which we are debating today, is Decree 11/2020, for which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementaries. Among other measures, this decree contains a follow-up of provisions which formally affect the scope of tax management, with the aim of mitigating the effects of the pandemic in relation to the completion of tax obligations: it is necessary to specify deadlines and to extend the subsidy assumptions in some of the taxes and taxes of the Generality. In another context, the law decree establishes a sequence of actions in childhood and adolescence. The unprecedented health crisis caused by the epidemic of the Covid-19 has caused, between other effects and in some cases, the involuntary separation of parents or guardians, from the seas and peers who were under treatment or with measures of isolation from their youngest children. Some situations to which the Administration of the Generality has worked to give it an answer. To separate, because of the winging, therefore, of your children is one of the situations, in the area of family relationships, more complicated to manage and more painful, despite being transitory, in the life of those we have suffered from this pandemic. But it must be that the Government is putting in place resources, as it has done, and that is why we have approved this provision in this decree so that all families and children, in any health situation, can count on adults to do so and to guarantee protection. Therefore, in this decree it is created an economic benefit of emergence for the family emergency gathering of children in custody for the Generality. Therefore, those whom the Generalitat must take care of because the parents, unfortunately, are in the wings; the mothers and the fathers, the parents, are in the wings and cannot, therefore, take care of themselves. This service has not only allowed to cope with expenses arising from the care of these infants, temporarily unprotected and involuntaryly separated from their family nucleus by the epidemic, but has also occurred and occurred in the area of foster families and not in residential centres, as the legislation establishes and which in some cases explicitly orders, as in the case of infants from zero to three years. In the field of heritage, it should also be noted that the exceptional circumstances arising from the pandemic and its impact on Catalonia have made it necessary to articulate an express procedure, expressly articulated, to accept the donations that may be made by the Generality in order to help finance the care and health policies derived from the pandemic. There have been instances of private individuals who wanted to transfer to the Government of Catalonia, so donations in this area and, therefore, need to articulate it. Obviously, the totality of the resources used is the source of the public assumption, as it cannot be otherwise, but we must make it easier for private individuals and legal persons who want to do some kind of collaboration and donate the way to do it quickly and safely. In order not to widen me, I would like to make one more incis to two other measures that fall within this decree. In the first place, personnel measures. The staff measures that are inflated and that, in fact, so – now that we are already validating it, once approved the assumptions, therefore, do not have meaning because they are included in the law of assumptions that we approved now a_me – these measures were included in a decree that, because of the difficulty in being able to gather the Ple of Parliament could not be validated. To give security to the 2-per-cent wage increase of public workers, therefore, it was included in a law decree so as not to leave workers and public workers at any time unprotected. All the measures that are envisaged in the field of personnel have already been approved in advance in the Generality's premises. There are, therefore, also various measures in the field of public works, one of which I would like to highlight, which is the Declaration of Emergency of Works Corresponding to two tranches of optical fiber in the country. It was previously expressed by the Digital Policy and Public Administration Advisor. The telecommunications networks in our country have allowed us to continue with collective life and, therefore, those investments which the Generalitat has already programmed, and which should be put on the market as soon as possible to guarantee, not only now, but also that, in the following months, the territories of the country are excluded from this access to telecommunications, from this access to the Internet, so we believe that it was an absolutely urgent measure to take into account. This is the first of the laws that we will discuss today, that there are measures in tax areas, in areas of organization, in areas of presupposition, of contract, of financing, of economic promotion in the field of the structure of the Generality, also in the field of the different regulations and of the different sectors that are overseen from the Generality of Catalonia. For all these reasons they ask them to vote in favour, or to vote in favour of the validation of this decree and of the others that we will present later today. Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.159.0	Thank you, Vice President. Now it is the turn of the groups to position themselves, and, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.160.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, first of all, I am glad to meet you here in this Chamber. I hope that we will soon be able to fill in the missing colleagues because it will be a sign that we are returning to normality as soon as possible. Today you bring to debate and vote a decree that sets out various measures in labor, social, economic, tax, childhood aspects, as you have described, and frame them all in the key to the health crisis that we are experiencing due to the coronavirus. But the main conclusion we draw from our group is that you do not pass up any chance of twisting the Rules to push for measures in pursuit of your interests, and that is where we have motivated our point of order, has been advanced by my colleague Lorraine Roldán. Because today you present a decree with various measures that we could share, Mr Vice-President, but you fill your mouth by talking about consensus, you push invitations to dialogue, but at the first you come and try to sneak here, taking advantage of this moment, privileges, privileges in the form of salary rise ex-high positions, to expressions and high positions that are still in place. And I'm telling you, it seems to me that they should have raised this decree differently because they spoil it a lot. Look, you've made reference to tax aspects that we could share, which could have our approval. We could also share, and especially, those measures that you have put in place for the reception, for children, for the care of minors, those benefits that we consider appropriate and appropriate at this time. And speaking of childhood, two points, and I too; the first: let's see if you reverse all those orphan pensions that were held by many citizens of Catalonia for a long time. We will tell you this until the moment the money is on these people's account. And the second is a call for the commission of inquiry into cases of child abuse. And above all, let us bear in mind that at this time these cases have increased and I believe that, as Administration, we also have to take this and more into account if we speak of childhood in this decree. You're also talking about measures to facilitate donations, and we're okay with it if it's in Covid's code, and we're okay with you accompanying it with measures to protect the donor's personal data. Now, we believe that this measure does not fully conform to transparency when it is not published in official journals, because one thing is to protect personal data and another to pursue the traceability of money, because once it is received in the Generalitat Administration, we understand that it is public money and we need to know what is done with those resources. By the way, on the issue of donations, you have also recently tried to collate some with this measure that you have approved for solidarity boxes so that those who receive money from those solidarity boxes do not tax as the rest of the Catalans do, and the only party that has opposed this frontally is Citizens. Returning to the decree, we could also share some measures of chapter 4, in which you speak of a percentage of annual increase to public workers, rather than deserved. Let's see if they get the rest of their rights back. But in this chapter you are already collecting the first, also raising the salary, in a shameful way at the moment, to the high offices, something that we have already opposed in the amendments to the budgets. And you do not have enough, moreover, that in the fourth additional provision, which you have not mentioned, you approve a salary increase for the former presidents. Look, I think that approving this right now, I say it so clearly, is laughing at the opposition and the citizens, because I think that approving measures related to the Covid, approving measures for the Covid's urgency and raising the salary to Mas and Montilla is totally incompatible. They're not going to get our approval today either in terms of substance or form. The figure of the decree law is thought, as you say in your preamble and reflects the Constitution, as an extraordinary resource, and therefore I quote textually: "A prudent and limited use must be made in situations that really deserve the consideration of urgent and convenient. And you will agree with me that giving privileges is neither prudent nor limited, nor much less convenient. I think it is an absolute shame that at a time when Catalans have been uncollected for months – many of them – that they do not know if they are going to collect next month, for you the urgency is to ensure that these vital salaries of the former presidents continue to be maintained, and, moreover, increasing those, as a lottery that we pay among all of us. There are your priorities, because you, on the basis of this formula, are also launching a message, because for you this is more priority, for example, than many social measures, than many helpers to self-reliant, than ensuring telematic education – now that there are many students in vulnerable situations – or to boost rewards to public workers who are fighting the epidemic. The truth that does not surprise us, because we already know that its only ideology is to pursue its own interests, and this we have already seen with the approval of the last budgets, with the invaluable help of its budgetary partner, Podemos. In recent budgets, it has become clear what its priorities are, and it has become clear, too, what ours are on the basis of the amendments we have tabled to it. Because it doesn't make any sense, Mr Aragonès, that a few months ago, when we didn't have this crisis on us, some accounts were raised, and those same accounts are now used to alleviate this crisis that we all have on us. I warn you that you speak of the new normality, of reconstruction, of construction, of the new paradigm after the Covid, in short, but I believe that citizenship will not forgive the mismanagement of public resources. If efficiency was important before, it is essential now, and there I think we can meet many, whether we are independent or not, whether we are liberal, whether we are social democrats. Let us think what we think, about good management and the priority use of resources for basic public policies, I think we can find ourselves several. You, today, have not acted with fair play, but in the face of that play that you have tried to stick us with this decree, we will do what we will do is to overcome them by raising: we double the bet. We're not going into trill games. We call on the opposition to treat this decree as a bill. If this were not done, our vote would be abstaining, and I also announce that we are accompanying this defense of today's presentation of a law to abolish privileges and salaries to the former presidents. That it does not go a_euro of public resources to privileges of former presidents, and that if it withdraws in this same exercise, that can be destined to alleviate the crisis of coronavirus. And we frame this, as you know, within our proposals for regeneration, slimming the public administration and dismantling its customer networks. Today I announce that we will register a law so that the only privilege a president has when he ceases to hold office is, at best, to preserve the pin, and, if he wants, to sit ahead in the acts, because these privileges are costing more than 2_million_of_euros. It is indecent that the presidents maintain these privileges, keep offices at their disposal, and salaries of more than 120,000 euros when thousands of Catalans are losing their jobs. Keeping Pujol during his former president's stage has cost us more than 5_million_of_euro. Catalans do not have to pay offices to a fugitive from justice, nor do they have to pay either the finances or the salary of Artur Mas while he is disabled. With this law, Mr Aragonès, we pursue nothing but equality. That when a president finishes his suggestion, one searches for life, as all Catalans do. Finally, I will finish my speech, perhaps as I should have started at such a time, by sending a message of encouragement and hope to the people who are fighting the disease. Also launching a message of thanks, which I recognize will never be enough, for all those who are fighting the pandemic, many public workers and people since volunteering, who guarantee the supply. And I hope that, if it is not for us – because in the end we cannot demand anything from Citizens towards us – it is for all of them, that you pose what you wanted to do here today, that you really think all the waste of public resources you are doing, and see if for once we are able in this Parliament to live up to the lesson that citizens are giving right now on the streets. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.162.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, deputies and deputies. Well, today they are leading us to ratify four decrees, in concrete terms now we are debating the 11th. We already have thirteen dedicated to the Covid since the beginning of the crisis, and the truth is that in a difficult time of crisis as we are living and as we have all formed, right? And we've confirmed that we're patenting, said the vice president and also the president that it's a constructive attitude, right? They say so, I think, in the responses to the government's control. So look, Vice-President, the truth is that you are the first ones not to apply this constructive attitude, because in the management of these thirteen decrees that we are carrying out measures to deal with this crisis of the Covid have not raised the phone to talk to parliamentary groups, nor to ask us for our opinion, nor to ask us for proposals to improve the decrees, nor just to know exactly what our position was in relation to them. I mean, they didn't call, they didn't talk, and obviously, so, not even willing to agree. Frankly, your attitude is very surprising when it is true that in other areas, therefore, you constantly ask for the dialog. Therefore, I suppose you must hope that the responsibility for opposition approves the decrees or ratifies these decrees. And here's the question: who's responsible in this room? So the opposition, which will allow the ratification of the decrees, but not the government, that doesn't even raise the phone to try to explain them, contrast them and demand the favorable vote. It is to say that, Vice President, you, without doing too much work, today will find the ratification of the decrees. But it doesn't seem to be the way to do it. That when you are asking the government of the state to set up the table of the two governments' dialog, what you should do here is open the dialog with opposition. It would seem to us the most just, that what is asked for the others also applies and is done here. And it's what you just don't do, and it doesn't seem like it's a waste for a government in a crisis situation like we're in. It seems to me that you should be a little more generous and you should be... you who say so much democratic and open, and open this dialog, this line with the opposition, and that you don't. Miri, about economic measures, right? , which is, in large part, what this decree speaks of. You said today – and you said it very strongly – that there will be no details for reconstruction, which is probably what worries us most: how we will get out of this situation. But, look, we don't trust this sentence you're saying, and I'll tell you why. Because the presupposition of 2020 is to consolidate the details we carry living in Catalonia and to paint in Catalonia since 2010. The presupposition of Health 2020 is the same as that of 2010; also the one of Industry, the one of Universities, the one of Research. That is to say, they don't have to do retailing; they will consolidate them in the presupposition of 2020 by not reversing them. So, of course, he's going to do the trimmings. April 24th here was approved this premise with detail, because they did not reverse them. And we haven't said it, so have the social and economic agents and many of the entities that are painting these details. Miri, moreover, in this presupposition of 2020 there were no resources either for the poor child or for school segregation or for new residences or opening up nine places of residence or for women's policies... You said that it is true that the crisis always looks like a woman, so there were no resources for women's policies either. So he'll explain to me what reconstruction we'll do. The president said: "It seems to me that at the end of June we will have a document. Well, then, he was fine. Wait until the end of July. At the Congress of Deputies they have constituted a commission for reconstruction; here you have not had the impulse to make this commission, in fact, we have had to be the opposition groups. He was the chairman of my parliamentary group who tried to push it forward, and I hope that he can bring it to term. Now, on his own initiative, boss. You sound like a liar, don't you? , that even all the opposition you have to set up a commission to rebuild, to debate, to speak... I..., the words "dialeg, "transparency, "negotiation and "agreements, you have to want them only for the others, because you practice them very little. Miri, in this law, powerful economic measures aren't there, huh? There's no way to help businesses and families. That's the truth, they raise the payments, it's the truth – they don't suspect them, huh? They're up to you, they're up to you. And it's funny why they're running until the end of the alarm state, which I'm asking myself, how together for Catalonia and the Republican Left have already brought this past week that they wanted to finish the alarm state, I'm asking myself, Vice President, if yesterday was approved or accepted or won the ‘no', today what's going on because the companies are still stalling their tax payments. That they have a plate B? If you have won the "no to the Congress", do you have a plan B to favor businesses? Because, in fact, the only decision that you have taken to favor businesses is to suspend or postpone..., forgive me, to postpone the payment of taxes, but it is that if it were for you, then this would have ended, because they voted "not you, Republican Left and Together for Catalonia, the two groups that conform to the government". Therefore, they will explain to me what plate B they have of the great measure, the only measure that they really take. Because the president said today..., president Torra said yes, that the autonomes or businesses..., well, 7.5_million euros in helping the autonomes not compatible with others when in Catalonia we have 550,000 autonomes, go play about 3,700. Sounds like a ridiculous measure to me. Jo, in other words, it's a little bit of a pit, isn't it? Well, I don't know, I honestly don't know these measures that you're talking about, but in the decrees of the law, that's where we're going to look at the measures, they're not..., they're not. And I was wondering if we'd like to discuss it with you. In fact, we have asked for appearances; neither in fan, because this Parliament costs a lot to open it, huh? Well, we'll see what day we can make appearances, debate, contrast... because it's true that with a parliamentary question or a question of a decree we don't give time. All right, I'll go over and make some long commissions we can think about. Because, Vice President, you do give time, and, listen, it seems to me very good to make visits, and yesterday he visited the SEAT, and it's very good it's a great company in Catalonia in the automotive sector, which we are so concerned about. Now, we've been pleased that in that little veil, haven't we? In those statements he made at the event, you could have presented the government's industrial policy to save Nissan, for example. And, no, he just made some statements to say that he would vote "no to the state of alarm. So you were right, before the SEAT, to say, "Look, listen, you know what? , for reconstruction, 100_million more for industrial policy. No, we were left with the guts to listen to him say that. In short, little proposal and little economic measure to help businesses and families. After that, you've entered much of the staff issue. Because you say, "Well, that's already in the law of assumptions and so on... Yes, yes, obviously, it's increasing by 2 percent to public workers, which is certainly an agreement of the State with the unions and, therefore, this increase was to be made in a mandatory way. There is also 0.3_per_cent for funds, which settles and is agreed with the unions. And I have to say that in the year 2019, this 0.3, you, the government, unilaterally, with no agreement with the unions, he decided to put to the pension fund. But it turns out he's not in the pension fund yet. We would like to know where this 0.3 who was looking to devote to complements or different aspects granted with the unions. He's decided to put the pensions in and he's not on the pensions. We would like to know where it is, because a money that is close to public workers, of the most punished of all Spain..., because you know that they are still patenting retails, in fact, the 2013 pay has not yet recovered it. Let's hope she gets back this 2020, as she was supposed to. But it's seven years later, today, they haven't recovered it yet. That's to say, the most punished public workers, who haven't yet recovered suspected rights, in these, you........ the 0.3 that surrounded them through a fund we don't know where it is. We hope that this 2020 you will agree, and be granted and discussed with the unions, because, for the time being, it has not been so, and the attitude of Councillor Puignero has not been in this line. Dilluns rose from the table of the negotiating table without agreement for the descalation and it seems that he does not want either..., he does not want agreement in any other areas. This is his way of talking and talking, which is not just, for what it seems, with opposition, but also with social workers. But this decree has an additional fourth provision, which passes to you very unnoticed and which has not commented on, in which it is said to increase, clearly, this 2_per_cent also to the eventual charges, to the high offices of the Generality and 0.9 in the compensations of cessation to the councillors. That's to say, when the counselors stop, they get compensation and this also increases by 0.9. And they put it here with an additional fourth order. Home, honestly, do you think that the most well-paid top guys in all of Spain, who are the Catalonians, and the most poorly-paid public workers in all of Spain, who are the Catalonians, have to live this hardship? And do we have to increase this year's I'm in the top ranks and increase compensation, pensions, to the counselors when it's over? Is it what they imagined, that there would be elections soon? Home, counselor, you're businesslike. We believe that in a government, in a government that would want to be left-handed – that it is not, of course, that with its actions they are clearly straight and we will see it in today's votes, to see how they are met with the approval of some decrees – so, frankly, what would be played is dialogue, content and measures. And you, no dialogue, no content, because they say things that sometimes make us put all the hairs at the top, and measures to overcome the crisis or one. On the contrary, we push the undersides to the top, to the possible, without asking for the efforts when they are the most won and, more importantly, you think about it over and over again, bearing in mind that the year has passed that the government and the advisors have pushed the ego. The year passed, yes, and, therefore, from the expressions, because these cover according to what the President of the Parliament receives. In other words, they make themselves 'hommirate, that of the left and the dreaves, that I think they go a little lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.164.0	Well, I would really like to start my intervention, so I would also like to thank all the workers in Parliament for the fact that they are making it easier for us today in complicated times and, therefore, make it clear that I am glad to see them all and all and that I want them to be well. I'm entering the decree. You, Vice-President, have not only drawn a picture, in this case, on the concrete decree, but on the management, mainly economic, but not only, also political, of the Government on the crisis. I will also refer to it, but I would like to start by speaking specifically about this decree, but I believe that it is also applicable to the rest, and I believe that whether it was the way the government did it, I would go or not. Now it's all just a_me we've approved the assumptions, in this case, together with a good agreement of assumptions, which, despite what is said now, is clearly reverse the clippings. There was a powerful tax reform from a progressive and also ecological point of view. But from abroad, no dial. No dialog to reformulate assumptions – no assembly – no dialog to talk about reconstruction, no dialog about decrees. That is to say, I too..., it seems to me that it remains demanding with the Government of the State or, in this case, with other administrations, but there is no open dialogue with parliamentary groups, not only with those we have given support, in this case, to the assumptions or to allow their processing to discuss which measures must be taken to reformulate those assumptions. Neither with social workers; or at least they're complaining. To us, both the employer and the unions also say that they claim, for example, that it is constituted or that it is urgently called the Commission for the Follow-up of the Social Dialogue, recently approved. And it is true that initially we were moved that there was a certain weekly relationship with the government, but suddenly and again this relationship disappeared, and so do the unions as the employer. And, in fact, they have open conflicts with the unions as well. Yesterday, there was another "trembling" at the Public Service Bureau, among other things, because the Government, unilaterally, was deciding that measures claiming from the Government of the State do not want to apply to its workers in the Generality; such as the ability to have a paid permit to enable the reconciliation of those persons who are to return to their jobs. In other words, ask the government of the state what they don't want to do with their public workers. Therefore, I believe that, ultimately, one of the first motivators that would deserve this new decree is the zero dialog on the part of the Government of the Generality with the set of opposition groups. And it does not cease to be surprising in this case, in our case, since we facilitated the approval of the assumptions. Then, I think they're erratic decrees – at least it's our feeling – without clear priorities. They are a species of revolutionary decrees, in which I believe there is more campaign, I would say, electoral between different departments of different political colors that compete to see who is able to articulate the last measures, but there is no clear economic orientation. And, in fact, there was also a lot of correspondence between councillors of the same party, speaking in this case of Junts for Catalonia, to see who is able to take the last measure by – I suppose, now is not the president – to compete in the success and to place measures quickly one after the other. At least it's the feeling that they see the decrees. And the third reason is that I think it's a species of decree, in particular this..., of decree all fruits, with various related measures. That's right, don't mix a pair that I'd say, at least, they're small. One is the subsidence of the high ranks of the Generality. That is to say, I believe that secretaries-general and, in this case, directors-general too, we could have exempted the decree, as we have done, for example, with the sum of the deputies and deputies, who have fallen. We were completely in agreement with this. It might have been decided that the 2-per-cent suture did not apply, in this case, to secretaries-general and directors-general. And the other, which was not in the assumptions, which was not in agreement with the assumptions; this is new and I have the feeling that someone wanted to make this decree or wanted to place this in this decree because he thought that we went to elections, then, in the end, it seems that we did not go to elections, but someone wanted to say, "Look, let's fix a little – because in the end it's 0.9, the IPC – compensation to the ex-advisors in the event of a cessation. And they do include it in this decree, and it's new to what was supposed to be. So... I think these two motius would probably lead us to vote if we didn't. And I said we're not doing this out of responsibility, and now I'm gonna explain why, but we're going to ask him that he's being treated as projecting the law, because these two things, the push from below the top, and this 0.9 push from the compensations of the ex-advisors, we think they're going to get rid of this decree. And it said that we would facilitate, in this case, the approval of this decree basically for two things. The first is because there are..., as you made reference, the 2-per-cent rise in the sum of public workers; of all, in the end. It was a bit of a cost, because in principle, to the workforce, Mr. Puignero, who always has crazes, in this case, with the unions, so he didn't want to apply them, but in the end he was forced to apply it. And so we understand that you wouldn't feel that we're blocking, would you? , the approval of a decree, or thinking that other groups, which I think is a little what you do with the alarm decree, is to say: "We..., a political position, for example, about whether or not the alarm decree is maintained, knowing that other groups will do the work. We don't think so. It is to say, if we believe that at a time when public workers... – and specifically it has been shown that the public sector is the one that best responds, in this case, to the health and economic Emergencies – it has not felt that we leave them without the 2_per_cent boost. And, the other, to what do you also refer, to measures especially in the field, in this case, of the economic benefits of the emergence of the family emergency, right? Therefore, we understand that these two elements are fundamental and that is why we would facilitate, in this case, the processing of the decree. I did want to make some reference, and you have to look at some of the issues in the decree, and I did also make reference to Mrs. Romero..., that there are some other issues in the decree that seem questionable to us. That is to say, for example: it is about bonuses, or there are bonuses, in this case, for example, of the taxes of recreational machines and of chance, certainly linked to the state of alarm. That is to say, most of the measures in this decree are linked to the validity of the state of alarm. I'm going back to what I said before: it's like, you're theoretically against the state of alarm, but it's good that others are keeping the state of alarm, because most of the economic measures – small – that you have approved or apply in this decree – and that some are questionable as for example these – are linked to the existence of the state of alarm. That, despite part of Catalonia's citizenship and even all, in this case, for example, of bars and restaurants that are the ones that have these types of machines, mainly the dark butts, have not yet been able to open, because we are in phase zero. And I do mean that, for example, the majority of economic measures they took... and I come back to the same, that I say they're small, and some, I think you're wrong. For example, miri, I remember how it cost us – now that it's spoken, right? , from the Nissan crisis – to raise more resources for the National Pact for Industry in the negotiation of assumptions, and at the end, at the last minute, we achieved a million 13_millions, which we thought was insufficient, but which at least started to open a path. But, of course, it is that for example you have applied a generalised reduction, to everyone, to us too, of the water canon, which costs 50_million euros. Well, I don't know, I think this would have to be questionable if it felt or didn't feel from an economic point of view. But, look, there's one thing for us, too, well, I don't know if we get tired of but as it is at least contradictory, because I think it's very good to criticize the Government of the State and to spend the whole day criticizing the Government of the State – you certainly do it in a way a little bit more, say, polite or elegant than Mr. Torra does – but what's not worth it in private is to say and ask yourself that we deal with the Government of the State in order to get a foundation, in this case, not returnable, and to guarantee the liquidity of the Generality, that we stick together and get it, and you know that the foundation of 16,000_million euros to the local communities is to get a foundation, in this case, not returnable, and to guarantee the liquidity of the Generality, that we will not get the answer from the General, if you know that the foundation of 16,000 euros is to the official communities, and if you want to understand the generality of the text, if you can't get the text from the text. I think it's contradictory, because the majority of measures that the Generality can take today, I would say "short, in this case, are thanks to the managements that we have done to approve a package like what they have today from the table and that had not been done. Because I can say what it's about – and I agree – and to a state that should be confederal or federal, that's what it's about, but it's not what's happened until now or what's ever been done by a government of the state. And the other thing that... I also, you didn't say, and I'm sure you won't answer, but do you want or don't want to suspend taxes? Because, of course, the total suspension of taxes, which is what Mr. Torra is proposing, I don't know how to pay for the measures that fall and that are needed. And you say, and it's more than a lie: "We've been totally suspicious of our competitions. Then why do we make decrees? And in the decrees they make, why don't they bring us the full suspension of taxes? Because you can't make a total suspension of taxes, and I think you have to agree with me when I tell you you haven't heard a total suspension of taxes. In short, we believe that we need a dialogue, that we should start talking about how to reformulate assumptions; that we are talking about reconstruction dialogues, and that we should dialogue, not just with opposition, but with social workers. And in any case, we, I'm telling you, by responsibility, we're allowing this order to be processed. We'll see who the other orders are coming from. I'm talking about... because when it comes to votes, we'll see who they're voting with this late. But in any case, we'll ask that it's processed as the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.166.0	Good morning, all of you. First of all, we would like to explain the meaning of our vote, which will be a abstention. And it will be a abstention because some concrete measures that this decree puts forward to us suppose to advance, they may be even progressive, but at the moment, and with what we are patenting, we think they may be or are insufficient. We'll explain it to them. Before I was talking about the concrete assumption of what is meant by the rise of the water canon. We won't get into middle-class business, but let's take the example of an autonomous or an autonomous worker, an autonomous or autonomous worker. Obviously, it will be positive, but we need to go further, because the workers and the self-employed can have an alternative when we start to get out of this reality that we are patenting these days. Also, and the same or similar explanation, to which it refers to the benefit on accolliment. It is very good, and we want to give recognition to this government, which is necessary for this service, but they should do another thought, which is: if they want to give out to that scoundrel that has the father, the sea, the two seas, the family in a hospital for the Covid-19 and they pay 326_euros or 362_euros to that person who has to take care of himself in the day-to-day of his reality, then that person will have to stop working, because we have to take care of a minor, and, therefore, if he has to stop working, with 326_euros or 362_euros we have no alternative. Also, what is for us the centrality of this decree: the increase in the salaries of workers and public workers of the Government of Catalonia. We want to make different reflections. The first: what the Government of the Generality is doing if it does not do so is essentially transferred from what was a trade union agreement with the Government – after we refer – and transferred from the Royal Decree already approved by the Government of the Spanish State. You must remember that on March 9, 2018 Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF reached an agreement with the Spanish Government for which they guarantee exactly 2_percent plus 0,3_per_cent, to which we will refer. That's what the government is doing. But we want to convey two thoughts to the government. The first, in relation to increments, in the 2-per-cent band, there was also another possibility of increasing more. 2_per_cent is for stable or fixed remuneration concepts, to say the least; not only wages, salaries. But there was also the possibility of increasing them if GDP exceeded 2.1_per_cent to 2.5_per_cent. We were very alone criticizing that trade union agreement, because we said that there would be in which it would not come to this 2,1_per_cent, and now it has passed. And, therefore, we want to claim that the reality of the wage increases continues to increase the cost of living. And the cost of living is not in itself the IPC either, but the workers are dedicated to most of their tickets. That's the cost of living. And the second question, as for the 0,3 that must be devoted to plans that give response to increases in productivity and that can then go – we are not in favour – to the wrong names of pension plans. We ask the government two questions. The first is to negotiate with the most representative trade unions in the public sector. They can't do it any other way; they can't do it unilaterally. And the second: do not reproduce a bad practice, which is to end up dedicating this 0,3_per_cent to which they are misnamed"pension plans and which are actually products financed through a transfer to CaixaBank. I don't repeat that again, because we don't have to play with the speculative economy and you have to negotiate with the unions. Allow me, of course, a parenthesis: we have spoken in the last two sessions – much and necessary – of essential workers and workers, of those who are not essential will work. Today we want to talk about these people who, when they can go to work, are not going to work in the way they do a little bit more than a century ago, Francesc Layret explained: "Workers when they are out of work are not because they don't want to work, but because they want to do it in better conditions. Nissan's workers and workers these days, these past two weeks, are just making themselves vague because they want to keep their job spot. And, therefore, thankfully absolute, because it is a bet for our present and future as a class; a bet for its present and future as for workers and workers. And no one wants to make these workers and workers believe that May 28th is over; so good from May 28th it all begins. And, lastly, one of the questions that has generated much debate on the decree in this House. Look, beyond the government's possibly poor legal technique of placing the reference of the presidents on a point, we have made the study of the decree and we think that, there is or there is no such reference, here is not regulating the remuneration or compensations, better said, or compensations of the president, but other things that generate contradiction from us. We are absolutely against the 0.9 increase in the benefit or supplement for the councillors and councillors during the split, but we would be in favour and we are in favour of the widows, the widows, the civil servants who served the republic being able to see this increase, which is also what is contained in this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.168.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, this decree, like others approved by the Government, rather than alleviate the effects of the crisis of the Covid-19, what it does is really postpone them. It contains a set of measures that are necessary for the present moment, but that are not proposals to ease the situation that families and the productive sector are experiencing. The problems of Catalan families and businesses will not end the day the state of alarm is lifted or the day we put an end to this pandemic. The problems and consequences that the Covid-19 is generating will extend beyond the temporal horizon, so the measures contained in this decree law are very timid and insufficient to deal with the current situation. Chapter I of this decree contains a set of tax measures. They are necessary measures, of course they are, but they are very short-range measures. At the beginning of the health crisis, it was agreed to suspend the deadlines for the submission of self-liquidation and income tax. The decree now extends the filing and income tax periods of some own taxes at best until July 20 or two months for inheritance tax. The Decree-Law also approves a set of reductions and bonuses of certain taxes and own fees, which are limited to strictly applying to the alarm period. It is also agreed that the debts of the water canon should be deferred for up to six months, but only for the consumption in April and May of this year. All necessary measures, but they are very unambitious. And we cannot but say that economic activity has had to be paralysed and remains largely paralysed, and that when it can be reactivated it is clear that it will not do so as before the current health crisis. So this set of tax measures is not a relief for the sectors, but rather a measure that is the result of the need for a state of alarm. This new decree law is a new missed opportunity. If what the Government really wants is to alleviate the effects of the Covid-19 crisis is very easy, it just has to adopt measures to reduce the tax burden to self-employed people, SMEs and, of course, families as well. Until it is done, there will be no real and effective relief. The tax measures of this decree law are a necessary patch in the current situation, but insufficient. In the social sphere, this decree creates an emergency economic benefit for the family care of minors who, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, have been involuntaryly separated from their family nucleus. This crisis is leaving many people, especially the most vulnerable, unprotected. Minors who have had to be separated from their family nucleus because of the Covid-19 is a clear example. That is why we can come to share the creation of this emergency social aid. But, as the report accompanying this Decree-Law acknowledges, the aid and benefits in force may be insufficient to address the new situations. Thus, together with this measure created by the Decree-Law, the Government must be vigilant to the most vulnerable groups and be equally diligent in adopting emergency measures that may be needed in the near future. In managing the health crisis, we lack special attention to groups as vulnerable and sensitive as older people. We must not wait any longer to recognize that they have been the most vulnerable people to the Covid-19 and, therefore, we must protect them. And that is why we expect emergency measures from the Government such as the one created in this decree law for other vulnerable groups. In the area of the Generalitat, the decree also contains the procedure for donations that are being made to assist in the fight against the Covid-19. To point out that we are missing a regime of transparency; we would not want the donations being made to fund policies that have nothing to do with the coronavirus. Finally, I should like to point out two points. On the one hand, the staff measures, such as the increase in remuneration, have been overtaken by the approval of the Generalitat's budgets. On the other hand, the serious remark: to indicate that the 0.9 increase in pensions of former presidents and senior officials that is approved is not only not justified in terms of urgency and necessity, but also gives the feeling that you want to try to sneak through the back door, in a kind of political blackmail that we are not going to enter. If you want to adopt measures against the consequences of the Covid-19 put them in a decree, but do not put through the back door measures that are privileges for former senior officials and former presidents of the Generalitat, because there you will not find us, and therefore will justify, in that sense, our negative vote to this decree. Because what you pose is a blackmail that, I insist, we are not going to accept. In short, this Decree-Law may contain necessary measures, but they are insufficient because of the lack of ambition of the measures taken, if they are of longer scope, of longer duration and if they are indeed a relief for SMEs and families. And, as I say to you, we also do not see that it is either preceptive or of political taste that privileges are slashed through the back door in a decree that is supposed to alleviate the consequences of the Covid-19. Therefore, we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr President and Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.169.0	Thank you, Mr Serrano. Next, it's the turn of Congressman Lluís Salvado, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.170.0	Thank you, Vice President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Well, the vice president has already exposed the contents of the royal decree that today he marries on the table. And anyway, I, before I enter it, in its content, would like to make a certain contextualization. As you know, since March 11th, when the World Health Organization qualified the Covid as an international pandemic, the Government of Catalonia, as surely they had to do the vast majority of the world's military administrations, had to react quickly to do it. In fact, one day after this pandemic was declared, two decrees were already passed, the 5th and the 6th, to boost the first steps. The first decree had as its object the possibility of holding sessions of the government's executive and technical council in a telematic way, an essential enablement for the government to have its leadership in the end in adopting a whole package of very important measures to deal with the crisis in a situation of confinement. And the other, according to the decree, collected a package of urgent measures that tried to give an initial response to the initial needs, which were needed to allocate the contingency fund to meet the economic requirements derived from the pandemic so as to enable 188_million euros downstream for small and medium-sized enterprises, through the empowerment of energy contracting mechanisms. All these sets of decrees have been accompanied by other actions of the Government, and more than one hundred initiatives have been deployed, more than one hundred actions to address this situation of humanitarian crisis, social crisis and economic crisis. And, if I may, I will make a certain respite and a certain explanation of the most important measures, because feeling the interventions of some of the people who intervened a few moments ago gives the feeling that the Government has done little, when it is quite certain that if they stop reading the contents of this whole set of actions they will be able to come to the conclusion that the Government of Catalonia has had many initiatives completed. Many of them, as has also been said, have been aimed at increasing the capacity of our health system, and at a time when we have managed to overcome this situation of health and humanity crisis without our units of intensive care having reached the col·lapse. The Government has also had to adapt its telematic work and has had to multiply its administrative structure in order to cope with this situation, and has had to strengthen, for example, the SOC's civil service with more than four hundred people. And has accelerated the processing of the most urgent cases of guaranteed citizenship income. And they have chosen, for example, and they have trained workers and workers who have incorporated themselves into the field of assistance to large people to cope with the crisis. Hotels and medical spaces have been enabled to help and care for the great positive people. And they have allocated about 60_million euros to a shoal for occupation during and after the health crisis or to aid to four_ thousand autonomes. And moratoriums on the payment of the Generality's taxes have been approved, and taxes and taxes have been increased in the sectors most affected by the maturity of their activity. And with the aim of maintaining liquidity and product texture, credit and downstream lines have been approved for EUR 750_million, as you know, 10_million, more specifically for the cultural sector. And the payment of public contracts was maintained, even though the actual performance of the services was suspended due to the crisis. And a maximum price of funeral services has been set. And it's mobilized through SOC's work bag to contract the fruit campaign. A total of 142,000 feeding grants have been guaranteed by means of rechargeable currency exchanges, and 22,000 devices have been distributed with Internet connection to the most vulnerable students. And from the work of the delegations abroad, as the Solé Councillor explained a few hours ago, the return home of 1,800 people has been managed and these 2,500 citizens of our country have been reached. And there was a moratorium on the payment of the Generality's housing park logger. And, to close this brief summary, exhausted people, will subsidize the contracting of two hundred techniques for the long-term strategic planning of the socioeconomic reactivation of local administrations. It is intended to accompany from the Government, with this measure, the local administrations, a measure of reactivation that is also carried to term, as it was also possible to explain this morning, from the same Government through an agreement of May 2, that sets aside the drafting and elaboration of this plan for economic and social reactivation, and that we will certainly have the occasion in the future, in future parliamentary sessions, to be able to treat it with detention in this Parliament. And within the framework of all this extensive package of measures is the decree that we are now debating; a decree that forms part of this whole and that tries, ask for it, decree to decree, resolution, give a global response from the Government of Catalonia to the situation that we have at these times, in this new reality. A new reality that has changed all the usual day-to-day settings, people, families, businesses, workers and workers, as well as public services and administrations. And in this decree, as has been further discussed, aspects such as the suspension of the time limits for the presentation of self-liquidations in the area of property and assigned taxes, for greater legal certainty, referred to on March 14. And to the margin of this precision, the decree adjusts details relating to the processes of payment and settlement of various taxes, and thus facilitates the compliment of tax obligations to taxpayers. And special moratoriums and reductions in type and bonuses apply; a whole set of surgical measures, not a general suspension. Surgical measures aimed at preserving the fairness and fairness of our tax system, as well as the circumstances that affect us. The decree also incorporates – as has also been explained – measures to address the situations generated by the involuntary separation of the parents affected by the pandemic from their younger children, and creates this benefit for the gathering of these children and encourages the search for families trained to respond to this need. And the title IV of the decree confirms the increase in remuneration for the year 2020 for the staff of the entire public sector of the Generalitat: of all the universities, of the teachers of the concerted educational centers, for hundreds of thousands of public servants. And unfortunately, some of the 200,000 people affected by this decree come out of the mix at a few, because it seems to me that today what we're planting and putting from the table is globality, it's the category and not the anecdote. On the other hand, the additional provision according to the decree authorizes the public enterprise Infrastructures. to prioritise, as a matter of urgency, the deployment of a public optical fibre network; various sections of this public network. It seems that it is one of the positive and important initiatives that the government is making, all the situation that we are currently patenting. It is obvious that in these moments the deployment of fiber is important, because the increase of teletreball, the increase of telematic processing, has been very important, but it is obvious that it is a very important initiative for the future: to have a public trunk infrastructure of optical fiber with high levels of security, with continuity, is a measure of territorial balance, it is a measure of fairness essential in order to reduce the digital breta and to give equal opportunities to all the citizens of our country. In summary, with this and the rest of the decrees approved by the Government, an extraordinary deployment of measures has been completed, putting the life of the citizenry at the centre of government action, trying to respond to the structural conditions of our society, which this crisis has put more into evidence, and is trying to respond to the needs of the economy resulting from this situation. From proximity to problems, from proximity to citizenship is when an effective response is given to the needs of the country. And despite this state of recent alarm and the fact that the State has drawn many of our powers, the Catalan government has been playing when it played, without ever giving up its responsibility for the totality of the country and for the totality of its citizenship, with or without competition, and very often a step forward from the rest of the competent administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.171.0	Thank you, Mr. Saved. Finally, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of MP Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.172.0	Thank you. Good morning, Vice President Costa. MPs, MPs, certainly, we are ahead of a reality that we could imagine and, much less, remember; a health crisis at the global level: officially, 315,000 deaths from the world – surely there are many more – and millions of infected, and, only at home, more than 11,700 people who have already died. So, start with my record of all of them, and also extend my condolences – from the whole group, too – to those who have suffered a loss from an esteemed person and, in fact, some of you have touched you a lot. This is the hardest face we're talking about today, the hardest face we're living. Our pain, obviously; your pain is our pain too. In the wake of the health crisis, the Covid is causing an unprecedented social and economic crisis, of which we are still seeing the worst consequences. The governor of the Bank of Spain told us, for this year the forecast is that GDP falls between 9 and 13_per_cent. When the first quarter data came out, in fact, I think most of us were surprised by how negative they were for spending only 15 days of confinement. I remember: the worst year of the last crisis, GDP fell by 4.4_per_cent. Therefore, we would now be talking about an effect of the triple of that magnitude. We're talking about this. So, if we don't fix it, if we don't make sure the measures are taken and if we don't take them when it comes to them, then we can be ahead of a crisis of incalculable effects. What happened? Covid-19, therefore, forced that all non-essential activity be temporarily carried out, that the people are confined to their homes, and, therefore, now it is up to the administrations to face a double task. For a band, therefore, to make this lock, which was temporary, not to become permanent. Let those viable negotiations, that future work places, make it, that is reactivating. And, at the same time, to deal with the consequences that many families are patenting for vulnerability, loneliness, isolation, male violence, mental health problems, etc. The economic crisis that we are experiencing, in fact, is very different in origin from what we started here..., started in 2008, because the origin itself is not in the economy, but it is alien to it, and therefore this can be good news. That is, the economics, the growth expected from the 1st and the Mig, a turnaround of the 10_per_cent, can be good news because, if we do things right, they can bring us to a easier recovery. Certainly, for the negative band, so we have that the evolution of the health crisis is uncertain and that a _anonada may be a reality. What kind of consensus is there among the experts, coming from where? That the measures are swift, that they are blunt and that they are capillary. Because we understand, that we do not cheat four years to make decisions, like the other time; that we do real measures and not only those that cause debt to families, and that we do not make plans E, that only the four of us always benefit. Therefore, it is time to act, but they must be real measures: it is not worth Pedro Sánchez emulating Mario Draghi's speech that he will do whatever he pleases, and then do nothing, or that we spend millions of euros on campaigns that say "This virus we stop together, so much so that we like the word "united". It's time for real measurements. And that's what President Torra's government has been focused on: to be proactive, to rule, to take responsibility and to serve all the tools that it has, despite the fact that these tools are very minute and are much smaller than we would like, given the years we carry of re-centralisation and tax policy. The decrees we make today are an example, but not just the ones we bring today, all that the Executive Council and the departments of the Generality have approved. Deputy Salvado made a summary. Certainly, from the upswing of taxes; the reduction to 50_percent of the water canon – which seems not to like –; the 1,000_million euros in credits and endorsements; more than 75_million euros per year, for employment, for insertion projects; 27_millions for self-employed, workers affected by ERTO; subsidies to trade, tourism; campaigns, aid to the most affected sectors; plans for sport weaving; re-priorization of cultural spending to ensure liquidity..., and as we have not talked enough, also optical fiber projects, which are funamental in this new reality. Certainly, all these measures that have been taken with clarity, with legal certainty and predictability, not like the ones we have seen with corrections and counter-corrections in the BOES, that is, in the morning. Examples of the willingness of President Torra, the Government, because actually the cost of this crisis, and the effort of this crisis, fall to the administrations and not to the citizens, workers, autonomes and pimes. And this, to a large extent, has to be done with an extended assumption for the further exercise of filibusterism of Ciutadan's companies. Now it's time to go a lot further. It is important to go further so that many more measures can be taken, which is why the Economic and Social Recovery and Protection Plan has been set up, in order to have a global plan that is right and that responds to all the needs in the economic and social spheres. But to make adjustments in the premise, which certainly, when it was designed, so we can't imagine what's going on, we'll need more tools and we'll need more resources. And here the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias is very late in their obligations. On March 20, it is said, more than two months ago, the President of the European Commission activated the clause that allows the state to skip the limits of deficit and public debt. It's more than two months ago. Nor does it say, here nothing has been transferred; as if this had not happened. So much so that the European Commission itself reminded the Government of Pedro Sánchez of yesterday that it would not punish for overdeficit and, please, do whatever it takes to get out of this crisis. We do not know the European resources that will come to us, we do not know when we will be paid more than 400_millions that give us the concept of VAT, we do not know what happens to the incompliments that the governments of Rajoy, governments of Pedro Sánchez and now of Sánchez and Iglesias have with Catalonia. Yesterday, we came back to see the reviews by social entities that reported that they would reach zero_euros of 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF. I suppose the one-man command has these things. But that's not whimsical, that's not independence, that's needed for families, that's needed for the Catalan fabric, that's now more important than ever. That's why we also want to ask the socialists, the ordinarys, what do they think they're going to say to their parties in Madrid? While passing military by the press wheels, the SEPE has col·lapsate. There are eighty thousand Catalans who have not yet charged EERT and more than two months ago. If so many winners had the army do something useful, they would have sent it between papers. Because the reality we have today is that the most progressive government of history is to overthrow competition, abuse power, not give response to citizens and the most vulnerable, spend more than 2,000_million euros in tanks for the army, allow banks to negotiate with ICOs and give help to businesses that have their own in tax havens. President Tora said this before: "Never had so many been disappointed. It is time for you to return your skills, to give service to the workers who have people in charge and who will not be able to return to their work places because the choices are closed, because the day centres are closed, or because the new reality prevents them; to take tax measures in the big state taxes because they are tied to economic recovery and activity; to get the money promised, that it is not only announced; to allow the debt of the administrations so that we can really help; that we can serve the Romans of the three times of the meetings; that they change the law of the rule of the expense, because with me the socialists do more than two years ago that they can not follow the governments of the world. Because if not, it would be quite curious for the government of socialists and commons to end up forcing the autonomous administrations or local administrations to go into detail because you simply do not want to allow them to be indebted. Yesterday our companies in Madrid, Congresswoman Laura Borràs, asked for all this again. All that and more. Measures that are essential, and measures that you are deciding not to take. They like to repeat that Spain is a social, democratic and right state. We already know that with reprisals, political prisoners and exiles, it is not. Democratic, after seeing how the ballot boxes are being chased and how this Parliament is mortified, let's forget about it. And social, well, seeing how they're treating the citizenry and the little protection they're giving him maybe it won't be either. I'll do it again. The measures must be taken, they must be taken now: celerity, contundancy and capillary. And it would add: political consensus and concert with entities and sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I am telling you, once the debate is over, that the vote on the validation of this decree will continue with the rest of the votes, as we said at first, and so... [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cid, say'm... thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.174.0	For allusions to our parliamentary group of Mrs Artadi. No, I welcome in this case that the ideological battle is won and that I am now defending the program that we have always defended in Comú Podemos. In any case, I'm telling you that this government will bring more than €3,000_million to the generality because most of the measures they're announcing couldn't pay them without the agreement that we've achieved, and they're already spending more than €1,000_million per month that the state government pays, in this case, for workers' and workers' benefits so that they don't lose their job. I liked it. [[Funnel veils]] Mr. But and his government, because you were in his government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.175.0	Mr. Cid, it's been 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.176.0	...didn't apply the details you applied. [[Some applause. Long break.]] I'll explain to you how we're going. We will vote on all the debates that took place this morning. In the first place, the vote on the nomination of the senator of autonomous designation. They know it's a specific plethora, so we'll act as if you're celebrating the specific plethora, even though we'll vote together with the rest of the decrees. We'll vote on the decrees this morning, and the rest of the points that are still pending, are to vote on the evening, also following the same dynamic: after the debates, we'll vote on all the points, okay? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on corruption in Catalonia]] [[401-00031/12]] Before..., we formally close the ordinary session and make the specific appointment of the senator, but in any case before we close the ordinary, we will, as we said before, read the second institutional statement we read today. Ask the secretary, Mr. David Pérez, who reads it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.177.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on corruption in Catalonia. Corruption is one of the major threats to democratic societies. According to Transparency International, a non-profit organization that analyses corruption all over the world, it could define this phenomenon as the abuse of a certain position of power to obtain a private benefit, whether by means of legal or illegal conduct. Corruption generates inefficient allocation of resources, disrupts free competition, expels some actors from the market and creates a climate of clear legal insecurity affecting the country's economy. But this is not the main reason for fighting corruption. Corruption has a clear negative impact on citizens' confidence in the political system and institutions. Corruption harms democracy and its legitimacy, as institutions and political actors who end up with corrupt practices only participate in the democratic process to gain private benefits and do not pursue the general interest that should be pursued by all political actors. Corruption is the main enemy of the common good that should guide the activity and actions of all institutions in the country. Catalonia has not been exempt from the problems arising from political and institutional corruption. Over the past few years, there have been a number of cases that have remained legitimate for the institutions and political actors we are part of. Recently, the Supreme Court's condemnation of Catalonia's Democratic Convergence for having been illegally financed through the Palau de la Música has been known. The sentence obliges him to return the €6.6 million. It is necessary a condemnation of these facts and a solid compromise against these practical ones, which have characterized a way of doing politics and a certain historical moment. The Parliament of Catalonia strongly rejects the facts and practices condemned and demands from the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia the swift return of the €6.6 million spent on public archives. A solid democracy requires that citizens can rely on their institutions and that abuses of power for private benefit do not go unpunished. Only from the maximum institutional transparency and the application of good practices in the exercise of power, and by devoting the necessary administrative, judicial and institutional resources to it, can one of the main problems for the citizens of Catalonia be solved. A problem that not only generates economic, political and social inefficiency, but also undermines the trust that should exist between society and its rulers. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its total and unanimous rebuff of any corrupt, arbitrary or discretionary practice that involves an attempt against the good institutional functioning that must characterize all the institutions of Catalonia, and, in particular, for its topicality and gravity, rejects the action that motivated the condemnation confirmed to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia in the case of the Palau de la Música. The people of Catalonia deserve a long-term democracy. Palau del Parlament, May 21 of 20.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.178.0	Thank you, Secretary Perez. We formally raise the session from the ordinary session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.179.0	Let's move to the extraordinary session to designate... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, say'm. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we'll vote later. First, as I said, we will vote first on the senator's appointment and then we will vote on the rest of the points to be voted on this morning, which are the decrees and also the winding-up reports of Parliament's budget, yes? [[Pause.]] Okay. For that matter, we'll pass... We begin the extraordinary session, which knows that the senator's appointment is to be made with an extraordinary session. Therefore, we formally suspend the ordinary and begin this new one, just as I said, to vote for the appointment of a senator to represent the Generality in the Senate. I would say to them that for this plenary session, as I said to the principle, they have delegated their votes to eighty-seven Members and Members, twenty-four Members and Members have joined the telematic vote, and twenty-three Members are the ones who will vote in person. [[Procedure for appointing a Senator to represent the Generality in the Senate]] [[280-00004/12]] The only point on the agenda of this specific session is the procedure for appointing a senator to represent the Generality to the Senate, taking into account the vacancy caused by the resignation of Ms. Marta Pascal and Ms. Capdevila. In this sense, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia has proposed the appointment of Mrs Assumption Castellví and Auví, who has submitted the required documentation. I must warn you that the Committee on the Status of Deputies has ruled that it does not compete for any cause of ineligibility and that the candidate has formally stated that if she is elected, she will accept the charge. So, according to what Law 6/2010 establishes, we continue to vote on the proposal for the appointment of Assumption Castellví and Auví as Senator, because you represent the Generality in the Senate. I remind you that the vote will be digital, but secret. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. It is understood that the votes in favour are in favour of the designation; the votes against, against that designation. Let's get to the vote. The vote's on. Mrs Castellví's candidature was approved by 90 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.180.0	Let us now proceed to the vote on the remaining points pending to vote in relation to what was discussed this morning. [[Member compatibility situation (continuation)]] [[234-00007/12, 234-00014/12, 234-00029/12, 234-00046/12, 234-00057/12, 234-00061/12, 234-00068/12, 234-00069/12, 234-00070/12, 234-00091/12, 234-00128/12, 234-00135/12, 234-00139/12, 234-00141/12, 234-00144/12 and 234-00149/12 to 234-00168/12]] And, first of all, we vote on item 3 on the agenda, which is the compatibility situation of the Members, okay? [[Pause.]] Point number three of the order of the day, yes? The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. [[Compliment of the expenditure presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2019 (continuation)]] [[237-00005/12]] We now vote on point 4, that is, the report on the Report on the Complimentary Presupposition of Expenditures of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2019, yes? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. [[Compliment of the expenditure presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 December 2019 (continuation)]] [[237-00006/12]] And now we vote point 5, that is, the Report on the Complimentary Expenditures Presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 December 2019. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. [[Decree-Law 11/2020 of 7 April, on which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementarities (continuation)]] [[203-00036/12]] And we are voting now on item 7 of the agenda, namely, the validation of Decree 11/2020, of 7 April, for which social and administrative economic measures are taken to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementarities. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – corresponding to 41 who voted affirmatively in the 24 votes by telematics –, 4 against and 65 abstentions. Therefore, this decree is validated. And I'm close to asking... some groups have already expressed it since the Faristol, so I understand that you do want to vote for the processing of this decree as the bill, right? [[Pause.]] Put your vote on. The vote begins. This decree will be dealt with as the bill, since there have been 69 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to the forty-one present and delegates to the twenty-four telematic votes – and no abstention. So, as I said, this Decree 11/2020 is going to deal with it as the bill. There are no more opportunities to vote this morning, so let's suspend the session until two-quarters of the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.181.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biology]] [[401-00032/12]] The first point of the order of the day this late is, as we advanced in the morning, the reading of the institutional declaration that was planned for this moment, for the first hour of the late, that is the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. In this sense, ask the secretary, Mrs. Laura Vílchez, who reads it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.182.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biology. On the occasion of the celebration, on May 17, of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biology, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses one year more its adherence to the commemoration of the day and the need to continue working against all discrimination on grounds of emotional and sexual orientation or gender identity. Only thirty years ago, on May 17, 1990, the World Health Organization eliminated homosexuality from the list of mental disorders, but transsexuality continued to the list. For years after that, the date of May 17 was officially recognized in the Spanish State as the Day Against Homophobia, which included gaifobia, lesbophobia, transphobia and biphobia. Only two years ago, in 2018, the WHO eliminated transsexuality from its manual of malalties, considered until then a mental disorder. This manual will enter into force on 2022. From then on, society has advanced to the desire for equality and non-discrimination. In 1998 the Parliament approved the first law of pairs of facts of the Spanish State, which regulated the relationship between pairs of different sex and the same sex. In 2005, the Congress of Deputies approved Law 13/2005 on equal marriages between persons of the same sex. The Spanish State was the third country in the world to recognize it. It must be borne in mind that today's equal marriage is only recognized in twenty-six countries and that homosexuality is still persecuted in seventy countries, in fourteen of which the death penalty may be the death penalty, and in some other twenty-six the maximum penalty may vary between two years and a perpetual chain. The year 2014 the Parliament of Catalonia gave green light to Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. A law claimed for the LGBTI collection, which recognizes, makes visible and asserts the sexual and genera's diversity and expression, and which must allow, with its deployment, to fight against discrimination and inequalities still existing. The reality, however, says that we are still in a situation of true equality and freedom to estimate. And this indicates to what extent it is important not to lower the guard and continue working to achieve the quotas of equality and respect that a democratic society claims. The Catalan Parliament wants to show all its support and recognition to people who have been persecuted and who have suffered less, discrimination or rape for identity or sexual orientation. There's a lot of space to focus on moving towards real equality. Fóbia al col·lectiu LGBTI is present between young and new generations, and causes exclusion from work. Moreover, the lectuary is not represented in the communication media. On the other hand, I want to pay more attention to the lesbian women's lesson. Many invisibilities, miss the cosification and lack the resources to be able to respond to the needs. And also transgender people, who constantly suffer from structural discrimination, which is reflected in the fact that the percentage of unemployment in this collection is 80_per_cent and discrimination in the field of health badly is still present. There are countries where the life expectancy of transgender women does not exceed thirty-five years. That is why the Catalonian Parliament also claims to protect LGBTI people and to give them refuge. Much work remains to be done to make every effort to achieve full equality and respect for people in all diversity. The Parliament of Catalonia recognises freedom and equality between all people in a democratic and plural society. And he asks the institutions and society to compromise to eradicate all discrimination and violence because of gender identity or affective and sexual orientation. Thus, the Parliament of Catalonia declares its commitment to do so and condemns all aggression against the people of the LGBTI community. Palau del Parlament, May 21, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.183.0	Thank you. [[Decrees of 12/2020, of 10 April, on which presuppositionary measures are taken, in relation to the Comprehensive Health System for Public Use of Catalonia, in the tax area and in the structure of the Administration of the Generality, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19, and 13/2020, of 21 April, on which urgent structural and organisational measures are taken, as well as measures in the field of public sector entities of the Administration of the Generality]] [[203-00037/12 and 203-00038/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The eighth point is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 12/2020, of April 10, for which presuppositional measures are taken, in relation to the comprehensive public health system of Catalonia, in the tax area and in the structure of the Administration of the Generality, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19. As agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen, this debate corresponding to the validation of Decree 12/2020 is done jointly with point 9 of the order of the day, that is to say the validation of Decree 13/2020 of 21 April, for which urgent structural and organizational measures are taken, as well as measures in the field of public sector entities of the Administration of the Generality. The parliamentary groups will have twelve minutes each for their interventions, and according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, first and foremost to defend the two decrees, has the word Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.184.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. As he said earlier this morning, before the good health data, or the best data, in the evolution of the pandemic and the advance to the stages of decontainment, we are all aware that this pandemic has not ended; that it has improved, that the crow has folded and is entering, therefore, in terms of us infected and dead people in figures equivalent to those of the first days, but that our struggle has not ended, and that the risk of a new outbreak has not disappeared. And, therefore, let's ask again, let's reiterate once again the need for citizen consciousness, which is the only way to get to a new rebound. And obviously, from the Government of the Generality we do not lower the guard and we are working to continue being prepared to attend to a new round, if given the case. Now we are prepared, unlike the principles of March, when the rapid transmission of the Covid-19 took on a good part of Europe and the world. The rapid action of the Government of the Government of Catalonia to increase the capacity of the health care system, both in the name of beds, of beds of criticism, as of staff, allowed us not to get to the col·lapse despite the enormous difficulties at a time when much of the world had the same needs that we had. Certainly, the health emergence took us, therefore, unsuspecting, or not with sufficient preparation, due to the non-existent knowledge that there had been a few months ago about the Covid-19. The news coming from the Xina seemed to be lune, with information, therefore, fragmented, and there was a feeling that distance would prevent the spread of the virus and that in the worst of cases it would not affect us in the same way. In this sense, I think I should be humble and recognize that we didn't know what they were facing. We didn't know, we didn't know the extraordinary contagious ability of this virus; we didn't know that it was possible to transmit the disease before it had any symptoms; we didn't know the symptoms or the ability to spread the names' asymptomatic cases, which are those people who were infected without any symptoms. Now we have more information, we know how it works and we have the accumulated experience to take the necessary steps to avoid getting infected, and we also know, badly, as is lethal, the malaise for certain collections, especially in people over seventy years of age and with previous respiratory conditions. We know that, and we've been through our homes and our big people's residences. Residences that have been designed, have been designed to care for people with difficulty for good's sake, and that the family environment does not have the opportunity to give them adequate attention. The effects for the mortality of this collection, of our great people, have been dramatic, and should be recognized. And I'm sorry, and I won't fool them, because the generation of our opinions and heresies, with everything they've lived, deserve a few years later and a better, more humane, warmer bite than the need has caused, the circumstances we have to deal with, at the death of Covid-19. They owe them as much as the generation, so much. They are the ones who have raised this country after a war, they are the ones who have been at the forefront of the democratic struggle and the construction of the welfare state. That's why it's especially hard, painful, seeing as, so many great people have died these days without their family members having been able to eat as they deserve. The system of residences we have created, which have created different governments over the last few years, over the last forty years, is a conglomerate of titles, forms of management and offer of services of great complexity. Moreover, if not in the case of those who work from an unequivocal public service, they all have a shared objective: to guarantee the highest quality of life to the great people at the length of their later stage of life. Quality of life for a very vulnerable community, with a very advanced average age – eighty-four years of average residences – and in most cases – a 90_per_cent – with significant preventable pathologies that remain autonomous and that in the context of a viral disease, therefore, their immune system is more vulnerable than that of the rest of the population. Therefore, providing quality of life is and was the primary function of residences, especially until after two months. But it is true that this primordial function of residence, that it is equipping the great people that cannot be worth for themselves of an adequate quality of life, has changed overnight with the arrival of the Covid-19. In Catalonia we have 1,073 residences, with about sixty-thousand places of care character, which suddenly have gone from being infrastructure, to being a functional space with a residential care visit to covering some health needs, some health needs, which is not easy to offer in a general and rapid way to a system as diverse as that of the residents of great people in our home. In order to do this, the Government of Catalonia decided to restructure the competitions in the field of residential centres and to locate them until a few weeks ago, while the pandemic situation lasted, under the umbrella of the health system and, at the same time, to strengthen the most comprehensive public control instruments in all the residences, both public and private, in which the Government also participates with concerted places. And here I would like to highlight an immense effort, we could say an effort, of many people, mainly from the professionals of our country's resident system, to overcome the logic of care and how they have done to move to a health logic in question of days. An effort equivalent to what has been done from the health system to multiply the number of hospital beds, the name of ICUs, and that without any doubt has helped us to save lives. Because changing the logic, the functioning, does not only imply a change of ownership in the competitions – but as a government, in which all management and responsibilities are always shared – but also implies a strengthening of supervision. Also an important mobilization of personnel and resources in a context where the health personnel are already very tense, already escá, and where the material resources, and especially the protection material, and concretely during the first weeks of the pandemic..., therefore, the suppliers markets were absolutely altered and it was extraordinarily complicated to be able to access the name of the health material in the appropriate quantity to protect professionals from health and professionals from residences. But we're doing the learning, we're doing it collectively, we're doing the system, and we're doing it, obviously, the ones who have responsibilities, an accelerated learning. Never had any government in this country faced a health crisis of this magnitude and complexity. To make a good learning and to complete it, it will be essential to assume certain criticisms, such as, for example, the difficulties before, in order to be able to offer individual protection material to the residents in order to avoid the spread of the disease. In this sense, I would like to thank the efforts of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, because precisely at the time when the suppliers' markets were closed, at the time when they had also produced a normal change from the state of alarm, with the centralization of the purchase of material, decided to boost own purchases, decided to look for us importers and allowed the massive removal of material, which in the subsequent weeks has been normalizing the situation for which it protects residences. A lack of material that affected public and private centers. But, as I said, since the first minute we've done everything in our hands to get this material purchase. The priority has always been to save lives. We have placed the interest of the citizenry first, at the time of taking decisions and deciding priorities. And, therefore, the change of ownership in the structure of the government, of which is control, supervision, all the question of the residences of large people, was the transit that was produced before a pandemic in which we needed to medicalize the system. And here we have continued thanks to the collaboration, as it cannot otherwise be, between the two departments, as it continues to be produced now, therefore, that it is from the Department of Health, from primary care, that there is this health direction to the residences, as this collaboration continues now. This late will also debate the creation of a commission of inquiry into residential centers. Be transparent. We have no problem in explaining ourselves, there is no obstacle in being able to facilitate all the information: how was the decision making, explaining and remembering what were the conditions in which we found ourselves in the toughest days before the pandemic. For democratic salvation, and also to culminate in this collective learning, to make it better for the future, it is essential to give the explanations that exist. And for this reason, unlike other countries, other territories, all the data on the residences, also the dead that are produced at the residences, are part of the data of victims that we, on the evolution of the pandemic, are offering daily. Some of these data are not required from the Ministry of Health at the time of preparing global statistics, certainly; but we believe it was a transparency exercise to explain not only those cases where there was a diagnostic done through a PCR, but also suspicious cases. Often we see how they have examples of this transparency of country data with France or Belgium, but Catalonia has also been applying this policy of transparency of data from the moment when it was possible to give them homogeneously and to ensure that the information collection system, therefore, was sufficiently robust. Obviously, I would like to point out that in no case has there been any bad or bad practice on the part of the Government, as was suggested in some sector. It has faced with all the difficulties, with all the complexity, to an epidemic that has particularly affected the great people. I would like to make a recognizance, before, therefore, to deal with the other aspects of the law decree, a recognizance to all the staff who have faced this very complex, dramatic situation, for their effort and dedication. A staff who..., all of us who are in this room today are convinced that we know people, have family or friends who work – and who are basically friends and family, because it is a particularly feminized sector, that of the work of the cures – in residences and have been able to explain to us firsthand how they have been accompanying the great people, who have seen themselves, at one time and another, as part of the building, as altering their day-to-day habits, and especially in people who have an important vulnerability, who, therefore, have a part of their skills, some of them also from the point of view of knowledge, of their abilities for mental health, in some cases deteriorated, is very important to be able to maintain routines. Routine alteration and alteration in family visits is also a fundamental aspect that has forced us to manage complex residences. And, therefore, I want to thank all the professionals who have been to the little part of the cano, who have been to the little bed, to the little residence, and also obviously, in the health field, to the little ICU and to the little bed of critics. So, when we get through this situation and we go on and we design the reconstruction of the country, the same way we have to take into account the health personnel, we have to conjure up, not just with applause, the healing work, because it's an essential, basic job to be able to talk about quality of life. And, therefore, as the government of Catalonia we are open to debate to bring up to date the residential model of our country, to explain also the accumulated deficits of decades of infra-financing, decades of a deployment that has been made based on needs and that has now become much more robust. A debate that must be the object of this committee of Parliament, from my point of view, and that must be able to analyze whether the current model is the desirable one or to introduce modifications that improve and ensure a quality of life and the dignity of people living in the last years of life. We are open to this debate and we must do so in an honest, rigorous way, with the necessary sensitivity, because we must be very aware of these figures which are communicated every day there are people, there are these figures, there are people, many, therefore, known and esteemed for us, there are people who have family and who have had a life that we hope has been as full as possible. Therefore, we are prepared to face this debate with the objective of meeting the needs of the great people, and not meeting other needs. Therefore, this is one of the fundamental aspects that concretely states this decree: as the evolution of government management was already medicalizing – if I may say so – the residency system maintained the essential collaboration, as it had been produced from the pandemic's beginnings, between the Department of Health and the Department of Work and Social Affairs. One of the measures that are also provided for in this law, of another kind, but obviously related to the Covid-19, is to re-regulate the contingency fund to allow the generation of credit to meet any need for health care expenses arising from the pandemic, and that can be done up to two months after the alarm state rise. It must not be because of lack of presupposition, it must not be because of the degeneration of the presuppositional parties, which must lack resources. We put all our capacity in it, we put all our priorities in it and, therefore, we make legislative changes to the necessary contingency fund. Also included in this decree was a chapter dedicated to regulating the new system of charging for services and payment to health centres and organizations working through the health concert or other types of contracts for the Català de la Salut Service within the integrated health system of public uses, the Siscat. As you know, these entities, such as the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, such as the Hospital de Sant Pau, such as the Hospital de Terrassa, the Hospital de Mataró, etc., the relationship they have to obtain the resources to finance their activities is based on a system of rates that, therefore, pays per activity carried out. And it is obvious that the treatment of the coronavirus was not in the cataleg, let's say, of treatments that have a tariff on the side and, therefore, calia incloure-ho, and for this reason it has been included. Obviously, a cost calculation system that also pays for all other health areas outside the Siscat, which have been placed under the control of the Health Department in the pandemic situation, because obviously the hospital activity is not free in any case, you have to pay professional, you have to pay infrastructure, you have to pay, therefore, the material, drugs, etc. Therefore, all these health entities will allocate a multitude of resources to a health activity that was not planned and will cease to do so by others that at the present time, so... before a pandemic, it has been considered that priority should be given to caring for the pandemic. Therefore, the system must adapt..., with the objective of avoiding that these entities that are ultimately the hospitals of our country, which together with the hospitals of the ICS conform to the integral health system of public uses of Catalonia..., therefore with the objective that there are no problems of treasuries, nor economics, nor finance. It's the worst that you've ever been through this pandemic: that hospitals are left without economic resources. And, therefore, it is necessary to regulate the system to properly equip it with these resources, these foundations. And so, lastly, I want to highlight for what it does to Decree Law 13/2020, which is one of the two that I present today, which establishes that physical or legal persons who are paying a logger, a surface right or an administrative concession or any other real right for a immovable property of the Government of Catalonia have the right..., is the regulation of the right to demand an increase or a reduction in the payment of income, of the payment of the logger. This measure also includes the immobile proceeds of the heresies in question, and will be effective while the state of alarm lasts, and will extend until six months after the end of this use of this constitutional requirement. Solicitors will have to credit a vulnerable economic situation, caused by the crisis of the coronavirus, in the case of habitat loggers, or a reduction in the billing volume in other types of leases. And the return, this adjournment... will, therefore, have to return the import during the next thirty-six months without any type of interest. They are therefore measures which are contained in these two decrees of law, which are fundamental, it is fundamental that they can be validated in order to guarantee, first of all, that I continue the health-care address on the residences of our country and, obviously, to guarantee the system of providing the economic resources to a good part of the hospital care system of Catalonia. That is why they ask for their vote in favour of validation. Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.185.0	Thank you, Vice President. Now it is the turn of the different parliamentary groups, and in the first place there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.186.0	Thank you, President. I can do it from the escó, I guess... yeah. Well, thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies, deputies and people who will be following us, good afternoon to everyone. A first record again at 27,888 dead for the Covid that we carry to Spain, of which 11,723 to Catalonia, a 42_per_cent. And especially today, since we have to validate a decree related to the residences, a very special record to the 3,913 Catalans dead to the residences. Once again, from the escho of the Parliament of Catalonia, let all our family and friends recover our condolences; let the earth follow them. I also want to repeat one more time the message of gratitude to all the workers who have made life possible in Catalonia, from the health care workers, passing through all, to the last row. Vice President, much victim and little self-criticism in his words. Today you are bringing to debate a decree that is up late to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by this Covid-19: the Decree of 12/2020, structured into four chapters to address some of the major problems of this health crisis, a decree that demonstrates once more that the public-private management debate that many of you have done before the pandemic does not serve and that their disposition has been essential to save lives. The work in the network is required, even though some vaginas are under pressure, as you explained, and others are under tariff. Remember, in order not to forget, that Catalonia needs all health structures. You were mentioning some of them now. By the way, we'll need them in October, too. So it doesn't fall into the tempt, when the drums of the elections sound, to return to the old mantras of old, because they already see that they need them, even though it's only for that, they need them all. They've all moved. In the first place, Chapter 1, intended to expand the contingency fund, as a temporary measure until the alarm state ends. It is necessary to extend the credit and allocate it to the health and social-health expenditure required by the pandemic. Nevertheless, since the opposition we would be well fond of ensuring that the money is actually destined for these indisputable and well-necessary purposes. Following the decree, Chapter 2, with measures to implement the public health system, which has suffered an exceptionality without precedent, and has forced its ability to do so much from the very top, with great reorganisations and failing to do many of the things normally required and which will have consequences for the future. It is about approaching the confinement of the pathology and what it will be necessary to do when this end. It is necessary to arrange and redirect all resources to fight the pandemic. Let no one forget the 824,000 patients who were already there, to the waiting list; much more now. Here we can address the new form of payment to all entities of the Siscat and renew their finances to make them sustainable. It is the way to provide economic stability to the entities that are working for the salvation of all Catalans. It is necessary to give economic support to the health centres of the Siscat brand, while maintaining its obligation of notification and activity register and realizing an additional billing for its extraordinary activity. Nice job, the one they've all done. The intensity of resources for the pandemic does not precede – you said so too – and this should be kept in mind. They already know that the Health premise has been approved for you – and this has not been commented on – is insufficient, and more than that I do not respond to the real needs that will leave us with the post-Covid crisis. Perhaps here I would like to think that the same formula could be implemented to increase the name of PCRs and serological tests per day. If we can look at it to assist incoming patients, then you could do the same to perform tests that take advantage of the entire available structure of the care network and thus help the process of descalation. In other words, this extended hand also served to work folds, adding efforts and proposed ideas and with always constructive intent. Caldria, Vice-President, has already foreseen the payment of the remuneration supplements, the DPOs, also for the concerted centres, that it is obvious that they will not complement the economic balance and that they deserve to be charged. I wish I could hear it from her, like the rest of her. Up late in Parliament, this decree, because Chapter 3 is a tax measure intended for the water canon designed for hotels, campsites, etc., that were not working. The state of alarm did not allow them, and the decree provides for the removal of the minimum consumption until now. It's obvious that if the alarm state didn't let them work, they wouldn't be able to collect that minimum. And finally, chapter four, a great thing, right now, that no one can question, and that's the big problem you've had with forgetting the residences. The decree – I see that now the councillor has left, but... – tries to attribute the skills of the residences, until now assigned to Work, Social Affairs and Families, to the Department of Health – perhaps that's why he left. This epidemic is especially difficult in these institutions, and it is clear that it is necessary to give a comprehensive health response to protect our great people as much as possible. Vice-President, I would like to remind you that, at the last session of control that we were going to be able to hold here in Parliament just before the epidemic closure, my group, my person, we were going to head to the chamber to place the concern for the coronavirus, especially for the residents, in the priority area. Unfortunately, we were right: to hold the maximum involvement in order to avoid what precisely happened. You, as much as you're talking about competitions, now that it's all over, you're cleaning up the skills of one consulting firm to pass them on to another. We need to improve a model that you've defended so much and not now. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... Mr. Aragones, stand up, not on the scale. In his speech he has forgotten that from the scene they have lived their councils, the one to bless with the one of Salut, for so many years. The majority of residents have never been in public ownership, and there has never been this, the problem, there has never been the ownership, the problem, given that all – I repeat: always, all – have had a reference to a primary care centre; always, they have always had a primary care centre. Certainly, primary attention – you already know it well and I've heard myself say it sometimes – needsting and resourceless. The problem with residences is their handling of the scene in Salut, and vice versa. And this was especially hard in an epidemic where coordination has to be a maximum. And you're gonna be late. The decree won't fix what you don't want to see. The Catalans do not need elections now, they need political heights to solve the real problems. I, to do so, again step forward from Ciutadans. Certainly, I express my surprise at listening to the words of the leaders of their formations yesterday at the Congress of Deputies. They speak of Catalonia, but they do not know what it is doing to the Parliament's Health Commission, or to Social Affairs, for example. It would be good if the independent leaders knew firsthand the Catalan reality, that they know who leads, with great difference, the health and social proposals to Parliament. I know what you're doing, huh? , or the Speaker of Parliament knows well what Citizens are, and I recognize that you would know the names of the Members who defend them. Perhaps we would have a better Catalonia, vice president, if some fessin' leaders less gesticulations that distaste them from reality. You may have added, to Decree 13/2020, more measures than you would have forgotten in Decree 12, such as defining some competencies or from which the organizational units are functionally dependent. Therefore, structural and organisational measures which are intended to be a continuation of what was taken with the Decree Ill 12/2020, of 10 April. By the way, we have already read Decree 17 of May 12, which recently addressed these issues. Some, unquestionably, very relevant, such as addressing vulnerability with housing use leases. We fully agree that you may request a reasoned adjournment in the form of a responsible statement, both during the alert period and during the six-month period following your release. President, vice-president, deputies and deputies, who are thinking about post-pandemics. I can manage the waiting list, with a few more reptiles than we had. Never forget the 824,000 patients on the waiting list; now, much more. There must be a good plan to give priority to sufficient resources. Assistive security circuits will be slower and, therefore, will be much more dedicated. There is a supply of material that can never be more improvised: EPIs, bats, gloves, masks, fans, drugs... As the Health Council agrees with the Enterprise, because it cannot be that we have such a high level of external dependence. Calen big ICUs. And that's what needs to reshape the health model. I don't think the salutary council ever gives the schematic more to the benevolent, and vice versa. I need you to stop thinking about elections and focus on solving the real problems of Catalans. A professional recognizance as ever; it was necessary already, but that you have implied it, or the system will not endure another viral coating. It's a broad recognition, from the first macro-hospital you've mentioned to the smallest residence of large people. I'll pay for those from DPOs, too; the concerted centers. You may think of the holidays of all of them, in their time of formation, that they also have a right to a family reconciliation. This crisis, Vice President, has come to stay a good time. We had a very abandoned health system, and that's unquestionable now. He has endured thanks to the professionals, as always. But it is necessary to prioritise Catalonia in a different way. It may be at the height of circumstances and go thinking about the late. October is coming, and without a vaccine we can already see what will happen again. Please, we have registered and offer many proposals to work together. We wanted to extend your hand, and you didn't want it. It may strengthen health pacts so as not to return to the black hole of the pandemic. You have brought today a decree that goes from those TV sectarianisms that the reality of the epidemic has buried. They're responsible, and once in a while we're all out of hand, with all the actors in the health care system, and we fix the situation, so we don't see a tragedy like the present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.188.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, good afternoon. During this period of total exceptionality – and I think we all do – the only time we can debate the management of the government's pandemic is the validation of the decrees. This morning Congresswoman Romero told us: it turns out that in this validation of the decrees there is no debate; the only one you are looking for is adherence, and they do it more without any type of dialog. Let's add these explanations about the debates, about the decrees, that end up having some unstructured debates, since there is no way, we would say, to have an order, even if you try. Miri, I will only say that, in terms of salvation, if the Vergés Councillor has continuously and systematically informed the parliamentary groups..., and I will say this more simply: only if she has had a minimum of respect for the parliamentary groups, the validations may be more serious. And I fully understand that when a government or a pandemic is so complicated... there may be difficulties, dedications, long days..., I suppose, like the minister, that every week you go to the Congressional Health Commission of the Deputies, just like they do a lot of other counselors. You spoke that the decree allows it, and also the state of alarm, the use of contingency funds and, therefore, pull forward, as before Congressman Soler, resources, above all also for Chapter 1, new contracts and new expenses. But when we look at the list of girls' contracts or the expenses generated, which are in the transparency portal, so there are curious things, such as the excessive purchase of cars by the SEM or the differences and multiple information campaigns that are contracted. And, therefore, I think the pandemic is over, or at least it's over, someday we'll have to rethink everything that's going on. It's true, and you said it, that the pandemic has generated an exceptional situation over the health system, that it already had a double impact, right? : for one band, the extremes of all organizations and their professionals to avoid col·lapse, and for the other, among other things, the subsequent impact that the whole country will suffer overall in the face of a new recession and above all, in terms of salvation. And if we are talking about health and economic recession, we should fight – and I take your words from this morning, Vice President Aragonès – because it is not translated into more detail, into a sector that has suffered a lot, and that, I say in a first intervention here, I do not know if we have taken better, without the details of Mr. Boi Ruiz, the effects of the pandemic on our health system. Health entities, therefore, have faced the emergence of health care and care, and we must aggravate the efforts of all, of all the people who make up the care system and the health system. They've put all the resources available. And it is also certain that the state of alarm has made available to the Generality all public and private assistance resources. From this perspective, we could say that the object of Decree 12, in the sense of the fee you gave, can be a reasonable and laudable objective, because in reality what puts in evidence is the need to provide resources and balance finance a series of entities, Siscat, and private. But it also puts into evidence that it will really be necessary to review in the future the financing system of this part of the public system that is not ICS, that is 65_percent of the system, concretely 70_percent of the hospital, 25_percent of the primary and 85_percent of the mental and socio-sanitary. Evidently: these entities have allocated a multitude of resources to an unplanned health activity, and this type of payment would now be penalizing the efforts they have made towards the pandemic. From here, I would like to expose not only the great doubts that this decree generates for us in our group, but our position radically contrary to some of its precepts. To begin with there is an equalization between Siscat and private – private-private, to hear us – that neither has been very clear for what makes the rescue. If we continue with the decree, article 2 says that entities that have made an ERT... See, an ERT in the health system, that was theoretically all mobilized? When Mrs Vergés was asked if some entities, such as health transport or the Holy Family Clinic, had made an ERTO, she denied that it could be done in health terms, because all the resources mobilized were there? So, if they provide for it in the decree, it's because there hasn't been, or only because it's expected if there is one? It's a lot... the truth is, he left me... because I personally asked if it could be that in the sanitary transport and in a clinic that had entered it was possible to grant an ERT, and he replied, textually, that it was impossible, because all the health and care services were mobilized. They're asking him to cry, because I think it's important. Or it's happened as with the evidence, that the other day the same counselor recognized that they didn't control it. The decree was talking about providing for a financial balance and not generating cash flow problems. But what's the price? Paying some fees for Covid, which we have found – not us, but other groups and also other media – are very much above actual spending, and are we exceeding with any comparison? These days there has been much talk, that the Generalitat, which claims 4,000_million of compensation funds to the autonomous communities, pays private entities 43,000_euro per discharge of UCI / Covid, when Navarra pays 24,000 and when it seems that the real cost could be around 10,000. And they pay, plus, 4_per_cent apart from the space clearance, that's to say it's not incorporated, that the cost of testing is tripled, taking into account that we have the offer of universities and research centers that haven't yet brought them for testing and that they were willing to do it. And that every time she asked herself – the media did – the councilwoman replied that there will be an economic adviser who will make a subsequent regularization through an audit. But it is that, advancing in the decree, it turns out that the composition of this council, the responsible..., conforms to the financial economic leaders of the entities and a representative of the Economy. You must be a great representative, because, if not, you've lost enough. So let's hope the audience at least is independent. And, as Congressman Soler said very well, this, moreover, will not solve the problem of the Siscat and the concerted one with the same one that I gave to the councillor this morning: with the payment of the 100_per_cent of the DPOs, with the return of the 5_per_cent of his son. Because we're talking about sixty-thousand professionals who are in the concertation system and that this fee payment system won't cover it. Therefore, the truth is that it is not understood that it is what is being laid down in this decree. And, besides, we're setting them up with professionals who don't have time to recover personally, we'd say, exhausted and poorly paid, as we say this morning, and that if there's a rebound, we'd have serious difficulties. So I said it before: we don't understand or share it, and we don't think it's a good precedent, among other things, considering what happened in this country when the public ran out of time to make the private. And that's not so far away, we still have it a lot present. And, therefore, what we are asking for is clear transparency and media. I would like to talk about the other great theme – you mentioned it – which is the theme of residences, the assumption of competitions by Health. The pandemic has further exposed the excessive fragility of the social protection system. The mortality data for the virus are gross: 65_percent of the total are dead in residence. And you said, "Beyond this percentage, there are relatives and relatives." But you should also recognize that you have all the skills to do this, and therefore the management and the competence were of the Government of Catalonia. We seem to be moving to Health, but we also want it to be a transition of temporal competitions and to look ahead to the future as a real social and health care structure. We talk a lot about putting the person in the center; so we put it there so that you serve the person and not that she has to turn around. Possibly, if we have had the skills and the recognition of the health professionals you serve in the residences, only if we have equated them with that of the primary; if we have recognized and formed the people who work in the residential centers, who are the paradigm of precariousness, we have not, when we have entered, found what they have found. There was a professional who said in a newspaper the other day: "When we came in, it seemed like a tsunami had happened. I do not know whether or not coordination between departments has worked, but I am convinced that, if you have worked as it should, perhaps reinforcing the care department did not follow or require the transfer of skills. And I'm telling him we're not against it. Therefore, I am already telling you that we accept these measures of functions, personnel, inspection and contracting and, therefore, we have proposed... Now, we ask for truth, through the commission of inquiry, through the extraordinary plenary on this subject, which we ask for truth which must be the future of social and health care. And we don't look back when we have to say the name of the big business consorts that have gone beyond the management of residences, because from here the creature is crying, and I think it's worth it. Much remains to be said on the topic of water canon or tourism space, we have already said at the time of the bill of measures that should be delayed, and therefore we have no problem, and neither do we restart the RAMs of some schools. Finally, Vice-President, you have also spoken about urban leases, but there are two aspects that you would like to point out: one, which is to extend the deadline for depositing bonds, which gives me the feeling that it was better for ownership and, in change, not for the tenants, and so I would like to know why they are, and as well as the non-obligation of advertising for the sale of a property of the Incasòl, which can now be awarded directly without the need for advertising, and we have not just heard what effects it has on the vulnerable person or on the lease that it needs to be able to lease. I ended up just to tell you, and today, and above all for what you do to Decree No. 12: you have ruled in this decree, and in this decree you have ruled in your right and private sanitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.189.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.190.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. The two decrees that we are discussing together now contain various elements, in more than a wide variety of areas, but we want to focus the explanation of our vote mainly on two: the system set up to pay private and concerted health centres for services rendered in the face of the health crisis and the transfer of skills from residences to the Health Department. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Like Catalonia in Comú We can, we have been strong since the first moment, and today, obviously, we will also maintain it, and we will vote against the Decree of 12/2020, because we do not share the system or price that they have fixed to pay for private sanitation and arranged patient service to Covid-19, and because this price per patient we believe is superior to any comparison reference that can be made, and that it has not been calculated in a minimally transparent way. I'll explain. As a compliment to this decree, the Catalan public budget pays €43,400 for each patient with Covid who has made use of an ICU, a unit of intensive care, to private and concerted sanitation during this health crisis. The cost is calculating a global price, it has been five days or twenty-five, to the ICU. You think so, don't you? For what it has been said, the middle state is about three weeks in an ICU. You don't get it, do you? On a global price, the use that has been made has been made, not understood, for a good use of public resources. But, come on, I'll leave them to the band. After you are calculating three weeks of midjana, it means you are calculating two thousand euros per day per patient who has used an ICU. Before you approved this decree, the Catalan private health care provider had made an estimate of the cost of living at a thousand-euro daily ICU per patient. It was already a higher estimate than the estimate made for the Spanish private employer. We don't know why there's an extra cost to private sanitation in Catalonia that respects private sanitation in Valencia; but it's the same, we don't give it for good either. From this estimate of the private Catalan employer, the average state of three weeks would be 21,000 euros, less than the half of 43.400 that fixes this decree. Before Catalonia, only Navarre had set the price of compensation for private toilets for use during the Covid crisis. Navarra, where private sanitation is the most cherished in the State, set a compensation price of 1,160 euros per day. Midday stay of three weeks: 24,000 euros, also the half of 43.400 that fixes the Generalitat. But it is that the cipher does not support any comparison with its data, from the same government of the Generality. In fact, on the 15th, you have published a new order of public health preus públicas, which for you to stay in intensive care fixes a price of 1,550_euros; making the calculation of three weeks, 32,550, also very per under 43.400 that fixed this decree. Why 43,400? She hasn't been able, nor has she been able, at any time, the Health Counselor, to explain why. How did they make this calculation, or I'll say it differently: who did they make this calculation with? Directly with the private employer, right Siscat? We also ask for a clarification of what they have already carried out before about why the decree provides for circumstances in which there is an ERTO in private clinics, when the Health Department personally assured me that no ERTO in health services would be accepted or possible. The other great element for which we are voting against is for the payment system. The system is, they'll pay and then they'll check it out. Look, it generates doubts about which criteria will make this review, these audits it decrees, and up to what point they will demand the return of the money paid if they are higher. Because the same decree, moreover, says: "There will only be return if there is a benefit greater than reasonable. What is superior to reasonable? Or do we accept that there must be benefits from a private crisis of the Covid? But it is that, moreover, we note in the same decree that who will be in charge of making this audit or this review is the same people of private health, in this council advisor who is in accordance with the decree, the same interested ones, those who during the last two years have increased profits and markets thanks to the retails that have weakened the public health system and left more open to the flow of those who are doing business with our salvation. Or, they have fixed the price, because neither the counselor can say where these 43,400 are from; they will self-audit; they will give the data of how many patients they have derived from public health – which is certainly a black hole, we don't know yet – and they will win, while they are not superior to reasonable. Mirin, the guarantee of liquidity to the concerts, obviously. The ordinary payment system was in horror with this crisis. But the model that they have raised a lot the impression that it is not intended for concerts, to which they will surely end later balancing the theme with the concert that they have to pay for during the rest of the year: it is intended for the deprived outside of the Siscat. That the private outside of the Siscat that was used during this crisis Covid was to be paid? Yes; but with a fair price, no more or less, set with public and transparent criteria, and pay it when you already have all the items that are not covered by the public and the concert, and not before. When you passed this decree, you still had health personnel screened for whether the next day you would have EPIs in public and concerted hospitals. And now they still have staff in the concerted centres that have been paying for retails that have been pouring in for a couple of years. They are surprised – or not – at the celery and generosity they have had in fixing how much to pay for private health, in quantity and at the moment, to settle for a time in the service of public interest, and, in parallel, what little efficiency and celery in guaranteeing the conditions worthy of the staff of public financing centres, which are the ones who have left the fur and the health for us, also, of this health crisis. It's clear to you today. When they deal with us, when they deal with Catalonia in Comú Puem, they adopt measures to strengthen the public health system. Presuppositions 2020: 900_million euros more for sanitation; when they do continue to negotiate with the private, they have to gather in Ciutadans or in the People's Party. The other topic I told you I wanted to comment on: the transfer of skills from residences to the Health Department. This was a subject that our parliamentary group called on them to hurry, that they also called for the sector, and many other views. It was a matter of common sense. The situation of the residents, especially of large people, was of health emergency. The Department of Social Affairs had already shown itself to be unable to do so, and the need for material, health personnel, health criteria to assist and to derive also from hospitals or other centres. And that's why you guarantee the public health system. The situation is and has been very difficult, empty and in many more questions. We talked about this this morning at the President's appearance; we will talk about it again later in the debate to create a commission of inquiry on this subject, but we do not want to miss the opportunity to insist that this control of the skills of the residents of Health is necessary because we were in healthcare emergency, but that one day the health emergency has to return to Afers Socials. The management of dependency policies must be in the hands of Afers Socials, in order to rethink and re-establish them, not in order to return to the same, but it must be with social logic and attention to personal autonomy. Now, the one that can't get out of the hands of the Health Department is never more health care for residents. Not to go back to normal, in this. Rather than injustice, he eats the last few years with those who have built our democracy, our public system of rights guarantee and who have worked and contributed all their lives to sustain him. If we have a public sanitation system, it's thanks to our great people. But when they come to live in a residence we forget about them and them. And we're bringing these servants. This is what happened the past few years in Catalonia, one more of the many consequences of the neoliberal policies applied to the benefit of the 2008 crisis: health care for outsourced residents. After this crisis, health care for residents is kept in the hands of primary care, with all the reinforcements sufficient to guarantee quality and to keep all guarantees. I'm done. We will abstain from Decree 13/2020. We want to facilitate this change in the skills of the residents, and therefore we will not vote against it, but you continue to make the decrees without dialogue, without negotiating with the political plurality of the country represented in Parliament or with the sectors affected. And every time it costs us more to give them positive votes. Nor can they vote in favour of some of the other elements appearing in this decree, especially two: Article 4 on Incasòl; it regulates the direct award of the immovable property of Incasòl. Mirin, don't get along. Why do they eliminate pre-agreement advertising? If they don't explain it better, if they don't come, talk to us, explain it to us... if they don't explain it better, they finally make us think that maybe there's some strange interest. And above all for Article 5 on residues. What they're doing is exclosure having to bail out to ensure that it's responding to environmental damage that can cause a good share of the waste managers. They have only bailed out those who have residues that are as dangerous as they are. I don't need you to bail her out anymore. This is a point which, together with Cat and Esquerra Republicana, they made to the law of measures, which my parliamentary group voted against in the handling of the assumptions and which, therefore, we cannot endorse today, and which obliges us to abstain, among others, from the decree of law 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.192.0	Good afternoon, all of you. Since we have representation in this chamber, since 2012, if there has been a question that this group has wanted to work – this parliamentary subgroup, at other times parliamentary group – has been the characterization of the model of salvation – when we talk about the model of salvation we are referring to the model of public salvation – and when we went to characterize this model, which we have talked about – and we are talking, we insist, about the Catalan public system of salvation – we have found ourselves before a model of absolute confusion. The best way to try to know our public health system is this: to see that it is confusing. And confusion, why? Confusion because we have, for one band, that private companies – private healthcare companies – go to manage what is public; for another band, that public services are able to manage private spaces, and, thirdly, that there are private healthcare companies that do private business; therefore, private healthcare care, public spaces. This is our reality of the health system, and, as an exception, although it would be approximately a third, a reality for which only – approximately a third – there has been public management in public spaces for public sanitation. This is the system of salvation, for sure, which has been built with the support of what you..., or rather, of what you are on this other side – there is none at this very moment of the UPC - the cry Constituent in this part of the hemisphere – and, therefore, that you have not questioned, none. "No means since the Transition, when we already had a greeting counselor from a certain political adscript, and we still did not have any elections to the Parliament of Catalonia until the last few days. The model is not questioning for the rest of political parties. We did question him. Always. And we said that our bet was for a 100% public, 100% public, 100% public, management and provision toilet..., we have a title that you have these two other features. So, look, what we've experienced in the past two months is one more element of how this confusion has developed. I'll explain. The Councillor of Salut – and she knows it hard to refer to us – without her presence, but we think that she should be present in the debate of this decree, and, let us say again, she knows it hard, because it would be a waste that she was, and it would be a waste that we did not make reference, but it is a political obligation, because it is her personal assertions – in a committee, or, rather, in a committee in which she appeared, she said to us, to the question of this group: "We can say that at the present time there has not been any private sanitation. To what extent, you, and now I'm talking about the government, and in a very special way about the Health Council, are absolutely confusing about what the Catalan health system is, when it came to saying this, that it could be said that there was no private sanitation, to the question of this subgroup. And, if someone obviously requires the vision, they can go to the telematics media that this room has. Look, one thing is that you, at a certain point, therefore, through, certainly, a mere resolution – a resolution! – therefore, it decides that there can be a mere disposition of private health resources – a disposition, possibility to dispose – this is a reality, and another reality is that it is possible to give a nationalization of health resources. There's nothing to see. We're not talking about things that were related. Basically because you haven't thought about it – and now I'm talking about the government and the Health Department – going to control the strategic decisions and media of private sanitation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Neither have they done it, nor are they doing it, nor will they want to do it, for which has been the experience that we had after two months. Because, if in this context, with all that we have suffered and are painted, they have not managed to deal with the management of all health resources to make them available to everyone in the same way, it gives us the feeling that we will never see their mother, or, like at least, if the one that determines health policies are the two parliamentary groups that today support the Government. In this sense, too, we want to set another example. If you really are managing private health resources – and in that provision that the facts refer to, in that resolution also referred to private laboratories – you will have to answer why there have been private laboratories that have determined who they are testing and who they are not testing and who they are taking the evidence for. We consider ourselves to have more than an exercise of absolute honesty and to translate: "No, we are not managing it, this; we are not controlling resources, we do not want to control resources. Or – and for us it's not an explanation –: "We don't have mechanisms to control resources. We, if we need it, establish what is the mechanism through which it can be done. We'd give them an answer. Also, and what this Decree 12 means – after we talk about the 13th – it is essential to understand that what they have come to do is to maintain the private healthcare business business. This is essentially what this decree means. Look, some of the Members who have been before me have already moved on, but it seems so hard for us that we have to talk about it again. The meaning of Article 2.3. The CUP did not say this in an intervention to the Faristol, Article 2.3 says: "Guarantee the February billing of 2020. Let's not say it, let's not interpret it: it's suspicious of the way it used to be right now and then it's going to guarantee the February billing of 2020. Also, what he does to everyone who deals with the Covid-19, what you establish, and let's say it with the utmost respect, is an authentic catalogue of barbarity: you serve health care and prices. As if it were a cataleg where you look and you can see how much they're going to pay you. Or, better said, how much we will have to pay: 43.400 euros per discharge, to the ICUs. O, more well said: 43.400_euros for highs in states derived from the Covid-19 to UCIs. I am sure that in a normal situation it could be two or three weeks the midday of ICUs, but the midday that is now being given is between seven and ten days, a very different thing, and therefore, if we are in this reality, then we would surely die in a margin of six thousand euros/day– six thousand euros/day. The only thing we ask is that they do the exercise to see what Nafarroa, an autonomous community in Navarre, has paid for the same service. They already have the answer: 24,000 euros. But for us there is a difference between price and cost. So far we're paying for it, but the determining factor is the cost: what, really, is this? And if you're going to see how much this really is, we wouldn't be talking about 43,400 euros or 24,000 euros, we'd be talking about a much smaller amount. And we want to give you another example, so you can also see what we're talking about. The same misnomer, like us, "cataleg, in relation to the Covid-19: PCR test – PCR test –, ninety-three euros. Vagina to the Catalan public research – which certainly more than one hundred researchers and researchers have offered to collaborate and are still waiting to answer – and ask them how much these PCR tests are worth. Do you know what they'll answer? They will answer that they go from the two euros to 26.55, the ones of lower quality, or less analysis, and the ones of more analysis, 26 with 55. We're talking that, until ninety-three euros, there's no 66.45. Now, if they want, then they answer me that the logistics of the transport, the effectiveness of the workmanship in the realization of the PCR test. No, no, They are creating a margin of business benefit for healthcare companies hardly known in the past few years. And lastly, we were talking about what is part of the Siscat. But if someone has a certain doubt that they are not part of the Siscat, what the Decree 12/2020 says is: the same rates for Covid-19, which we have referred to before – we have put two examples, there are many others, eh? – plus a 4_per_cent. And if anyone wants to question whether they're winning a lot, they'll do an audit, which is a self-audit; they'll themselves be hearing about the costs and prices they're making use of for and effects of what it's related to Covid-19. When we read about the audience, we thought a lot about Councilman Buch and the "major audit of the history of the Mosso d'Esquadra", which we are still waiting for. We imagine it will be a force audit that looks like features, purposes and objectives. I, to conclude – also referred to some other Member – Article 2.1.c of Decree 12/2020. Expressly they regulate that those companies that have ERTO, the public or public service that they provided will have to be suspended. Only it would be missing that no laboressin, no pressin served, and copper. But the problem is not that, the problem is that they told us by active and passive that there would be no ERTO. So why are they regulating this? And the problem, in the background, is not quite so much this, it is another much deeper: as you have expressly not banned ERTOs for any of the purposes of the Catalan public health service..., forbid them, for one band, and sometimes also advance that, if someone presents them, and wants to go to law school, obviously we will recover the management of the service and, obviously, we will put these resources at the present stage, at the present time, at the full disposal of the Catalan public health service, which is the only, moreover, that guarantees fairness criteria to most Catalans and Catalans. There are some Catalans and Catalans who do not guarantee them, but as a minimum, most of them do. Look, in all this we have insisted that it was not a matter of costs, that it was a subject... or, more accurately, that it was not of price, that it was of costs. But we also want to insist on another idea: for us it is a model theme, absolutely, and we never want to be able to sweep business benefits with criteria of salvation. Sometimes, when we read it, it's macabre: so much for a high. Sanitation can't work that way. And, certainly, that no speculum: from the CUP - Creed Constituent we are not questioning neither for a_second– nor for a_second– the professionalism of the workers and workers of the health system, neither of the public nor of the private. But just as we don't question these professionals, we absolutely question the businesses that give the service, but not because they're bad, just because they're businesses and their purpose isn't to provide a public service, but its purpose is the business benefit. Look, we don't have time to rule on the change of competition, but we don't understand it's a phone call; we've already jumped from the top. And we want to end with a single question, that of Incasòl – we are already in Decree 13 –: "It will not be necessary to advertise the inn for sale. That's what you say. We won't say other things that have been said here, but that's what this decree says. And obviously that's why we're voting against it, too. And the last idea: it's not so much who they're going to match voting today, but who they're going to match defending model today. That's the determining factor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.193.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.194.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, the protection of health is a constitutional and statutory right, and in order to make it effective it can mobilise all the means at our disposal. And the media we have at our disposal are public and also private. What we consider to be uplifting and important and to be a public cent is salvation. The way in which we make salvation public must be able to be done with public media or private media. And to the extent that public media are not unlimited, because resources are not unlimited either, obviously we also have to resort to private sanitation. And this, in this crisis, I think it was an example of what it is to put all resources at the disposal of public salvation. It is also not a coincidence that precisely 30_percent of Catalans in Catalonia have a private medical insurance, which surely matches the public service, but 30_percent of Catalans have a private medical insurance. CUP voters are, of course, more inclined to enter into private assurances than, for example, voters of those supposedly neo-liberal parties. But in any case, this is a reality, these two forms of public salvation. And, obviously, if a service is provided, the service must be paid. Therefore, we do not object to the provision of a tariff for the provision of a service that was not foreseen, even more so when it is clearly given the circumstance that in this crisis situation there has been given the circumstance that many hospital centers, also the concerted ones, also the private ones and also the publics, have had to stop providing ordinary services, that therefore they will also stop charging these services, and they will have to bill the services that they actually have lent, that they are the correspondents to this health crisis for the Covid. What I am no longer able to pronounce is whether the tariffs that appear in the decree are the appropriate tariffs or not; I can't go to the market to see what ICU is for Covid, I can't see it, and therefore I don't have this possibility to compare more than data from other communities, without knowing the reference of the argument of the tariffing of some communities or others, because the decree doesn't come with an expedient in which the prices imposed are justified. Yes, I have had the opportunity to see the prices of PCR tests, because they offer, continue to offer in the private sphere PCR tests, and offer themselves to a significantly higher price, from the cents, than is charged in this decree. But, in any case, the principle is: for public health, public and private media, and, obviously, whether public or private, they have the right to charge for the services they provide. This is the first element that forms part of Decree 12, that we discuss its validation. The second important element is the change in the membership of the Directorate-General for Personal Autonomy and the Disability of Social Affairs to Health. And I think that this element is an element that has now been corrected for certain circumstances, but I think that's the real debate about what the future of residential centers should be. Usually, mostly on the part of the families and on the part of the great people, the one they wanted and the one they have always claimed and continue to claim is that the residences must be an extension of their life at home, and, therefore, they must not be hospital centers, they must not feel great people admitted to a hospital center, but they are in a residential center, and therefore more from the social point of view than from the sanitary point of view. And, of course, this would have to work on conditions, but... and that has also led to other problems, and then with the creation of the commission of inquiry we have an opportunity to talk about it too. But, as has already been said, residential centres have attached primary care centres, but they have given a lot of impression – certainly because as residential centres are part of social services and primary care centres are part of Health... – that, once a person enters a residential centre, he is already in the master's seat of the protection of the same primary care centre and free of the protection of primary care. And that can't be, that's not possible. Because surely the ideal model is neither a strictly social center, nor a strictly medical or health center. And I believe, we believe, that the government departments should not be dormant departments, and therefore this compatibility between social care and health care should be possible if the residential centres are registered, if they are in the area of social welfare, if they are in the area of health. And, therefore, the fact that the Government has taken this decision is that there is no need for synergies between both departments so that we can address the health crisis in which we are immersed. Other questions that appear, one of the questions that also appears in Decree 12: the water canon. And, to hear us, in the water canon what is done is to reduce – not to suppress, to reduce – the billing minimums of the water canon, huh? – of the canon, not of the water, not of the consumption of the water, of the canon of the water –, to reduce the minimums by three cubic meters per residential square or of camping to the minimum standard that is charged to the industries, which is of six cubic meters. Home, well, it's a questionable generosity exercise. Well, it's a gesture; it looks good. I would argue even the whole fact that you have to pay a minimum for a canon, because, if you have not consumed it, there is no benefit, and, if you have no benefit, we force you to pay even a minimum. Disputable – questionable. Home, mass generous, the truth, it's not. And you, Government, have the opportunity, counselor, have the opportunity to take action, man, as the least impacting for the sector. Stop charging the tourist tax at hotels and campgrounds, which are closed, and which are immersed in a very important crisis. Stop charging them the tourist tax. This would be a gesture; and no, reduce the minimum of the water canon. No, not that they cover them later – not that they cover them later –; I stop charging them - during the year 2020 and the year 2021, the tax of tourist states. At least, that, at least. Decree 13. No, we don't just hear, that of the bonds of the contracts of llogar, with what ends up benefiting or who ends up benefiting; that is, the term of two_months that there is usually to deposit the bonds extend it to four_months. I think it's more operative than not as a measure of support absolutely to anyone, because I don't see exactly who benefits, because who gets it pays; at the time it gets it, it pays this bond. Then, well, we just didn't hear who they're trying to benefit. Nor do we understand who they intend to benefit from the possibility of direct tendering of immovables by the Incasòl. With the least, Joke; other parliamentary groups have already said so, with the least brief, Joke. He says: "Select, and now why do we not have to be able to follow the usual public bidding procedure? You can now make direct awards. So we didn't just hear it. And as the decree does not accompany the corresponding reports in order to be able to justify these actions that are taken, so to us all this generates doubts. And, finally, the adjournment of returns or real rights strings stuck to the Generality during the alarm state and during six months, and this adjournment to thirty-six months. Well, it's a good measure, but we'll have to study other alternative measures, because it's very possible that many of these loggers are finding themselves with a situation that later is longer than the alarm state and beyond the six-months, and therefore certainly not enough will be an increase of thirty-six-months. We share the philosophy of some of the measures, others believe they are short, others do not just hear them. Therefore, the position of our group will be to abstain in the decrees, both at 12 and at 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.196.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, vice presidents, in fact, I think I'm going to change my intervention from date to date, because, the sincere sociers, I thought we were going to have a debate on model, as some company pointed out, and if that's what we're talking about, that even if we could get out of which amount or what were the days, and that's what we can do, but when you want to bring a false debate about the private and you want to focus, so you want to make me rule everything from date to date. Because I understand that we are talking about dealing with the effect of the Covid pandemic, and therefore I intend to talk about the response of the public health system, that I hope we agree that it has been impeccable, that it has been ingenious; that it is not only now that we have an internationally recognized system for many years, that, moreover, it has a system of universalization of the health system that is enviable by many countries; that, even though the retails of the converging era, that have left us with a weakened system, they have left us with a precarious system, that has come to a complicated situation, but that, all the same and so, have multiplied by three of the UCI's beds, they have reoriented themselves from the bottom of the normal hospitals, that all of them have been incorporated without a name, until then. And I remember Congresswoman Laïlla, who's been working these days, or all the people we've voluntarily added to the health care system to help you out. Obviously, all this has helped to avoid collapsing, not only all the professionals, who want to thank the work, as all the deputies have done, obviously to those who are on the front line, but also to those who support it, but also to the managers and the supervisors and the addresses, and also to the whole Department of Health, because it is a time of extremes, it is a very complicated time, and therefore also who has the political responsibility to make decisions, also, is, therefore, under a lot of stress, and, also, just as when there is something that doesn't work is said, also all that good management that they have done..., I think it's also fair to thank the girl. Overtaken this first wave, we have the second, the third and the fourth, we have all this response to patients not Covid, who urgently need this assistance that has been announced; also all the chronicity that has gone complicated these days, and that has already begun to recover, but also the fourth wave, the wave of mental salvation, of the burnout of workers, of all the inequalities that will come after that. And, therefore, I understood that this decree helped regulate, set these rates, and also the structural reorganization share, to make it possible and to pay for everything that has been done and everything that has to come. And in this, the expansion of the contingency fund credit that the vice president was commenting on, and these extra money, which is obviously needed, that the assumptions were an indispensable tool, but although this will need to be adapted, as has been said, and more resources will be needed. And that will continue to drive public health, which is what saved us from this pandemic, and therefore it will need to strengthen it, with more finance, taking care of professionals, investing in technology... and all governance changes. It was about nationalizing the health system. It's just that this Republican Left legislature has already done that. I suppose they are aware of it: of the hospital of Reus, of the hospital of Móra, of the hospital, for example, also, of Berga. So all this helped us to strengthen this public system. We can talk about tariff regulation, and as long as we do, and I understand that they are perfectly aware that these tariffs are the same for the public system as for the private system. So, I don't know if it's exactly the best day because it's just the commons and the PSC accusing us of wanting to do so much with Citizens. I think that as a day at least it is unfortunate, considering with whom you re-centralize, militarize the healthcare response. But, in any case, beyond that, we can discuss the price, whether it's adjusted or not, and obviously we'll talk about the costs involved. It's just that having a person at the ICU isn't the thousand euros that someone can calculate that they're diari. And all the EPIs? We're aware that I don't know, huh? We do not belong to the health care system, but those who have not done a magnificent job and know the system well as to know that the ability or costs of having a patient in the health care system today have nothing to do with one or two months ago. Or all the respirators that have had to be incorporated urgently, with re-adaptation of entrepreneurs and also with an effort of the inefficient public system. I suppose we want to pay for all this in the public system. Therefore, we can come to discuss whether these costs are high or not, knowing that they spend a lot more EPIs, knowing that they spend a lot more fans, even if it's a new diagnostic. My ICU partners, when they tell me what they've been through... it's not the same as having a coronary patient that you already know what's going to have, you know what's going to be complicated, and that's almost, by anecdote, I'll say that the moon's voice and depending on the color you already see where the patient's going. That's not happening now. It was a new disease. Everyone's adjusting. And so, now that they're tall that someone says they're from seven-two days, at the beginning of the crisis they weren't from seven-two days. And in any case these prices, if you look at the date of the decree, they're from the principle. Therefore, the hand extends to rectify what you want. If a weather forecast has been made to the ICU that is ultimately misadjusted, the mother has it. If it has to be rectified because the material that has been used at last is not what it was thought to be, the mother has it, and to review what she does with the adjustments that, in fact, you already provide for the decree; therefore, it is not to look, it is to adjust to what she convinces. Now, if you want to make believe that here you're privatizing and profiting the private, or lying, or you don't know the system, or you want to play cheating. And I set the example of Lleida, and we can see the example of Catalonia, but Lleida's example of me is 100_per_cent. The beds of intensive care units in Lleida are one hundred_per_cent publics all, all: Hospital Arnau de Vilanova and Hospital Universitari Santa Maria; one hundred_per_cent publics both. So, what you're saying is that you don't want 43,000 beds to be paid to the Arnau de Vilanova and the Hospital Santa Maria, the two university students and the two publics? I zero private, zero; two clinics that have semicritical, in any case, but not critical. To put one, for example. But it is that, at the level of Catalonia, this, in impact, this example of ICU beds..., over 85_per_cent of beds are public– public. So, who do these prices have an impact on? About the audience in an 85_per_cent! So, you want to grab a headline and twist it and talk about jobs, because they're interested in them politically? Okay. If that's what it is, I'm not going in anymore. If it's a matter of disconnection, let's discuss it. If it's a matter of misadjustment in the price and in the state, let's discuss it, because here I am conscious, and I put it to the table, that there may be differences, and that's why the transparency of having an audit and having an economic board fund you to review it; now, if you want to play is something else, then it's complicated to have debates. And the same with the PCRs, the same – the same. We can go in and discuss whether the price is up, it's 80 or it's 100, and we'll see when this pandemic is over. And of course I understand that we will charge some costs, not profit, but that we will charge some costs, beyond doing the clinical test. Because we can also see the whole process, from the discovery, and all the process that produces proof. But with these tests, at first – at first – they were making approximately five thousand PCRs a day to the public system. The public system is currently 15 thousand a day, beyond the Orfeu programme, which is also making many. About fifteen thousand who are the ones who are doing the public system, which is the great quantity, what do the evidence that is being done to the private system suppose? And, I say again, does Republican Left support private entities that cover one hundred and fifty euros for testing? Obviously not – obviously not. Especially because they're just taking advantage of the most vulnerable people, and most of them are people who don't need this proof today, that the only one who does is a picture of a concrete moment. So, in this, let's come to terms. Now, in general, the price of the PCRs when at the time of the pandemic, at the time of the peak, some private laboratories were used, when it was not possible to give support... but now we have returned practically to normality and have greatly expanded public capacity, robots have been bought, more capacity has been instrumentalized; now it is difficult to do so. And, therefore, transparency, the three points of transparency that they have – notify CMB activities with the data that they are daily published from the Health Department and this external audit and the financial advisor – seems to me to be elements that help us also to continue working in this line of transparency and to be able to explain the data. Because, precisely, if they make opinions that can be contradictory, I guess that's because they've found the data somewhere. And, therefore, this is the line to continue. Finally, four points faster. About the residences of great people, of disabilities and of mental health, and this reorganization – because it was about this coordination that has occurred and the change – this coordination that has existed for many months between the Department of Health and the residences, and that they must be able to continue to work for these most vulnerable people. And, obviously, in a pandemic all hands are useful, all – all. But I also ask those who give us lessons every day that is reviewed to which model of state are supporting you. Do they want a model of state where the health care workers are dominant or who want to be military, which is what they send us when they have to disinfect the residences? Because as long as we don't get our competitions back, which we should do now, I hope the next time I send a truck over here, it's sanitary and not military. Because you tell them more about scientific evidence; you tell them that refocusing only helps to mismanage the pandemic. But it's that if, at all, scientific evidence is not read, and you don't know that regional administrations can rule much better in a situation like this... it's that they've tried it twice and they've come out terribly badly. They want to buy EPIs, and what they do is they buy them, which is worse than the generality didn't get them, less bad, because, if not, if they're already falling, the professionals, what they've come up with. But it's that, besides, they also want no one to buy tests, that's Spain buys them, and every time they buy tests I don't need to tell them the result we've had. Therefore, I return to the competitions, let the Administration and the Health Department do the job and, if not, in any case, put in the money as well. I'm not talking to you about the tax deficit anymore; I'm setting you an example related to salvation. It is that the Law of Dependence, since they speak so much of residences, speaks of fifty-five, and you only pay 20_per_cent. So, as much as we can talk about it. The only proposal that seemed to me to be a little something, which was said..., was to propose a pact for the health system. If this is to strengthen the public system, if this is to take care of professionals and to provide us with resources, Esquerra's hand will always be extended to everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of Congressman Lluís Guinó, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.198.0	Vice President, thank you. He will advise, Vice-President of the Government, Members, Members, leave me, first of all, and to be particularly explicit for all those parliamentary groups who have doubts about the vote of the second decree, in which it is a complement to Decree No. 12 for which he deals above all with the question of the transfer of competences between the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Health... He has accompanied other measures, in some of which you have put on the table some doubts or some questions that may, in some ways, attempt to convince so that they will vote favorably for this decree, at least, to give explanations that are much more obvious than apparently. I think they've exceeded the interpretation of some of the articles thinking more things than they have. The government's objective with some of these measures – and in concrete terms for what it does to the issue of Incasòl – is basically that the process and the term of the state of alarm does not make it difficult and, in some ways, does not prevent some of the auctions that had already been in public display for which it makes different types of immovable, or industrial, residential and, even, some of the floors. And the concrete cases exist and are known from the municipalities. And, therefore, there is a very direct link between this measure and the fact that it does not want to prevent and to make it precisely easier for these awards to come to an end within a concrete term. There is no other thought or objective that this is not exactly the case, which is to facilitate these awards. There's nothing more to it later, it's not a problem of transparency, it's not a problem of lack of concertation in the areas; it's simply to make it easier for this term of alarm, in a way, not to condition all the terms of public exposure of different projects that precisely come to terms and that have to do with industrial solo development, residential solo development, to build it precisely for official protection. And, therefore, it was this, in some way, the reason for which it appears in this decree. Therefore, if any of you have any doubts regarding this question, you can vote in favour of the law, because it is not any of the doubts that you raised. Beyond that, and what's very important respects these two laws. Certainly, in the first case, it is a reference to everything that was said and that has generated a very interesting debate, but from my point of view it is not the time to bring it to terms, in the sense that we are immigrating from a pandemic, we are immigrating from an extraordinary, exceptional, unique situation, and, therefore, it is not the time at this time to enter into deep debates about certain issues, but what the Government has to do, and I believe that it has done it in a correct and plausible way, is to try to confront the pandemic with all the media at its disposal. And sometimes it's a presupposition, the measures the government has put in place, and at other times it's a tax, on others it's an organization, like what happened in this transition of competitions between the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Health, and others have to see precisely with all the global system of public service health. Many times we tend to confuse ourselves, even to confuse ourselves, with respect to this issue. The public health system of this country, the Siscat, is configured for the concerted system and for the Catalan Health Institute. And the rest, we'd say, is the private health system. And, therefore, each of these areas has a very determined ability to insert into Catalan society. Therefore, sometimes trying to overvalue the transcendence and import of the private sector to the salvation of our country from a global perspective is a pernicious debate, it is a debate that is somehow not entirely certain. What the government has tried to do about this is, first, that the concerted sector has not remained practically, from a point of view of three times, without resources. This is the government's main objective at this time in the concerted sector, which represents 65_percent of the entire public health system in Catalonia. And it is very important that I have enough resources, precisely because many of the workers, who are also so important, such as the Catalan Institute of Health, have faced an admirable commitment and professionalism to this pandemic. And you could give the case, under these circumstances, that there aren't enough resources to be able to deal with these payments. And what it does, basically, is make a beast, a beast of the 2020 February billing, which is the reference. And it has already been insisted: afterward these measures will have an audience process; there will be a whole control process, which is not exclusively private, but basically public, control. It is that the Health Department and the Government do not only have the will, they must have, or have, the obligation to do this control, and to do this audit, and to see the traceability of these public resources. And that's fundamental and basic in a system like we have in Catalonia. And it seems to me that this is what the decree provides. Drastic measures must be taken from a point of view of control, inspection and audit. Therefore, from this point of view, at length, whether it is actually complete or in some way believe these cost gaps, because in the context of costs, between the proposals made by the Government and the proposals that are the reality and for the treatment that is being carried out, it is obvious that it will have to be rectified, but let the services be done, that the costs of these services are well valued, because, as the Republican leftist company said, it is certainly not the same when this decree was drafted, in the middle of April, to the pandemic that will be faced yesterday, a_month later, that we are certainly in a much better and from a health point of view. Such a time what we will have to predict is that it is not produced any kind of rebound and that, later on, in October, with the coincidence of the seasonal flu and the pandemic of the Covid-19, they cannot coincide, do not generate a rebound, which would be more worrying. But such a time also, and this is true, and this too may highlight it, will find us in a very different situation: there will be no unforeseenness and initial disconnection, and, as the Government has bought itself and explained in very many public appearances, and it seems to me that it is also its obligation, the health professionals will be well protected, it will have expenditure carried out in very important PPE, and it will be warm to stay and consolidate, because, also, as has been said, this is a pandemic that has arrived, basically, to stay. Therefore, the government's assurance and willingness is that the costs that are incurred and that can be justified as a consequence of these services for the Covid-19 pandemic will obviously be audited. There will be the possibility, of course, that all the parliamentary groups will be more fully aware of the outcome of this audit. And before the audience's objectivity is when it can put on the table any doubt, but the objective, I insist, is that it is somehow controlled and inspected for the government all these expenses, as it could not be otherwise; in fact, if in anything this government stands out for its transparency, rather than political interpretations in transparency, then we can talk long and now neither is it. Reference has also been made to the second decree, which makes reference, and insistently, to the transfer of competitions between the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Health. A quick reflection, and it is that the concept of 30-year-old residences has completely changed; it is not the same type of user that is today or that asks for the service of living that was 30-year-old residence. And, therefore, somehow it would be necessary for us to adapt to the new reality. But we will be sure of that; in the debate on the committee of inquiry it will be discussed. There is a new model to incorporate the health system into the social welfare system, because these people who are today find and are potential users of residences find themselves in a much more complicated health situation than those in the past. And, therefore, the intervention of the health system in the social sphere must be carried out in a coordinated and collaborative way. And I think the government has perfectly assumed that the debate will exist and that parliamentary groups will be able to come up with – for what I see so far, with a certain coincidence – any question I have to see with this paradigm shift, with this model shift. Someone's talking about disruption; it's that we're in a clearly disruptive situation. And someone also said, and I take advantage of it to consolidate it, that decisions must be taken that have precisely this character of disruption, and we must do all precisely from the Parliament of Catalonia, that is where these new laws are to be legislated. There are other questions that need to be addressed in more sectoral areas. Questions have been raised about waste, which has somehow only been allowed to companies that manage hazardous waste to hold bail. This is an action that has a limited recourse from a time point of view and moreover has no direct economic and presuppositional impact. It also referred to a very important issue, because when we talk about resources, we don't just talk about the resources that Madrid, surely, or the Spanish State, gives us and somehow affects very directly the financing of salvation in Catalonia, of the system of salvation, but the government has also had to activate more resources in the field of contingency that the assumptions have. Therefore, this is another question that must be taken into account: that the contingencies of the assumptions, of assumptions that are already extended at that time, have been made available to the pandemic in concrete and definitive form, until many of the expenses generated from the Covid-19 have to be financed precisely thanks to this contingencies. In the end, I want to thank them for their interventions. It is true that there are model questions that are difficult to reconcile – there are many different models, and that is why I also seem interested in the diversity of these models – but it is necessary that when the intensity of this pandemic passes we continue to be able from Parliament to put on the table each of the parliamentary groups its model, and, if possible, to agree to one that somehow does not satisfy one hundred per cent of a parliamentary group, but that basically satisfies the Catalan society, which is to whom we owe and for which we work from the Catalan Parliament. Vice-President, our position is to vote in favour of these two decrees, but it is obvious, moreover, that I have tried to give arguments to some parliamentary groups so that under the second decree, which seems to be able to even get to approve with greater intensity, I also do so for the explanations I have tried to give as a member of a parliamentary group that gives precise support to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. The joint debate ended, and as agreed at the Spokesman's Meeting and was announced earlier, we shall proceed to the vote on these two points in the end of the debate on the agenda item at the end of the session. [[Decree-Law 14/2020 of 28 April, on which measures are taken in relation to the Comprehensive Public Health System of Catalonia, in the tax and social fields, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and the adoption of other urgent measures with the same objective]] [[203-00039/12]] Next we move on to the new item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on... Forgive me, the new item is what has been supported together now. And we turn to the point of the order of the day, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 14/2020, of 28 April, for which measures are taken in relation to the comprehensive public health system of Catalonia, in the tax and social sphere, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and the adoption of other urgent measures with the same objective. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. It has the word, first place, Vice President Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.200.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. It will advise, deputies and deputies, the decrees that we have passed approving the last weeks do not only refer to the health emergency caused by the coronavirus pandemic, but also to the economic and social consequences that this pandemic has entailed, and that it has entailed the fact of stopping much of the economic activity and also of the social life of our country, and that they will activating themselves as it advances the plan of decontainment. At a time when the economy and private activity have been blocked by a health empire, what we should not do in any case is to reduce public spending; on the contrary, all that the public sector does not do today to help families, workers, self-employed people and businesses with difficulties will represent a way out of the more expensive crisis and from a situation of more difficulty, and a deepening of the difficulties of most of the country's population. We can see now how citizens have grown exponentially, and citizens who are demanding support, for example, in an environment where they can bring food home. We cannot turn what is a health crisis and what is already a social and economic crisis into a humane crisis. The negative impact on the economy of the coronavirus crisis and the containment measures it has caused to try, therefore, to mitigate the effects have been collected by many economic organizations. This same week the new estimates of the Bank of Spain on the Spanish economy were published, in which they came to predict even a drop of up to 12_percent of the gross domestic product of the Spanish State for this 2020. The International Monetary Fund estimates at global level a reduction of 3_per_cent, especially more intense in advanced economies, more than 6_per_cent. If we look at the activity of the first quarter, of which we already have estimates, we have quarterly reductions to the euro area of 3.8_per_cent, to Italy of 4.7_per_cent, to France of 5.8_per_cent and to the Spanish State of 5.2_per_cent. In those economies initially hit hardest by the pandemic and which have implemented tougher containment measures, the evolution of the economy is obviously getting worse. The quarterly advance of the gross domestic product produced by Idescat shows that in the first quarter of this year 2020 the Catalan economy has reduced by a volume of 4.6_per_cent inter-quarterly, a pronounced fall that is explained by the containment measures from March mid-years– so, we are talking from March 13th–, and an impact of a minus 4.6_per_cent inter-quarterly. In annual terms, therefore, comparing it with the first quarter of the year 2019, the change in GDP in Catalonia has been at a lower rate of 3.9_per_cent; it is the strongest rate of decline since the third quarter of 2009. According to all forecasts, a key factor for the recovery of 2021 is the intensity, the supply and the focus on measures in the field of public expenditure and public investment. In fact, in all the estimates he's a fan and the forecasts he's a fan, he's a fan of different scenes depending on which is the intensity of this public response. Therefore, what we have to do today is all the opposite of what was imposed with the 2008 crisis – therefore, all the opposite of austerity measures – because it would only exacerbate the current difficulties, which are economic, which are already social, but obviously they can bring us to a result of much more precariousness if we do not act decisively. I will not tire of repeating this: this crisis cannot be re-paid by those who have already paid with escreix a 2008 crisis for which they were not responsible. It's time, therefore, to rescue people, workers, workers, the product fabric of the country. They rescued banks two years ago, now it's time to rescue the productive economy. During the alarm state, the use of temporary employment regulation dispatches, ERTOs, which allow staff to be maintained prior to a temporary cessation of business activity, has disappeared. In Catalonia we have more than 700,000 Catalans who are, therefore, covered for an ERTO, but we also have to say that this measure of protection has become a situation of uncertainty. Many of them, mass, still after two months have not seen..., in some cases, few, today already recognized...; but many of them have not seen entrances, which in the end is what counts, entered, the resources for this concept. And, therefore, it is absolutely essential that priority be given to paying these money to workers and workers. We need these resources to be at the bottom of these affected workers and workers, especially because one of the consequences of the 2008 crisis has been an increase in income inequality, and therefore the ability to stay away from families has been reduced. And after two months it's much more complicated to keep pulling the credit line when no resources arrive; it's much more complicated to be able to resort to the few students they have, in case there is no one. Therefore, we need to articulate concrete measures, some of which are modest, but which have had an extraordinary demand, which shows the difficulties in which we have a good share of our lives and our lives. It is time to make these clear and impact measures to ensure that everyone, therefore, has the resources to avoid pitting their situation, their life, from the point of view of social and quality of life. Therefore, good words, good intentions, are fine, but above all what matters are decisions. And therefore, to those people who have remained without tickets, it is not asked that they stoically wait weeks to collect the benefit. All administrations are in difficulty, all of them. Some people can sort out these difficulties thanks to the coverage that makes, for example, the Central Bank, with the purchase of its debt in the secondary market, the European Central Bank. And, therefore, they have more resources to develop the decisions that are at their abst. Among other things, the vital minimum ingredient, which has been announced but has been delayed by approval repeatedly; an initiative that we believe is positive because it must allow to add to the guaranteed income of citizens, which has already been approved in this Parliament by popular legislative initiative and which has been adapted through different modifications and which today counts with an approved regulation. It is essential, therefore, that this vital minimum income can be implemented quickly and in a coordinated manner with the Government of Catalonia in the area of guaranteed citizenship income. Money, resources, to the butxaques of the citizens who have more difficulties. And here we believe it is also important to insist on the need for the State Government to create an economic benefit for families with children. That it can't be that at these times we have to sort between work or children, and therefore, we think we can't take long in this environment. In this decree we specifically incorporate a measure that works to address the misimplement or delay in paying in the area of ERTOS, but also the fall in activity in the local authorities, which are therefore waiting for a termination benefit. Therefore, the Government, ahead of the situation of economic vulnerability to which many families find themselves from the health crisis resulting from the Covid-19, has created an extraordinary benefit for basic sub-administrations, with the aim of paliarizing this situation, intended for workers on their own and with family dependants who suffer a drastic and involuntary decrease in their entrances. The ERTOs will surely be a tool that will have to have a continuity beyond the end of the state of alarm, in the economic sectors that are most affected by the crisis and that have more difficulty in recovering their level of activity expected to affect the pandemic. And I am talking about tourism, which after a decade of uninterrupted growth faces great challenges for mobility restrictions, for the great change in demand and for the transformation, obviously, that will entail, therefore, the change of social costumes pull out of the coronavirus and also the maintenance of security measures. And it will obviously also suffer the impact on the economy of the world. The expenditure on foreign tourism fell, in the face of these restrictions of mobility, in Catalonia, a 66 per year per year during the month of March. It dropped a little less than the tourist name, which dropped a 68_per_cent. Therefore, this benefit which is incorporated in this Decree Law, which, today, in being a Decree Law in force from the moment the Government approves it, has had about one hundred and thousand requests, which have been resolved and made payments quickly, because it is established in the Decree Law, precisely, a system of rapid and accelerated payment. In fact, it's probably..., this service is the process in which, at the length of the last few months, there was more electronic processing on one day of the Government of Catalonia; the inn in the margin of this service. And, in this sense, we need a lot more resources. Not only for measures like this, they have an important but modest abst; we need many more. We will need much more resources and, therefore, call for the responsibility of all those areas where you decide on our life and our economy. And, therefore, we believe that it can be valued in the right direction, always with caution but in the right direction, the announcement of agreement between Chancellor Merkel and President Macron to create a fund with 500,000_million euros to rebuild the post-coronavirus European economies. It went in the right direction; it had been planted by many agents and institutions, as well as the Government of Catalonia, since the first moment. Obviously, it has to be much wider. As was also the case in the right direction, it must also be much wider than the amount announced for the State of €16,000_million to the autonomous communities, as well as the criteria for their distribution. Both funds are based on direct transfers, not prestecs. So they're going in the right direction. It doesn't make us recognize him. It doesn't matter to us, precisely when we've been the most active demanding that it's set in motion. It doesn't make us recognize it, but obviously, so, while we recognize it, we believe..., underlining the need to expand the foundations. Apart from creating an emergency benefit for workers and self-employed persons to cover these expenses of first-requirement items and basic sub-administrations, this decree also takes other measures, such as the postponement of the winding-up of the layout of the padro, the imposition of CO2 emissions to the vehicles of mechanical tracing, between other questions, because the delay in the processes administered makes it much more difficult to set up the padro, the tax, and therefore we adapt the terms to the reality itself, not only of the economy, but also of the Administration of the Generality. And it is also determined that the resources of heritages intended to finance health and care expenses caused by the crisis of the coronavirus can be allocated. Everything we're doing right now because the city has the power to make purchases and basic payments is elementary. From the Government of Catalonia to the new measures, we take decisions every week, such as the approval of the agreement to set aside the ICF Crédit Covid-19, endowed with 700_million euros of direct credit from the Catalan Institute of Finance for loans and loans to enterprises and self-employed persons, which complements 300_million euros of down-end loans to Avalis, which is therefore also the mutual guarantee company of the Generality of Catalonia, or the approval of an employment insurance plan, with 59_million euros of loans for the benefit of self-employed persons, entrepreneurs, local administrations and social economy which is also incorporated in one of the decrees of the Republic of Catalonia which in its own weeks of validity. And, also, thinking of the immediate future, the government has set aside the Commission for the development of the Pla for economic recovery and social protection resulting from the crisis. I want to recognize the effort of all the departments that are driving measures in many areas, and therefore the need, not only for coordination in the strategy, but also in the emergency measures, is essential. We will do so with participation; we will do so with the participation of social and economic agents, administrations and also with the participation of parliamentary groups. Also with the objective of a plan for economic recovery and social protection, not so much focused on the emergence of the first moment, which is what we are covering now, but with the need for structural transformation that we will have to face from the very late. Therefore, we are dedicated, in this and in the same way, to solving the curses that this situation is generating to families, to workers, to businesses, to self-employed people, as a result of the health crisis. The decree that we are bringing to validation today also incorporates other more concrete questions, more in relation to the works that have been put on the march, again, with those works that are more urgent and that have remained paralyzed for the recommendation of the health authorities. Therefore, a new law, which serves precisely, to give continuity to this legislative activity that we are doing the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and which is a vertader set of actions before the coronavirus and the economic and social crisis that it has entailed. This country will get together, I'm not absolutely convinced. We have not gone out to bend the contagious curve, and what we will do now, in the next few months, will be to bend, but no more, the curve of economic activity and shared prosperity. Thank you, Mr President; ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.201.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We will then move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. This turn of action, according to the Board of Spokesmen, will be a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group. It has the word, in the first place, Mrs Naomi of the Street, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.202.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone. Once again, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the families and friends of those who have sadly died from this cruel pandemic; I would also like to wish a speedy recovery to the citizens who are currently affected by this virus. It has been some time since the beginning of the pandemic and it seems that we have already left behind the worst coups of the Covid, speaking in sanitary terms, but we would be fooled if we thought it was all controlled. Dozens of people are still dying for the Covid, still thousands of professionals continue to fight in the front line against the virus; professionals to whom I personally do not plan to spare any applause. Moreover, it is now no longer up to politics in the highest form of the term, politics as a public service and not as a struggle for power. Now more than ever, it is up to all political forces to be part of the solution and not part of the problem, for all those citizens who have lost a loved one or who have had a very bad time because of the virus, for all those who are extremely concerned because they are at high risk and do not know what will happen to them until there is a vaccine. All those people, too, to whom the virus has broken economically and left them without income, all those professionals who have gone out to work while most of the citizens confined themselves at home. All those people who have lived up to the pandemic deserve us, their political representatives, too. And we are at a crossroads and we all have the opportunity to take the right path. A path where criticism is understood as a will to improve, not to make partisanship, but to learn from mistakes. Citizens are very clear that we have an obligation to show that our democracy is mature enough to understand that in exceptional times what matters is not the Throne Games, it is not the electoral calculators or political sectarianism, what matters is to save lives and save jobs. And it is up to us to learn from our mistakes and choose the right path. And in this case, the right way is to support this decree. A decree which is not perfect and therefore has traces of these aesthetic measures, of that policy of headlines and announcements, which so much likes this Government of the Generalitat, but which includes measures which, therefore, will put the Government in front of a mirror and we really hope that it will serve them to realize that they really have an opportunity to amend their policy of confrontation, their involvement in separating and disuniting citizens, opening way for a new stage of social and economic reconstruction. This decree follows the same pattern as other decrees, which are, therefore, disorderly, do not cease to be a salad of issues so different, since, as socio-health rates, the tax of carbon dioxide emissions, aid for families, public works, tourism, recruitment. And, well, since there are so many things, I am going to stop at two issues that seem very important to us, where this Government has a lot of room to make an amendment purpose and learn to do things better. The first relates to the special allowance for basic supplies. A benefit of €200 in one payment, with a very small fund, which has already been exhausted, and I hope, well, that we are all aware that we are approving a benefit that has already been exhausted because sufficient resources have not been allocated. And the problem is that we are in an economic and social crisis without having done our homework before. Well, because when an economic crisis comes you have to have the duties done to be able to deal with it with guarantees, and in Catalonia, therefore, the fight against inequality has never been a priority for any of the previous governments, nor for this one. Poverty has continued to grow in recent years, while economic growth was taking place at the same time. And that is because the Generalitat has not allocated sufficient resources or had the will to combat inequality. In this Parliament a guaranteed income of citizenship was approved, which the Vice-President has mentioned, but... we have always considered that it has not been intended to be efficiently managed by the Government nor has it been adequately endowed because the resources were therefore going to what we call the chiringuitos and the management of this Government, so it was focused on finding out how to jump the rule of law to impose on us all independence. So the pandemic has caught us in a very precarious situation because of the Generalitat's bad head. And to this it has been added that they did not want to listen to us when we repeated to the satisfaction that the budgets were expired and that they did not serve to face the Covid. And this two-hundred-euro benefit has made it more than evident, since the extraordinary fund created to finance it has therefore been exhausted in just a week. And you can't use the excuse that you couldn't know, because we repeated it to society. My colleague, the economic spokesman, José María Cano, in the budget debate, in the committees. And we told them that they had to prepare themselves for what was coming over us and that the only way to do that was to prepare new budgets that would reorganize resources and direct them towards, therefore, councils such as Health and Social Affairs. And that this could only be done by reforming the Administration, correcting that 15_per_cent increase in high office, cutting into superfluous expenses that we all know to free up, therefore, economic resources and redirect those to residences, families without resources and, ultimately, to those resources, those essential public services to deal with crises of this kind. Maintaining expired budgets that did not respond to this crisis has been absolutely irresponsible and yet they remain clinging to expired budgets because they do not want to make the necessary budgetary effort to deal with the destruction of employment. And it is that you have mortgaged the future of Catalans, so, to maintain, as I said, that 15 percent rise in high office, to maintain an administrative structure that is oversized, and to maintain superfluous expenses that neither save lives, nor save jobs, nor save families. And they need a change of course and a change of priorities because poverty is not solved with a very limited benefit that has been exhausted in a week. Poverty has been increasing ever since the beginning of the process, because resources have been investing in disuniting, separating, breaking up coexistence, not alleviating poverty for years. And as long as their chiringuitos are still there, poverty will also continue there and increase. And under no circumstances will it be resolved with a single payment benefit that may help some families and you to take out a nice headline, but under no circumstances will it end the growing structural poverty that Catalonia has suffered since the beginning of the process. And until you recognize the error and begin to amend it, Catalonia will never be able to leave the well in which you have put us. And the other issue that this decree also contains and that seems interesting to us, because that is where the Government has a lot of room for improvement and the possibility of amending many mistakes made in the past, is that relating to tourism. You propose to authorize the Catalan Tourist Agency to hire an emergency campaign for the domestic market in order to revitalize the sector. And the question... the first question that when I read the decree I thought, then, how are you going to attract tourism? Sowing the beaches with yellow crosses again? Sure. I hope that you will be aware that this is not the way to attract tourism and, therefore, here you have a great deal of room for improvement. Because domestic tourism is not going to bring it just with a marketing campaign, but by changing the attitude and behavior that you have had in recent years. They can already put the best propaganda in the world, which the facts speak for themselves. Then, a marquetin campaign is not going to have any credibility if you do not change the attitude after having been, therefore, feeding years the hatred towards the rest of the Spaniards. And until they change their attitude, no one will believe them. So what they have to do is stop feeding confrontation and work for fraternity and coexistence. The attraction of investment, the attraction of work, talent and tourists not only comes with an occasional marketing campaign, because the problem with the attraction of tourism, I repeat, of tourism of the rest of Spain, I repeat, are the background of the Generalitat. What have they shown in recent years? Well, hate, division, hostility, that our compatriots when they come to Catalonia feel that they are not welcome. And look, Mr Vice-President, I suppose you'll remember that picture of yourself with a sign that said: « Every second Spain steals 450_euros. So, I hope you have noticed, you are aware that such marketing campaigns are not the most appropriate. That hurts and we don't want that evil for Catalonia. We want Catalonia to become a reference destination, a place where everyone is welcome and a place where no one feels foreign in their own country. That's wanting Catalunya. To want this little piece of land is to want Catalonia to become a reference of tolerance, plurality, acceptance and not hostility or identity confrontation. A crisis like this must make us all reflect. And, strangely enough, a crisis, then, can mean an opportunity to reflect and to change. And then, to do things better. So you have a chance to change. Do not waste it, because otherwise those who will end up paying, as always, will be Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.203.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is now the return of deputy Ramon Swordler of the PSC Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President of the Government, Members of Parliament. I would like my first words, despite the fact that they have been said and repeated by different parliamentary groups and a formal declaration has been made to Parliament, that they are, therefore, of escalph, of proximity to those families and to those people who have lost their esteem and friends. And also of support and recognition very explicit – as he has also made this chamber and, without exception, all parliamentary groups – to all those people who, through their professions: health care, food chain, transport, logistics, clean or so many servants, have made a little more transitible and more humane this crisis that has struck us and that leads us to this very Ple in this very exceptional situation. You must be with me, Mr. Vice President of the Government, who probably of the decrees that the Government has formulated – probably – this is the most heterogeneous of all. Because the set of measures that have been pointed out here, I will not re-enact them all for a matter of time, but it touches such diverse themes as CO2 tax, which has to do with atmospheric contamination; a collection of public works that, as a result of the Covid, had remained stuck; the impulse of some works through reforms and better at schools. And, in particular, these two themes on which I will also focus, have focused a good part of the attention of his intervention, and I see that also from the other groups, from the parliamentary group that preceded me, basically: the impulse of the tourist campaign, to which I will make essential at the end of the intervention, and, therefore, also in a very particular way, the extraordinary performance for autonomous people. If I had a little time, which I doubt, he'd devote it to some other topic. With regard to this extraordinary performance for basic sub-administrations, the first one to manifest – and it has become clear from the Vice-President's words – is that we are, therefore, before this, of concrete, timely help, 20_million_i_mig euros distributed in aid of two-hundred_euros for families belonging to a collection, therefore of self-employed, self-employed, self-employed, dissociated – that there has been much, unfortunately – to lose, to see how their economic activity has fallen, and that they have been able to gather. And so much so, therefore, that the demand, as you said yourself, has been round, exceptional, that in a few hours the performance has been exhausted. Therefore, we are not before a guaranteed income, and we could discuss a lot of respect, nor a vital minimum income. We would, of course, like to ask three questions which seem to us to be, in short, important in relation to the collection to which it is intended, which are very usefully the autonomes. We agree with you, and I believe that with all parliamentary groups, that the collection of autonomies is important, essential in our country, for, at least, three reasons. First, because in this context he is one of the hardest hit by the crisis. Secondly, and not minor people, because it's probably one of the most unprotected collections in the economic sphere – and it's not a minor issue. And thirdly, not only because they are an essential part of our economy, 540,000 autonomies, but because they are an essential part of our society. At the back of these 540,000 autonomes there are 540,000 families. Therefore, count on us with the support to approve these aids, but with some critical, purposeful, constructive observations. The first is the failure of the game. The first to be allocated to it was 7_million, in this concrete 20_million, still seems to be insufficient. And that's enough to see with the debate that we had, so just this morning in relation to facts and words. The second observation refers more to the need for social concertation. Some of us were quite puzzled by the reaction of the trade union leaders when they met her: Workers' Commissions spoke of "occurrence; the General Workers' Union spoke, asked, please, that they order their economic proposals; the USOC told them three_quarters of the same, and the Pimec, for example, also asked for a certain order of economic proposals, didn't it? And the third observation respects this theme, it would also be the need to coordinate with other administrations. You didn't talk about it, or you talked about it very indirectly. There is help from the central government, which is the one who is responsible for most of it, certainly, in these collections there are many helpers together. These days I spoke to Sant Vicenç de Montalt, for example. They told me that they were already making one in many ways, among them in Barcelona, yesterday they also announced a little more help, so we are asking – because resources are limited, that is evidence – that there is this coordination, both with administrations and with social agents, as social agents have demanded, in areas, basically, to simplicity, because it is simple to see these aids on the part of recipients and on the efficiency, they understand the effectiveness that actually comes to those that really need it, because they know that they exist, so now there is a lot of profit. In any case, we will give you support, and we will give you these contributions in a positive way, in a constructive way, and count on our support. For what it does to the second area that you have dealt with, that of the campaign, therefore, this, advertising, for the tourist promotion directed to the domestic and Spanish markets. I don't remember the figures, you obviously have them in your head, as Members and Members have them. Tourism represents a 12_percent of our GDP directly and generates 14_percent of the occupation, and the figures you have given the decline of tourism, as a result of the pandemic, are dramatic. Therefore, it is a sector that obviously requires government support. So far, if I'm supposed to translate it, there's been a 2_million-euro match on the part of the corresponding department, and now this economic campaign. We would also like to make four observations of respect in all, I insist, positive, because it seems important to us. The first observation is respect for the content of the campaign. We believe that it will obviously be a deciding factor in choosing health insurance, health security. Therefore, we believe that we must focus on ensuring there, in those circles where this is feasible to do so, health quality, health security, because it will be a factor to rule out or to choose from you, those who have the fortune of being able to do so, which are not so many. And from here we would also like to invite all those people who have the ability, because they have guaranteed their jobs, and to be able to make tourism this summer, that they do it in the terms we plant, this inner tourism, to help save this sector, which is really important. The second observation is respect to the recipient. You speak of the Spanish market's domestic addressees and recipients. We would ask him, and we have transferred this to the councillor, who in the domestic sector also incorporates the south of France when you make the destination, because many municipalities and many tourist equipment from the border of Catalonia with the country of France, in a radius of one hour of car, therefore, have the ability to capture tourism. I'm talking about Empordans, but I can talk about a lot of other final territories, which I also think this tourism is not insignificant. These people can, therefore, occupy our hotel seats and can enjoy our territory, which does not... in this concept of "domestic", do not lose this. I'll do a follow-up on the Spanish market. And also another question, as we said in the first case, of coordination. In this country, for example, parliaments do a very important job of attracting tourists. All of them, without exception, have specific organizations on which tourism is based; they have the corresponding tourism employers: that of the Costa Brava, that of Tarragona, that of Lleida; Barcelona has not articulated through a patronage, but it does have resources, obviously, destined for tourism, and the city of Barcelona also has an organization for tourism. We would ask them to coordinate it, in the area of sharing the message, in the area of security, in the area of security, in the area of security, and in the area of targeting these markets, because we have few resources, and that is where we say and repeat ourselves. So let's look for the maximum efficiency, and fix the proposals that we make are obviously in construction. And the next reflection is in relation to tourism in this area of Spain. There is another campaign, he said – I won't insist on it any more – but it doesn't cost a single euro and it's very effective. And I think, therefore, that it is a condition, surely, not enough, but it would be necessary, that it is mutual respect. And I don't speak for you, Counselor, nor can I say so, but when some members of the Government or parliamentary groups who support the Government flirt with this understatement represented by the Junta d'Espanya do not help in anything. Or they can decide, that they do not come, precisely, to choose Catalonia as a destination, when I am sure it will be a destination, obviously, sure. This morning – and with this I ended – there was an interesting debate between the words and the facts, was made by a member of the CUP making a quote from José Martí and I will understand that, for reasons of proximity, I say the same with a person who, moreover, geographically, is also much closer to me; that is, in this case, Josep Pla. Josep Pla, the year 1930, said that "disengages are produced in politics when there is a deficit between the word and the action. And we believe, therefore, that there has been a great deal of difficulty in these moments between the word and the action. The words sound good, everything you've said since here sounds good, but the actions, when we go down to the presuppositional realization, when we go down to certain aspects, so I think they leave a lot, a lot, in short, to desire. Therefore, in this sense, our action – and understand it this way – is to support this decree, to support the productive economy, to support the tourism sector – certainly important to our country – and to support, obviously, all that culture of self-government that is in a truly critical situation, and therefore we will give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.206.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and deputies present, who heard us from home and vice president Aragones. First of all, join me in thanking the workers of this country, the health workers and all the rest of the workers of this country who are supporting the economy and life at such difficult times and also join me in expressing condolences to the victims of the health emergency. We're discussing a decree that I think has, basically, four parts, that are quite different; it's a little bit of a poti-poti. Agraim – it's not a criticism, huh? – that we take advantage to make decrees that touch various things and we can solve them more quickly, but I think it does deserve, tell us, separate interventions on each sector. I think we're living a political moment where you're precisely – you, the Republican Left companies and companies – dedicate a large part of your work to social media to talk about alliance policy. It's very good to do so, but this late when you pass the decree on private sanitation and its financing with the PP and City, dedicate it to it today too, because I don't think it's very good what you're doing here. I believe that all political groups – all of them, not just those that we have given you support in the adoption of assumptions, that I think we should be able to discuss some elements, if not all else – are at the disposal of this government to discuss health policy, economic policy and social emergence. And I think that, that you have a decree like this, today, that basically over-finances private health care in this country, and, basically, establishes a blank cheque that doubles the forecasts of private health care employers, and that, moreover, does so in a situation where Catalonia's citizenship and Catalonia's public health care deserve extraordinary economic efforts, is a shame that, as a minimum, would deserve some public reflection. The first part of this decree, which has to do with the medical bill, for us is no longer a reason for discussion, because basically what it does is clarify the previous decree, with which we disagree and vote against it. And, therefore, it clarifies it in a few points that for us not only alter the feeling and position of our vote, basically, we have already said, because it overfinances private sanitation, because it recognizes them right to benefit from a health emergency, and I think they are two elements that for us there is no shortage of discussion. And, therefore, to go well, I will make my appreciation of the rest of the decree. This part, given that it does not alter the substance of the matter, I believe that our opinion will already be expressed by voting against the previous decree. About the CO2 emissions tax. We are now sharing the moratorium you proposed on CO2 tax. I believe that there are some sectors, within and outside the government, that have not digested the tax reform that we have put in place in the assumptions: the increase in taxes to the upper middle classes and the recovery of the tax on assets and estates. And I think that some of these sectors are taking advantage of the current situation to say: "Home, in a good situation, perhaps who else should contribute and who pollutes the most, but in this situation, much better to drop all taxes and demand that social spending be covered by the rainwater that falls. And I think it's a position that, if before it seemed irresponsible to us, now, frankly, it seems to be delirious to us, this position of demanding, for example, to the State, that it would go away from taxes and assume expenditure. We already know where it ends in the next campaign to say that the State is a failed state, etc. I think that at this point what we need is to be able to explain something very simple: from this crisis we will get out on the contrary of 2008. But that implies a series of things. We'll get out of it by redistributing income and distributing wealth to the country to stop this time, and we'll do it not only with a tax reform – and with what we've already approved with you – we need to do it in many more areas. It cannot be that what we gain from tax reform is lost in wage devaluations, and that is why it is important, now more than before this crisis, to repeal labour reform. It cannot be that the one who loses with the tax reform, the one who wins the popular classes and the conjunction of the citizenry with the tax reform, loses him no chance to regulate the price of the loguer. And that's why it's important that this income transfer isn't just in public accounts but is integral in the company's joint venture. Now, we are aware that there are difficulties, and we are aware that there will be sectors that will have much less recapturing of what they had predicted, and we are aware that it has been imposed that in this situation they do not operate normally and that it will be necessary to look at each case as a reflection of this discussion. And we are supporters who are doing exactly as you proposed here, making a moratorium, earning time and exempting for a while, but not condoning iniciators, but feeling a chance to rethink this debate when the health emergency passes, and when we have more reliable economic forecasts of recovery, and therefore we agree with what you have proposed. About helping basic sub-administrations. Clearly, planting an aid of 20_million euros that basically what is supposed to be payments of 200_euros, let's say, is lends to many criticisms: to the criticism of the insufficiency, obvious; to the criticism of the propaganda that will then become, etcetera. We, throughout this discussion, have tried to maintain the same position, that all help is little, and that, therefore, all help is welcome, and that, therefore, we will support it, because more, I think that if all parties, huh? – and I'm not just talking about mine – I know cases of militants from my party who have called for it, I'm sure you know people from your background who, unfortunately, have needed it because they're self-employed who are waiting for the extraordinary performance for cessation of activity, because they're workers who are waiting for the ERTOs to be charged, or for the event, or they have a drop in admissions over this situation. And in the measure that this allows you to pay for basic sub-administrations: light, water... Play a function. All right. We recognize that they are useful in these measures and we are not in favour of undermining them, because we consider that all play a function and play an important function at the time that among all of us we can build a minimum network, a minimum social listening that allows no one to fall out of the right to have a decent life, basically. But we think it's important to rearrange all these areas of help that some of the administrations are putting themselves on the market. And we believe that, that it's run out in a week is a symptom of its usefulness, but it's also a symptom that we need to be able to go further and rethink what we're doing from each administration. The first evidence – the company of Units for Forward commented – lacks social dialogue. It cannot be that an administration provides assistance and all the social actors represented criticize it for the lack of transparency, the lack of forecasting, clarification of what is being done, etc. I believe that the social actors, especially the social actors linked to the world of work, have a lot of information and have a lot of wisdom as to be able to assess, together with the Government, the quality and the focus that are the different measures. The second: it will be necessary to reorder what each administration does in this country, because we only have help that is doubling in a municipality. There are citizens who today offer them a similar help, others who do not; other citizens who in their municipality the right to sub-administration is covered in one way or another. Introducing, we have the Law against the poor energy that has not been deployed regularly. Think about it too. Therefore, we build itineraries. What a city can say: "I have this need to survive, whose administration do I have to address and what procedure do I have to follow? And I think that as far as we can clarify this, we will also make life easier for a lot of people who are in the intranets today, who are dealing with a lot of tortuous people, who don't know where to go, who have the citizen care offices locked up in their municipalities, and who are overtaken by a situation where many of them don't know the rights that they are recognized, among others, with decrees like this. And I think we need to do that. And on tourism, it is true that its government, from its government, moments of its government, photos of the past are ready for many jokes, but it is also true that in our country, in past times, worst of our history, national tourism in situations like this was a mandatory practice for many public workers, for workers who had guaranteed their conditions. Surely today neither heat nor would be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.207.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.208.0	...obligatory – and with this I'm done – but I think that everything that allows us to supplement the fall of tourism, calling on the inner tourism, also to Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.209.0	Ahabi, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.210.0	... between Catalans, not just outside, it will be useful for us, and therefore, we value it positively and we will abstain in the conjunction of the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.212.0	If we were to vote on this decree for the first of the articles, obviously the feeling of our vote would be a non-rounding. Mirin, the letter that says this decree: "To clarify the billing of hospital outpatient dispensation medication – that we have a first problem if it is to be clarified – "to add a fee for the long social health status for Covid-19 and to establish that the activity of long social health status to patients without the Covid-19 will be compensated according to the level C fee. I must simply refer to what we have explained when we refer to Decree 12/2020, and therefore, no. But we want to stay with another meaning of this decree and we will do what is always a disclaimer, which is that you don't value what is a position of which you rule when you object; we don't do this politics and, therefore, we want to value what has a positive part and we say what we think is a position and what is not a position. We are obviously talking about the performance of two-hundred euros, provision to cover deputy ministers, food, pharmacy, both for self-employed workers– wage earners, employees, employees, employees– as self-employed or self-employed, who is a woman if there is a 30_per_cent reduction – then we will mention in what – and in family unit of 2,098,37_euro. Look, when we read about it and we saw the theme of the 30_per_cent, so we saw the trap: unemployment benefit, which is not occupied, 70_per_cent and, therefore, you are also moving in one reality, in some shields that left out a whole series of collections. But the big trap – and we wouldn't want to talk about it – is with this term, "the trap, but we think it's the big failure of this regulation – it's only 20_million. I, therefore, two-hundred_euros, 20_millions, one hundred_ thousand people. Although, as positive as it is, we value not voting against this validation but abstaining. And we'll ask them to get it back on track, and to put it back down no 20_million, but to put in, obviously, a sum that comes to cover everyone who's in the objective situation. We also ask for two things: the first, a literal interpretation of the norm. The literal interpretation of the rule means that if you say that you have suffered an involuntary reduction in labor returns, in this case, we are talking about the 30-70_per_cent, which is about labor returns. And whoever they approve of an unemployment benefit doesn't return work. This isn't a job income. That's important, too. And second, a finalist interpretation, that if the rule that you say is: « family income not exceeding 2,098_euros, so if the income does not exist, and « input always means« entry, since you have not received the unemployment benefit, which does not take into account. That's phoney. More than it's sold out now. We understand that what obviously fails is the lack of endowment, since 20_millions are not enough. We'd have to have another regulation. But, obviously, it is covering those that the Ministry of Labour, rather than the SEPE, is not covering. It has done us a lot of harm that the Ministry of Labour says: "Commitments have been banned. It's not true. It has done us a lot of harm that the Ministry of Labour says: « Next six months with an ERTO, it cannot be welcomed. It's not true. It has done us a lot of harm that the Ministry of Labour says: « Those companies that own tax havens or that share dividends cannot be joined to an ERTO. It's not true. But the one who hurts us the most, no doubt, is all those people who today have not yet received the unemployment benefit. We agree that the governing groups in the Spanish State... also those who are here, you have to hurt them. That's why we ask them, and in a very special way here, we can present Members of Podemos, who are doing well; that they don't spend their time coming to insult the CUP for the cartels and that they put all their intensity in which means that these workers and these workers can get the benefit. And, my dear, we give them from a point of view charity, and charity not in the meaning of almoina, but in the meaning of compassion love. We always place them, fellows and fellows of the commons, to find us in the street fighting, fighting for these benefits; fighting to repeal the real labor counter-reform, not a three-hour fake; fighting to have the 78th rule fallen, and fighting for what it is to fight the caste, which is until four days ago it was you. We'll put them in place to meet us on the street. That's right, if you're here to give the CUP and defend Mrs. Calvino, who represents the troika, you'll find us there with absolute strength. And finally, and also returning to the decree: contract of the Catalan Institute of Finance. We have already explained to them when they carried it, in the first place, in another decree, our oppositions, but in this case, there is also a more positive part, which is in relation to covering lines of financing of the autonomies. Therefore, our abstention has felt. And, lastly, a reflection of legislative technique: you are bearing, in some of the decrees, questions that are not urgent. We don't only give them for this, but for the four of us what we had the debate on today. And we'd ask them, so they'd be more fun.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.213.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Esperança García, of the Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.214.0	MPs, MPs, councillors. Well, what I best describe, then, is this decree that you're taking to vote here today is a tailor's room. We understand that the exceptional situation requires cross-cutting measures and, therefore, it is true that the socio-health crisis forces a little, let us say, the legislative technique. We will not object to the approval of this decree, but we do believe that consideration is necessary to respect those assumptions involving admissions and those involving expenses. We believe that the variety of materials that deals with this decree can only be reduced in this: tickets and expenses that help us, a little, to spin a little earlier than the same decree does. Regarding the tickets, what you are proposing is an adjournment of the payment of the emissions tax on the mechanical traction vehicles, and what we see in this decree is that the problem with this tax is that you are raising it not because of the health crisis, but because you are not prepared to collect it. You postpone the 2019 payment until 2021 and the 2020 payment until 2022. And anyone would think that it could be very good that, at a stage of socio-economic crisis caused by the health crisis, the payment of a tax is assumed. But it's not enough. And it's not enough because the deposit was already a mistake for itself. And what we believe, and what we defended from the People's Party, is that Catalans already had enough tax pressure. So, what we're asking you is that this tax burden doesn't come off, it's not a pilot coming forward, and you're just thinking about if you're not prepared, if it's not the time and if the tax wasn't right at the time, that the derog for all of you and you're not waiting for 2021 to do it, and you're doing it directly now. Because now, at this time, tax overload does not help either to save business, or to give opportunities to find and generate new jobs, and it is already very clear to families. With respect to the fate of the heredity of which the Generality would benefit. It seems fantastic to us that you decide to use these resources directly for the health crisis and for the socioeconomic consequences that many citizens suffer from this crisis, but we will be vigilant. And we will be vigilant because you have a background that is dedicated to these resources to finance the Platform for Language and Cultural Heritage. And these two entities do not have much less to help the citizenry in a situation like this, and more quickly hinder the creation of a prestige of Catalonia, which I will then link with the tourism proposal. With regard to expenditure, we are fully in agreement with the system of health reimbursement for the long-term socio-health status or for the dispensation of medicines from the Covid; it seems correct to us. We also believe that the social aid measures contained in Article 3 are completely uncertain. We believe that the situation of social emergence is what it is: 716 000 Catalans have suffered an ERT, yet many have not recovered from the SEPE, in fact, are noranta_mil. It gave before a deputy the hundred_th thousand, that if we made the calculation of the 20_million and the two-hundred_euros of performance practically squared. We believe that it is also necessary, given that we have half a million Catalans in the past and we have autonomies that do not have many of their performances, so that they do alternative measures that complement these. We also propose to them, since the Government of Spain has left the families with children under seven years of age until fourteen, who help these families to overcome this health crisis, which is seen to be prolonged over time. I also believe that the measures for the bidding of works comply with public schools are good. Now, I think it would be good, except that you should reflect on the respect of the measures and the adequacy of the classrooms to the rates of students per classroom, given the persistence of this health crisis, and also of a definitive replacement of the barracks. Twenty-thousand Catalan students cannot continue to study in barracks, and less with a health crisis like this. I think it's also important to make a specific element of this tourism campaign. Look, I don't think there's anything wrong with this campaign. If you have been a responsible government, a government that has not been encouraged that is a key thinker of Catalan plagiarism, that is less than the rest of the Spanish people in all the territory, that more are campaigning for the promotion of brains Fuck Spain... Let the sector that is proactively participating in this campaign, that are the least harm they have, those who know and appreciate tourism and those who can transmit better than anyone else that Catalonia is a unique experience of culture, nature and gastronomy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of Congresswoman Anna Caula, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.216.0	Thank you, Vice President. Today we are here to speak of decrees to advance, to advance in concrete aspects needed in the arena, to give valid and effective answers in real time. As the Vice-President explained, these decrees are not only to respond to health emergencies but also to address their economic and social consequences, and to fight, to ensure a progressive return to work before one of the greatest and most immediate challenges, and that we have never found ourselves as a society. A period of uncertainty is being managed and at an unprecedented speed at any institution. A shock caused by the impact of Covid-19, with one obligation: we cannot let this pandemic serve to consolidate an unequal society and economy. Objection, we say: lead, reverse and ensure that no one is left behind. The entrepreneurial state that arrives there where the private sector cannot get there; the leadership of the public sector to promote a growth of equity, sustainable and, above all, sustained in time, and to take advantage of this crisis to emerge strengthened as a society of well-being, thinking about and for people, our ways and ways. This decree, as was the case with the PP's company, probably has a point of call of tailors that affects different areas, and it is totally understandable, because it wants to give responses to the emergency, the daily need and on multiple fronts that has opened up this pandemic. We therefore appreciate the daily task of all departments and the staff of the Government of Catalonia, and we also want to extend it to various branches and institutions, and to all civil society and private enterprise, because everyone's involvement at this time has never existed before history. We say, of all people, that this decree stands out above all for this 20-million performance to help the different families who have suffered a reduction in admissions. It's direct help, immediate help. And at the moment of the greatest incidence of the need for value in three parameters, three parameters that sometimes in institutions do not take hold of the hand, but these aids usually arrive much later than people really need, and immediately and then we can say that an aid that was opened at the end of May 69,000 families have already collected it. That's immediate, that's solving it, even though it's true that we all agree that it's insufficient, and as long as it is, and so much good that money is needed in the Generality to be able to double, triple and make that effort. But what's already there is a endowment that's already reached the families of 20 million. We've posed, too... well, let's contextualize it a little bit, huh? We said, 40_percent of these aids have reached people affected by ERTO, and 23_percent to workers affected by the reduction of autonomes. So, up to that fabric that really needs this help because for them survival is vital month by month. And what's important: they have put money in the pockets of families that have gone unresourced or seen them drastically reduced, or, quite simply, that depend on the payment of ERTOS, that two_months after they have not yet arrived, they see col·lapsades in some cases their management of domestic expenditure. And we're working so we don't get to a point where I don't come back for a lot of these people, because so good is the payment of ERTOs, in everybody's mouth, and that the government at times perversely insists on linking to the state of alarm, keeping the celerity of this help, because the working class would breathe. We say, these aids are vital, and the immediateness of these aids is vital. Thus, this decree also reactivates other sectors, such as that of the workers – all those that can be reactivated by means of possibilities – because it is another way to reinvigorate our economy, to put money in circulation, which is what is needed. As we say: this twofold path, these 20_million that are immediate inputs, of economy that begins to circulate, and, with basic products, and mastering the economy basically of proximity, with a direct injection of liquidity. And yes, we raise different taxes, but with all this objective of betting on active policies, and not just passive policies. We've talked a lot about these times of austerity, how the 2018 recession affected and who it affected; it's all known that it's carried to the bottom of the worst, but the recovery afterward did go to the bottom of the richest. And that's what Republican Left doesn't want to play again. In 2017 the average wage per working day of the 10_percent of the rich was 4.8 times higher than that of the 10_percent of the poor. This reality is not what we want to reproduce again, and we see that even though I have changed so many times as the color of different governments is needed, this is not changed. We want decisions that redistribute wealth, and proximity. In fact, some other company: it's all known that closer, more quality of service and more knowledge of the real realities of our fellow citizens. Not refocusing, because we've seen that they're not viable. We cannot forget that when some spoke of austerity for everyone, they were generous with what they had most; while they shared the essential expenditure for social cohesion, they gave gifts to the most benevolent classes in the country, such as the abolition of inheritance taxes, and it was essential to avoid perpetuating injustice and guaranteeing equal opportunities. What is certain, Vice-President, is that this progressive taxation, which is essential for building a country that is fairer and fairer, with the complicity of the commons, must still be said. This redistribution took place later, beyond Catalonia, and the whole of the State: austerity was imposed on sanitation, education and social spending, but, yes, there was time for Mr. Montoro to reform the IRPF to save money on returns of more than EUR 120,000 per year, which, in case someone is at risk, is not a middle class. This implied, in a single exercise, in 2016, a reduction in the state's turnover of 4,183_million euros. The Covid crisis has been valued at 1,800_million foreign in health investment. When someone, like our sanitation companies, questions the task of the Foreign Council with a premise of €76_million, we contrast it with 4,000, who are the ones who should be claiming, because they do resolve all the problems that you have put on the table during the last hour, and not against 76_million, that it is clear that they work for all the Catalan citizens who see outside. And here we could go talking. And yes, we're talking about tax reform. And yes, we're also talking about redistribution where all this pay is approaching the state. Since 2010, the Central Administration has seen its resources increase by 83_per_cent, compared to 18_per_cent of the autonomous communities. This is because austerity and its relaxation have only been used to refocus resources. And if the deficit target is distributed according to public expenditure, it would have to assume a margin of 58_per_cent for the State and a 31 for Catalonia. But the arbitrariness of PSOE and PP leaves it in 89 for the State and 11 for the rest; 11 against 31_per_cent. And today they come here and, with good words or with demand, they tell us that the reversal of resources is insufficient. I think there'd be a thought here. Today we have been told and raised from the PSC bench, in the three decrees, many and many demands. They told us that they have proposed to the central government a commission to talk about reconstruction, but we would also tell them: they have launched an investigation on the repeal of the labor reform, which they carry promising years? Campaign slogan, compromise application, and that already forms part of this government program thanks to Podemos. But you go here, they're also using it now to make a deal with Bildu and make us a flag, which is all they've achieved with this last decree of alarm; dumb paper, because it lasted a day. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, please, very, very, very, very trulerism. What does it look like to us if we propose a commission of inquiry in Madrid, now, about how they're managing the Covid? Come on, come on, let's do it, we're still strong, but not just to demand the others, but to prove with facts, as they reminded us, that beyond promises there can be actually facts that accompany them. And yes, Mrs Escarp, you said: « the appearance of Minister Illa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.217.0	You're out of your mind, now you're out of your mind.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.218.0	...every week in the department. But here they call us that the different councils what it seems is that they have to donate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.219.0	Ahabi, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.220.0	...goes to the Spanish State because he has majesty in giving us permission to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the return of Toni Morral, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.222.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, never – never – we had to meet, to save lives, to hide at home..., to propose the people who stayed at home and to put up with the country's activity. That's what's been going on for two months. When one thing of this magnitude is present, at the front we have the unknown, uncertainty and take on the protagonists often also the por. In this context he had to manage..., quickly the government, what easy people. In this difficult situation, because what is at stake is life, we must highlight the civic behavior of the people, who has been impeccable. And the vocation of serving those who have had to guarantee basic services, risking their salvation and even life. It was impressive. All of our recognizance. This is an intangible value of this crisis and a great act of country: the resilient attitude of the citizenry. Now, today, reduce infections, gradually return to normality. But also to save lives we have to do it cautiously. This is also new, both for the government and for us, the citizens of this country. We've got to do it right. But in this context, here, we are. The economic crisis is already here, when the health care provider is not done yet. The social and economic landscape is new, and not encouraging. From this situation there is no social and economic activity that is not affected. Large and small businesses; trades, restoration, tourism, which in today's decree approve measures for their support; autonomies, which in today's decree approve measures for their support; workers who have remained unworkable, others who are uncertain whether they will charge the ERTO or the ERTE – depending on whether we talk about it in català or castella –; in one way or another we are all affected. In a very special way, I want to mention the young people who need to see and see the future in their lives and in their projects. And that context really doesn't help. We are living a moment, this, concrete, that has come to us in a slender, but terratremol-like way, in which the government has had to make decisions in an agile and rapid way, without having been able to plan anything. And, as it could not be in another way, prioritizing aid to the most vulnerable, to the social sectors that in a more striking way have seen their day-to-day, an unimaginable situation that week-end after March 12, when the agenda changed radically. Vulnerability has been in very wide social spaces. Today, we're all feeling vulnerable to the skin. We could say that vulnerability has become systemic, because this crisis, much different from viscudes, poses a lot of structural weaknesses in our system. In fact, we're standing in front of the miracle, and today it's been talked about. For example, the residence management model. For example, the social protection system of autonomes. For example, of the lack of protection of good part of the workers and cultural creators. Only for three examples. We need to prioritize the goal of maximum liquidity because people aren't always out of work. "Save people," he said. The government has put all the resources and skills that are in its grasp to deal with the first social impacts, which are immense at this stage of confinement. And that's what these decrees were; decrees that are of cross-cutting content, various, certainly, with measurements of various departments, such as cross-cutting ones are also the effects of this crisis. Obviously, we share the proposals of the decrees, as it could not be in any other way, and at the same time put in place the effort made by the Government, but we have to say that this effort is decompensated for the lack of resources to meet the social needs we have and the challenges that we face in the face of this crisis. For what it does to the concrete social measures that this decree lays down, the Government has acted with diligence in those very concrete situations, but important for the people who have seen them affected: the children who have been involuntarily separated from their parents because of the confinement, must condition the logistics of gathering and resources to cover it, and thus attend quickly to a situation of all unexpected, as many have not, and as measures in this decree, which are diverse. It is a matter of responding with all these measures. It also helps those families who have seen themselves without unexpected entrances so that they can't go to work – people who live from day to day, workers who have seen themselves affected by ERTO, workers who have seen each other at a time, unable to cope with the most basic needs that have generated them from this situation – with this help that has already been mentioned, a modest but important help for people at the concrete moment who have rejected it, of two hundred euros. Cal pose as a manifesto with the rejection, let's just say, this help. A game that ended in fourteen days, attracted almost one hundred_ thousand people. An indicator of clear need and clear, also, insufficiency. I also want to mention a concrete aid which is found to be very people with a need to cover, which is not concretely in this decree but which seems important to me: extraordinary aid for the payment of the quotas. These 14,5_million euros that the State provides to us to cover these needs, a quantity of all insufficient – of all insufficient – that does not cover nor does it cover the ordinary needs of an ordinary year course as was the year 2019. But despite the effort to add State aid to the resources of the Generality's assumptions, resources are still insufficient. It has been said by active and passive that a situation such as this should provide liquidity to the system. To release the blocking measures from the assemblies' treasuries, and to authorize the generality to be deficient. But here our government is stubborn for the state, unable to get direct help from the European Community for the fact that it is not, and therefore we hope that these help will arrive in the amount that the country needs. Perhaps now it will be easier to hear why in your day we asked this Parliament for a new Statute with new skills and resources. Or why it later called for the economic concert, or why, before the negatives of the State, we bet for the 9-N consultation and, later, for the referendum of '1 October. And maybe you'll also get along because there are so many of us who are independent today. Because, in fact, it is about this: the right to dispose of the resources that are of the people of this country and to put them to the service of the people of this country. It's so simple, and at times like these, it's when the urgency of having these resources is more obvious. Now the emergence has to be done with due diligence. But this crisis is also accompanied by the global crisis of dominant values, based on the management of the principle of infinite abundance and unjust distribution of these resources. The crisis invites us to reverse these values. We look at how in the civic initiations today the value of proximity, equity, generosity, sustainability, civic empowerment takes strength. In this sense, the capital of this country is rich and needs to be accompanied. That's why we can start thinking about structural reforms based on these values as well as promoting initiatives such as universal basic income or a powerful investment in building a public housing park in order to logue, and so many others. But now, of course, it is up to the government, to strengthen alliances of cooperation with organised civil society and to be demanding with the powers of the State so that we can deal effectively, agilely, liquidately and compete with entry to a new normality, and we can see the outcome of the crisis close to and with hope. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.223.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, as announced earlier, we shall proceed to the vote on the validation of this decree by the end of the debate on the agenda item at the end of this session. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into the management of large people's residences]] [[252-00025/12]] The next item is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the creation of a committee of inquiry into the management of large people's residences. As this resolution proposal is signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, we proceed in the first place to a turn of intervention of two minutes for each group – including the subgroups – to present the proposal and position themselves on the issues. So, the first word is Mrs Naomi de la Calle, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.224.0	Good afternoon again. It is no secret that the addiction care system already had many deficiencies prior to the appearance of the coronavirus. Twenty-four times in twenty-four different interventions I myself have asked for the Social Services Portfolio to be updated to solve the situation we had in the residences. And I have insisted until exhaustion because it cannot be that in 2020 it is working with professional ratios and a budget allocation designed for the social reality of 2007, a time when waiting lists for access to a residential place were not so disorbited and, therefore, the degree of dependence of people who were in this type of resources was not so high. And that meant that it didn't take so much staff to take care of them because a large part of them were autonomous people, and also because the cost of the care they needed was lower. Thirteen years have passed since then, in which waiting lists have grown excessively and, therefore, it is so long since a place is requested until it is received that, when people finally reach their place, their degree of dependence is very high. And therefore it is not the same to care for thirty people with sufficient autonomy to eat and clean if to care for thirty people who need support even to go to the washbasin. In short, what we now have is a lack of staff and a lack of budget. And that is what is happening in Catalonia: that the Generalitat forces residences to work with professional ratios and with economic endowments designed in 2007 for a very different reality. And the law that regulates this Social Services Portfolio says it should be updated every four years. Since the Government, for failing to comply, does not comply with social laws, it has not updated this portfolio once. It has the portfolio designed in 2007 extended since 2011. Why? Because updating the Social Services Portfolio involves money. And since they do not want to cut into political bars to allocate resources to citizens who need the protection of the administration, they have caused year after year the quality of care given to the elderly to fall and fall to make it practically impossible to care for those with the dignity they deserve. And so, from Citizens we are pushing in this Parliament the opening of a policy committee to improve the quality of life of older people who are currently studying – among other things – what has caused this decline in quality in the attention given to them, and we have presented a work enlargement plan that will be voted on 29 May to start a specific line of study on the impact of the Covid. And we use it to reach out to all groups by listening and providing, therefore, all kinds of proposals and appearances to work together, with the aim of really improving the quality of life of our elders and responding to current needs. To all the deterioration of the system caused by the inaction of the Generalitat in recent years has been added that the Generalitat has acted late and badly in the management of the coronavirus, leaving the residences totally abandoned, unprotected and without any kind of control: the perfect scenario for the virus to enter them and camp wide and cause ravages. And here many things have failed at all levels, and there have also been anonymous heroes who have collapsed to avoid death. There are people to be asked for responsibilities and others who deserve all the thanks of the world. And Citizens are part of the parliamentary groups that have requested this committee of inquiry because we want to know what has happened, what have been the wrong decisions, who or who are responsible for them, so that this does not happen again. We want to know why before the state of alarm was declared, when the residences themselves were alerting the councillor that in order to protect them they had to restrict family visits, the councillor prevented this restriction of visits by threatening to punish the residences that did so. We would also like to know whether the information that there were suppliers of residential supplies who were prohibited from supplying the masks is true and, if so, we would like to know who is behind this decision. We want to know why the contradictory protocols of the different administrations that even for the management of the waste of the residences were with two different protocols: one of the Government of Spain and the other of the Government of the Generalitat, both contradictory. Whom were they supposed to listen to? Was this really the most efficient thing in the midst of a pandemic? Well, we don't think so. We also want to know who is responsible for flagrantly violating the measures decreed in the state of alarm allowing the elderly to leave the centers without confirming their negative in the Covid, nor that of the relatives with whom they were going to live. And we want to know who is responsible for such fear that has put the lives of older people and their families at risk. We also want to know why there have been people who have spent more than fifteen days without knowing anything about their family member because the residence, in this public case, answered them that they could not give them information. Fifteen days of distress. We also want to know who is responsible for denying disinfection by the EMU, and which may have resulted in the virus doing much more damage to residences. We want to know why in Palafrugell five octogenarian nuns had to perform disinfection work at their residence because the city council rejected the help of the army. And we want to know whether behind that insistence on denying the aid of the EMU to replace that with private companies is hiding some kind of profit and economic interest at the cost of the loss of life of many elderly people. And it is for these and other reasons that we have provided our signature for the creation of this committee of inquiry into the management of residences in relation to the Covid, because many citizens need answers and know what has happened. And it is also for these same reasons that since Citizens we have not accepted, we did not want to accept the amendments of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra, out of respect for all those families that have lost a family member in a residence. Because the amendments clearly have the intention of diluting and eternalizing a committee of inquiry including a debate that has nothing to do with bringing to light the mistakes made in the management of the pandemic. Obviously, this crisis has caused many masks to fall. One of them, the Generalitat's little interest in caring for the elderly. And of course the system needs to be reviewed to strengthen it, but for that there is already the Policy Review Committee to improve the quality of life of older people, a committee that has been working for many months, and that already has a lot of work ahead of it. A committee which, by the way, members who support the Government, parliamentary groups are in a hurry to close. What happens to them is that they want to block this commission of inquiry by eternalizing and distracting that of its function, while they want to close a commission of study that would issue a report with recommendations and measures for the Generalitat to implement them in order to be able to care for the elderly as they deserve? And if they are really concerned about the residential care model, and if this model has had much to do with the situation that Covid has caused in the residences, they are voting in favour of the extension of the work plan next day 29 in the Committee on Policy for Older Persons, because it is not understood that they are putting these amendments here and in the committee that is already open specifically for this, because they are thinking of voting against it. Next week we will really check whether you are concerned or not to prevent new Covid repuntes in the residences, whether or not you want the Generalitat not to abandon the day users if they see a rebound again, as has happened, because of course, they have closed the day centers, the users have been thrown away without any kind of attention, while they were withdrawn from the dependency benefit, thus preventing them from hiring someone on their own. We will also check whether they are concerned about those elderly people who have become isolated, and that because they are not users of home care or social services, they have been abandoned to their fate, and if they therefore also care about the loneliness of older people aggravated by confinement, which will undoubtedly have serious cognitive and motor consequences. Look, we weren't afraid of the job. We are very clear that the best way to honor our elders is to leave our skin to protect them from this damn virus, and we look forward to the support of the enough parliamentary groups in the vote that will take place today. Obviously, then, we have obtained a parliamentary majority, but it would also be good to get the support that the Government should prove that it is therefore interested in reaching the bottom, right? , of what has happened. And we also expect the support of sufficient parliamentary groups in the vote to be held next week in the Committee on the Study of Older Persons, so that we can all study the most appropriate measures to ensure their quality of life. We are talking about people who have built the world we live in, who have taken care of us when we were little, when the dependents were us, and from Citizens, we want a work plan in the Policy Committee for the Major People that guarantees their protection in Covid times, and we want a commission of inquiry to know what has happened with the management of residences. In this line he will work for Citizens, bearing in mind that our obligation is to care for those who need our protection most. In no case does it protect governments, but by protecting people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.225.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units is now the return of Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.226.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.241.0	No, it doesn't look like it. Deputy, just a moment. I don't know if there's any technical problems. I'll try it again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.227.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, then, whatever it was. Thank you, President. Mr., Mr., Councillors, Vice President, Councillors, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar jointly signed with the rest of the parliamentary groups that are bringing together this committee of inquiry into the management of residences during the period of the Covid-19 in Catalonia. And we were convinced and convinced of our role as a parliamentary opposition group, but also as representatives of the city council and citizens who have suffered from the pandemic, who have lost their families, to whom we send all our solidarity. Citizens and citizens who have been infected, infected, professional who have left their skin to work in very precarious conditions and who continue to work today to fight the Covid-19, and all of them and they our recognition. It's very simple, we want to know what happened, what worked, what didn't work in the management of residences. We want to know what went well, but above all, what we want is to know how we should do it in the event that there is a rebound, or that there are similar situations in the future. It's that simple. If we take the data facilitated by the Department of Health, since the beginning of the pandemic some 4,000 people have died in the residences, and it has increased, 13,000 have been infected and 33,000 have symptoms of being infected too, and 3,000 professionals are found low. And with this reality, I'm surprised that the groups that bring together the government, together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, consider or have considered that creating a commission of inquiry is political. Up to now, the Republican Left has set up this committee of inquiry and the House of Commons on residences, led by our parliamentary group with the support of the CUP, the PP and the commons, as an excuse to vote against the extension of the fifteen-day state of alarm. Published in press. I will tell you more: a few days ago Vice President Aragones said that it was very sad to use this topic to make partisanship, with reference to this commission. Yesterday, a few moments ago, he was announcing that he would give it up. You see, maybe it's not the opposition that makes politics. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the deputies of the Republican Left, creating an investigation commission or a monographic ple is neither sad nor partisan; it is a right of the deputies and the deputies. What is possibly partisan is to use it as the currency of change for other political negotiations. The Socialists and the Socialists will not make the problem of residences any currency of change. Wanting to switch the silence of opposition on the issue of residences for a recollection to such a necessary measure, as the state of alarm may be, is unworthy. Opposing there, to both things, is directly immoral. Lucky they've rectified. Late, as always, and bound surely for a majority of Parliamentarians. Probably the figures in Catalonia and other autonomous communities won't be very different, and we'll see when we have the figures. Now, have all autonomous communities managed it the same way? No, no, And here's the object of this commission of inquiry. And as long as it takes to compare feta management for Republican Esquerra, for the Government of Catalonia, with feta management for other autonomous communities! But what we want to do is how it happened here – how it happened here. And neither does it seem so strange that this is tomorrow from the Parliament of Catalonia. Our parliamentary group, the communiqués of employers, managers of residences, workers' unions, the plataforms of family members, the same residents, agree that the management has been inadequate, nor has it been expected in a state of health crisis. We asked them for authority, and this did not exist, in an area of full autonomous competence, with the possibility, moreover, of intervening in the private residential area. Since the first week, our parliamentary group had been asking for four things: the medicalization of residences, the transfer of the hardest residents to hospitals, the proper provision of self-protection material and the replacement of workers who had been laid off. The meds didn't make it. There's been some equipment, but the meds didn't make it. Changing the competition to Salut doesn't mean medicalizing residences, does it? The self-protection material arrived late, very late, and without criteria. There was certainly a global problem in meeting the demand for this type of material, but it must be acknowledged that, in the order of priorities, residences for large people or people with disabilities were not priorities. While in the hospital sector, therefore, beds were provided for patients, the residential sector was oblivious. Two hundred residences that did not pass the data claimed by Afers Socials. At the beginning of the pandemic there was no protocol that you committed to Health to intervene in the residences. Instructions or recommendations, not even orders, that do not reach all the residents of Catalonia. Some are public and contradictory: family members can take their residents, first with a Covid proof, then without a Covid proof... Family members without information on the part of the residents or on the part of the Generality of which was the state of salvation of their residents. Disinformation, disconcert. And yet today there are plataforms of family members who ask to meet with the Government of the Government of Catalonia and are waiting. Assemblies and residential centers paying for disinfection of their butxaca, because the council had returned them, via electronic mail, that they could not be charged with the expense– Lleida, without going further, that governs Republican Esquerra – and, moreover, posing problems for the intervention of the UEM when precisely this intervention was more important than ever. The prosecution has opened civil and criminal proceedings to more than a hundred Catalan residents, whether because of negligence or lack of government directives. During this pandemic it was easier to attend a hospital if you had symptoms at home than if you had them at home. When the ICUs' emergencies were not in a collapsing situation, the hardest residents in the hospital were still unscathed. Some of them were derivatives, and the counselor told us that there were 1,800 derivatives that were made at the hospital. But it's that we have 46,000 positive tests or suspicious cases. Residents, in our view, have been seen as second-guessed citizens in this crisis. Did they really think it didn't fit in with an investigation commission or a monogram ple, like at least, to talk about it? Is it true that with these data we have to believe...? For example, Mr. Sabrià this morning, Republican Left, who told us that we used this theme to wear down the government. Is it not powerful enough, this subject, to be dealt with in the Parliament of Catalonia? Look, I don't think the opposition wears out the government: the government is worn out all alone – all alone. It's broken and it's exhausted, as President Torra said; a fact that has been noticed by what he does to the management of the residences. New April – it's been a few days, huh? – the same day that President Torra took the decision to transfer the skills of Afers Socials to Salut – a decision, certainly, uncertain, but very late – Councillor El Homrani told us in parliamentary committee that he had decided it before him. What are we staying at? Oh, come on, have they tried to talk to you a little bit more? Or to the war of the coronavirus we must also add to the political war between the two governing partners? We hope that the transfer of skills will be temporary. That is to say, with this shift of skills, the communication with residential centres has improved; the primary CAPs are more present at the centres, and the material is better up there. It's true that we're in a different situation from the original, but I also want to make him see that he didn't make a change of skills if the two departments worked together from the beginning, as he did in other autonomous communities. We do not want the residences to be either clinics or hotels, even if it can accentuate healthcare intervention, because this is a health crisis. And we'll need to talk about model, yes, as we've been talking about years, years and years, in this House of the residential model, and the government hasn't listened to anything at all; there hasn't been any substantial change from the point of view of the residential model. Do you know how many thousands of professionals have caused casualties to take care of our great people? In most cases, just over €940 gross per month. You, Juntes per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, authors and accomplices of perpetuating the retail in Catalonia, have not reversed this situation, nor so alone in the assumptions recently approved. They don't have a problem giving 43,000 euros to private toilets for patients attending Covid, but the residency modules, the precarious ones, the creation of nine residential places..., here are all problems. And this was signed for Esquerra Republicana, accompanied by the entire Catalan right. Meny applause, less public recognition by all of us and more labor rights, better sou, increase in rates, increase in residential places already. That someone proposed a greater collaboration between the social and health system, that I remember that for the same job in the public sector they cover about four hundred euros more than the concerted, which is 80_percent of the Catalan residential sector. Frankly, we consider that there are more reasons than enough to gather this investigation commission and the future monogram ple. The relatives, the affected, those who have lost their lives, the professionals who are giving everything, deserve the Parliament to speak as many times as necessary about what is going on. The residencies are not in a post-Covid phase; the coronavirus is still installed in many of them, and since the policy we discuss and agree solutions to try not to fall into the same mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.228.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.229.0	Good afternoon. It does two_months that we give them the same on this subject, and I think it is important to repeat certain messages in politics, and especially on such delicate issues as this: no government was prepared for this health crisis, but the feeling is that, as for prevention and addressing the incisiveness of the Covid-19's impact on residents, this government went especially late and poorly. And dol. Dol, because the residencies were clear that they were a land subscribed to suffer a heavy impact of this virus, not only because all their population is at greatest risk for health impacts, but because they are needed to come weak; rain on the mule. They are debilitated, retaliated and very diffuse control and governance services. You serve who have suffered the retailing of the People's Party to the State governments in dependency policies, the retailing of the convergent governments, the non-reverseness of these retailings during the five years they already carry governing it or managing it from the Republican Left, and one of the most commercial public services we have, with which it entails a reduction in quality and precariousness in the working conditions of the people who work, mostly women. And so are they. It was the weakest trunk for a virus like this, and unfortunately, it had to live with a lot of hard, it had to live with a lot of hard, 64,000 people living there, their families and 75,000 people working there, in residences, mainly women. According to the figures of the impact of last night's Covid, almost four thousand dead, dead people in residences, more than thirty thousand infected confirmed. The subject, I insist, was not simple people, but it was very difficult to deal with it as a calibre. And that, in a pandemic health crisis, has consequences. On March 12, the civic centres, some day centres, were closed, and family visits to the residences were already restricted. March 14th decreed the state of alarm. But until March 30, protection materials were not distributed to the staff of these services. I, when there were EPIs, the guidelines that were given by the government were only to be used when there were suspicious or confirmed cases. Therefore, for one month the virus was entering the residences through the people working there. The government, moreover, has been missing for many days: until April 1st, Mr.Cesc Iglesies did not appear; the councillor, the day after. But, above all, disappeared in the attention to which he was passing, because it is not that nobody is nestigating himself. The gatherings were already chasing them for weeks, demanding help, because they had direct information – much more information than you as the government – than what was going on. The managers of the same residences were demanding more robust measures. The parliamentary groups did it weeks ago that we were saying: "This has to be taken in another way. We need to medicalize the residences. There's got to be more compulsion. Resources for disinfection were not activated for several weeks, neither the UME nor the Generality Bombers. Listen, it's not like we have a "likeness to the U.S.A.," it's like there was no disinfectant! , no general government companies or firefighters. "As at least, using the UME, was what we were telling them, that the UME was available to be able to disinfect. By the way, they started using them. The question was that someone was disinfected. Why didn't he take control of the residences? , of many residences. We were, when we took control of Salut, with a few-tenths of non-information-gathering residences. We didn't know what was going on in a thousand residences in Catalonia! Finally, April 8th, Greetings does not assume the competence; we were asking for it from many sectors. It was a health emergency, and it was a call for Salut to take over the kingdoms of the situation. A few days later, a specific action plan for the sector is in short supply. A_me late. Families, and now workers and directors have also filed complaints with the prosecution. Therefore, the issue is under investigation in the prosecution, a few cases, many cases. But the issue has a political dimension. What kind of mismanagement has there been? Why? What lessons do we have to extreme 'n not to repeat mistakes? And that's why we're defending that we also need a committee of inquiry from Parliament about what happened to the residents in the Covid crisis. One of the lessons to be learned, of course, is that we need to make changes in the model of the care system for large people and dependence. Today we want to take advantage of this debate to point out proposals and to point out changes to make. We already pointed out in the Ple passed with an oral question to Councilman Chakir the Homrani. Also, during various moments of the plenary, we have had discussions, we have not pointed out any. We want to insist, we believe that this is what we need to learn from lessons: proposals for a solution, proposals for the future, proposals for a model change. For example, five minimum proposals. It is necessary to maintain health care for the large people in the hands of the primary care after this crisis. Can't go back to the previous model, from outsourcing to private providers. It's going to be more fiscal, beyond the €47_million we agreed with the government, under the 2020 assumptions, to increase tariffs for the large people and the disability sector. Certainly, I hope, counsel, Vice-President, that these EUR 47_million are already incorporated into the increase in tariffs for this year in the 2020 budget. And good control will be needed because these resources are translated into better quality of service and working conditions of the staff. A viability assessment of the most affected residents, such as those in which they had to intervene, will be needed. And we propose that they be incorporated into the public network. Keep them in public hands. Almenys, as I said, those who are already having an intervention. It will be necessary to demerchantise the sector, and for this reason we need a law of social concertation, urgently. Approve it with the government and bring it to Parliament. It is the way we have in a sector like this in which it cannot be all direct management, it is impossible immediately, in which we can ensure that everyone who manages this sector does so with the criteria of public management and does not negotiate it. It will be necessary to strengthen the investment in home care services to ensure a better service: better working conditions, the incorporation of specialized support profiles in complex cases, and to make it easier for one service to move to another in order to prevent anyone who wants to and can do so from entering a residence but who may or may not leave, who in some cases is obliged to do nothing more than enter a residence. Proposals for minimum, for the time being, that we want them to be present. Whether or not we accept the statements which, in fact, do not accept, which have been made by Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya, we want to talk about the model in this committee. And we will love to make many more proposals in this regard. The other great lesson of this committee, I believe, is that the dignity of caring people and of citizens are two people with the same coin. You've had to consume a tragedy like this because everybody, or a majority, you see. And, therefore, it is not possible to hold, in the conditions that have been held during the later years, the tasks of the cure; overall, and specifically, in the residences. It is a worthy work that must have conditions of dignity in order to guarantee the dignity of the citizens. We will work to bring together many more conclusions and lessons from this tragedy in this investigation commission, to put the light on what has happened, and to do justice and repair to the people who have suffered this pandemic with the most severity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.230.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.231.0	Isabel's mother, the Nuria's avia, the Ivan's father, the Robert's father, the Brahim's avia... We wouldn't stop saying names of companies, friends, friends, family members who left us in this crisis of the Covid-19; they're not numbers, they're empty, and that's all we have. And he's been patient, too. He was patient with the people who left us, but also with the people who remained, who saw his loved ones leaving. We think that many times we're not curious enough when we talk about love. And we want, before we finish our intervention, to apologize if it's necessary. It is very difficult, obviously, in a parliament, to talk about what the loss of human life means. That's why I'm so sorry. But we want to make up for it, as at least, with the will to have a comprehensive political action to defend what is worthy life. That all the suffering that Catalans and Catalans have suffered after two months is reversed and overcome with a political centrality that is worthy of life. That we see how we transform the reality we have and how we give tranquillity, in the later years of life, to those great people, those people who have given everything to us, and who have not repeated what we have experienced in the later two months. Especially this. Above all, this effect of seeing so many people die, and this suffering, in a socialized way, that we could say that it has reached all of us. Another thing is how things are seen, but the patience is obvious that it has reached us all and all. And if we're talking about decent living we also want to remember and thank the workers and the workers of the residences of great people. We believe that we are not yet sufficiently grateful and recognizable of what they have brought on a daily basis. From what they already brought before the crisis, but also from what they have brought in this crisis. How hard and complex his work is, and how hard and complex he has turned into these two_months later. Therefore, too, for them and for them, to fight for a dignified life. A life worthy as its own that, at least, from the point of view of material, economic, is also our responsibility and we can guarantee it. We thought that it was necessary to start this intervention with a purely human identification exercise; but, in the analytical sense, we talked about not being purely human. We wanted to take refuge from the gifres, but we do not want to forget, obviously, that we are talking, today, approximately 3,500 people died in the residences of great people in our country. We don't think it's a question of clumsiness or chance. We don't want to be relativistic, that's what we want to say. And we also want to show how there are elements that, when the pandemic hit, have turned it all into a catastrophe. We, as a parliamentary subgroup, want to move our analysis forward. We already had elements, and what it means, obviously, the pandemic, that we do not question that no one was prepared for this, but we can give another type of response, obviously, has led to the col·lapse. Besides, we're not asking, not even alone, that we've had col·lapse. And this was donated, too, for four great prior elements. The first is the condition of the workers in the sector. If that sector stood before the crisis of the Covid-19 it was for the great effort of this collection so precarious. We are talking about workers who can charge the majority 997_gross euros, 800_net euros, approximately. Party days, part-time contracts, workload over which the technical criteria set, and lack of staff that still causes them more work. But the professionalism of the workers in this sector does not cover neither the ill practices of some companies, big companies, curiously, in the name of a quantitative point of view, but they have no problem in reusing bowls, distribution of cold feet, do not guarantee, neither alone, adequate healthcare. These conditions were previous to the coronavirus and have been denounced and explained in this Parliament over the past few years by associations of family members as well as by trade union organizations. We also want to share another reflection, and that is not in the form of a toilet, but look, we were voting assumptions and when there is a point here that allows the award of a public service to have a salary topall of 1,259 euros, most Members of this Parliament decided that this was not a reality. This has been reflected in a good part of the workers and workers of the residents of the great people and we have guaranteed them their wages, so we are not going to blame only the union organizations and the employers' organizations. According to the item: the bet for a model where the residence is private management, and the private ones, with payment of places for the Administration, have been the majority, they are the majority, and not for a public management. In recent years there has been no government, and we must say so, that it has made a bet for a clear public network, of public ownership and management. There was a bet for a model of privates with concert and convenient, and the payment of the economic benefit linked to the service for some privates as a form of financing. And with this reality, the funds for reversal have obviously arrived. And the inversion funds only come to one thing: to win quietly. And with this reality, coming here to win quietly, it could mean, or grind more still, the working conditions or donate an evil service. And many times what it has meant have been two things. Third element: economic under-doing by the Administration. To the Labour Commission, when we were dealing with assumptions, they came to see the employers and the two major unions of the hand, and they said to us: "With the Project of assumptions, this col·lapses. We're talking about the Covid-19, but only five months ago, they already told us. We will not forget that we do not believe in a private management system, but neither are we relativistic when it comes to how the private management is economically gifted, and therefore, we want to recognize that with the talent that there was of the residents of great people, one of two, most of those who manage or "squeeze, scan the workers and the workers, or do so with the service. I, fourth element, lack of sufficient inspections or the way to inspect. That someone will answer us how many inspectors and inspectors there are to give control. How many? And that someone will answer us if these inspectors and inspectors, who are very small, before they go to the residences do not trick by phone and advance the day they go there. We think that, obviously, this is not a formula for inspecting public services. And with these four great conditions, which were already predetermine before the Covid-19 pandemic, that there was a potential collapsing if it was a health crisis that we experienced. Certainly, what we're voting on today is not a study commission, it's an investigation commission, and as the investigation commission, we need to see what elements determine the model. This is already included and has affected the crisis after two months, but also those who have been politically, administratively and privately owned decisions that have further deepened the crisis, or, on the contrary, that have avoided this deepening. We want to see the two realities, not just one. It is before this context that it is necessary to know of objective facts, but also that this highest institution of the country, the Parliament of Catalonia, does an investigation exercise on what it must allow us to avoid that the col·lapse of the residents of great people is repeated. This should be the great end and the great goal, which is never repeated. To the band to discuss the model and to the band to build a great public model, of public management, of residences of the great people. And to the title enunciation, one of the questions that we will have to solve in the investigation, and we will pass on a question previous of which we will have to solve. We think that if we now put the question in this House, in the plenary room, the Members and the Members, the answers are very different. Should we know if someone at the Department of Work paralyzed him from buying personal protective equipment? You should know. We need to know, too, whether the Spanish Government was responsible for buying these personal protective equipment and whether it set a date, and whether it did so? We will also need to know – and explain to Catalans and Catalans – why is healthcare services for large people's residents managed, not through the public health system? We'll also need to know why there were some private businesses that wanted to do a push first with the Department of Work, and if that happened, and then with the Department of Health? But also if there have been some companies that have failed to comply with their obligations and even some that have wanted to disappear from their responsibilities, or even if there have been those who have given orders to hold them back. All of this, in which we would not be sitting here right now in agreement to settle in the same way, is what must be the object of this commission. And that no one is wrong: we, the CUP, do not move our revenge. What moves us is a goal of social justice. The attribution of criminal responsibility is not the object of an investigation commission, this is the courts. What we need to answer here, obviously, is to see the elements that have caused this health crisis. That's right, we also want to say something else. It will never shake our pulse so we can know the objective facts and the actual facts. But, obviously, what's on our mind is respect for the people who have left us and the people, or their esteemed people who are still patenting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.232.0	Congressman... thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.233.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors; deputies, deputies, I will repeat some figures that are the ones that were offered to us by the Department of Salvation yesterday, right? 3,913 people great deaths in residences, 13,220 people great with Covid confirmed, 36,186 cases of residents with suspicion..., with symptoms and, therefore, with Covid's suspicion. Today, more than 2,900 professionals living in the neighbourhood, some days ago, there were 6,000, the professionals who were in the neighbourhood. It's that, escort me, they can't be impassable before this scale. Rereading documentation and preparing for this intervention, he read an intervention by the President's Counsellor, who accompanied us in this debate, a few days ago, said: "If with independence we have declared total confinement fifteen days before... Magnificent, this was very good for me, because precisely one of the important facts in relation to residences is dated March 6, which is between this margin of fifteen days in which you have declared total confinement. Yes, because he declared the 14th, the confinement; fifteen days, before... March 6th enters between this period. And the note says, the headline says: « Salut and Afers Socials recommend not visiting residences if there is fever or has been in risk zones for coronavirus. This headline, to me, suggested two questions, one positive and one negative. The positive... [[Widow's remorse.]] If you'll allow me, I'll follow up with my arguments, won't I? The positive: Salut i Afers Socials, together, act. Say, well, that's good news – that's good news – they're coordinated and act together. Tell me naive, but this is the first thing I thought about when I saw this note. And the second, which worried me the most, and some of you know it, because they felt me bitterly complaining to the Palau de la Generalitat before the president of the Generalitat when I told them: "They can't issue recommendations; what they have to do is make decisions. Because we recommend them what they mean, which is what that note meant, is that each of the residences made decisions, more or less interpretable or reinterpretable, without the support of the Health Administration and without the support of the Department of Social Affairs, because they only issue a recommendation. And that recommendation caused discomfort among the residents, it caused discomfort among the family members, because each residential center took the decisions that it considered opportune in view that the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs only made a recommendation. After this indecision, various circumstances were projected during the following weeks, some who are also generic in other areas, such as obviously that of salvation, but especially difficult in establishments with people at risk such as the large people and the people who are in residence. Absence of tests that allow for appropriate winging measures, and, today on our coast, still believe that there may be such a large number of people suspected of having the virus. We shouldn't be at this time of night, there shouldn't be a place for the suspect; it's to say, if there's a suspect, there's tests, it's the test, and it's whether or not you have the virus. But keeping these doubts is still bad news. The lack of protective equipment, both for the professionals and for the residents, in a lost market, certainly, the ministry did not complete the expectations of supplying material; neither did the Generality and neither could the owners of the centers, because the market was wasted and the prices were disorbited, if there were protective materials. Lack of information, absence of performance criteria, absence of protocols, discordant protocols... Prohibition of military access to disinfection, and someone today was telling us again, this morning, it seems to me that it was Mrs. Spigares, isn't it? "We need health care, not military. So, before a crisis like this, we need medical and military and moving and firemen and dependent and transporters, we need them all, because we are all few – all of us are few – to address a crisis of the characteristics that we have experienced. And rejecting second-guessing is a hard irresponsibility, not to say, with more greasy words. We are aware that in the first weeks of residential centers it is forbidden to fessinate from malalts to hospitals. That's very hard. It is forbidden to fessinate from malalts to hospitals. We also find it very difficult – and we will not tire of repeating it – the limitation of therapeutic effort to seniors of seventy-five years dictated by the Health System of Catalonia Medical Emergencies. What message are we giving to society? Therapeutic stress limitation depending on age. The limitation of the therapeutic effort must be made according to the clinical, global, not age: persons older than seventy-five years. Afterward, permission to residents to reside with their family members, first with a test, then without a test. Listen, it's another irresponsibility to authorize people..., if the test is done, magnificent, but, if the test is not done and, therefore, it is not known whether they are infected or not, send them with a family that, since they have not taken the test, it is not known whether they are infected or not and, therefore, they can spread the great person. I'm sorry, I don't think it's at all a coherent performance, a sensible performance, a meditated performance. For – for – a lot by; among the professionals, among the residents, among the family members. Justified: by. And now the pandemic is more or less back, but the likelihood of rebounds is quite certain, it's not just a hypothesis, it's quite certain. And we need to be able to determine what and why it went wrong. And if it's responsible – and if it's responsible. And we, unlike other doormen with whom we have co-signed this petition for a commission of inquiry, disagree with all those doormen who have come here today to read their conclusions. We, the conclusions, do not hold them. That's why we're asking the board of inquiry. But we need to know how to correct, we need to try to prevent it from repeating, never again, a disaster like this. What is it that we need to have one of the highest life expectancy in the world, if those who arrive at the fourth age condemn them to the stone age? Do they really still have any doubts about the need for a commission of inquiry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, now has a turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mrs Marta Vilalta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.235.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today, you are presenting us with a motion for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry into the management of the residents of the great people. We're there! We're here today to talk to you. So we're-there, then. To talk about it and try to enable this mechanism that allows us to talk about our own days and weeks. We are in favour of analyzing and investigating what you need, always, above all that can be positive for the country, with the will of constant improvement. In fact, we believe that Parliament must be precisely that, useful for the citizenry, and that our work must be able to revert to positive actions for the people, to change everything that does not work, and, above all, to constantly transform reality. That's how we understand Republican Left. The current situation, the situation that we are currently living in is an extremely complex situation, in general: a global pandemic that has upset us, has captivated our lives. A crisis that is health care, but that is also economic and that is also social. A virus that, unfortunately, has taken too many lives, but which has especially affected large people. In Catalonia, of the total number of people killed as a result of the Covid-19, 88_percent are people over seventy years old, and 67_percent are over eighty years old. And as it affects people of major age, therefore, it has had a great impact on residences. And that's not just an issue in Catalonia, it's a situation that's affecting the whole world. According to WHO, half of the deaths that have occurred in Europe by coronavirus live in a residence of large people. In Catalonia, of residences, we have a thousand, we see 64,000 great people. The middle age of these residents is eighty-four years, and most – as we know – have premeditated diseases, or many are dependent or large dependent. Therefore, what we have found is that the residents live the most vulnerable, the most fragile and the most at risk before this pandemic. There have been – the other spokespersons have already said – more than 13,000 people who have been confirmed as positive for coronaviruses and, of these, 3,609 have died until yesterday, with data from yesterday, which represents that 30_percent of the total deaths in Catalonia have occurred in residences. And actually, they're not data, they're people, they're names, they're families, they're people, they're people, they're families, they're people, they're people, they're people, they're people, they're families, they're people, they're people, they're people, they're people, they're people, they're That's why we think it's so important that we can start debating today and on our own days. This is the situation, this is the X-ray. He said, however, that we are here to talk about it, to analyze it and to lay the foundations to investigate what you need and also to dignify and humanize everything that is possible. We're there! That's what we give them, from the Republican Left: so-so! We're talking about residences and the management of our country. From the outset, I think that if we don't talk, it's imperative to explain that the protection of people who are in residence has been a priority for this government from the very first moment. Here were the decisions made the first week of March before other territories and before, even before, the state of alarm, and which have been key, these decisions, precisely, to try to contain the impact at the residential centers. Decisions like closing the day centers, like not making any new inputs, like limiting and restricting visits. Dei... some doorman said they'd been missing. So, from the first moment, from the minute u, from the first day, that has already activated the Health and Social Action Action Plan to coordinate care and health care to coordinate. A coordination that, of course, has intensified with the competition change to continue to provide the best of protections – and allow me to thank the Government, especially the Councillor of Health and the Councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families. From here, material has been provided: more than 6 million professional protection elements. A bag of professionals with more than 4,600 reinforcements was provided for residential centres; a huge thank you for all of them. More than seventy thousand PCR tests have been carried out on residents and working people. The cleanness and disinfection of the residences that have needed it, have enabled more than a thousand new residential places and up to 1,857 people have moved to our space or have relocated to other residences to improve their attention. The 754 have returned to their family home. There have been drawings of inspections and social afers and salutation, they have intervened twelve residences that were not facing the crisis as it touched. All this, moreover, has helped that 5,218 residents are already recovered from the disease. I used to say, "We're there! Let's talk to each other, and let's talk about everything. We are talking about residences, yes, but we are also talking about everything that we think needs to be talked about, such as the historical debt of the State in relation to the area of dependence, a failure of the Spanish State, which should bring 50_percent of the resources of the financing of the Law of Care to dependent people and which only contributes 20_percent and, therefore, 80_percent to cover the Generality. Or if we want to talk about residences and management during the coronavirus, we also talk about how it affected the decision of the only command of the Spanish State to centralize the purchase and distribution of material to the inside of the pandemic: a big mistake. A big mistake because it delayed the arrival of this material and because it broke the chain of sub-administration, which caused a few essential days to be lost. Mrs. Ribas said there was a lapse of time when there was no material. Well, here's the answer. There was a decision that was a big mistake. And we're talking about all this, because if we were able to get material at those times it was precisely because the Government of the Generality skipped the prohibition of the Government of the State and went to look for the material where it was, enabling a direct purchase – and don't say no, Mr. Moreno, because it's true – skipping the prohibition and going to buy from Xina directly the material that was then distributed to the residents and professionals of our country. If you want to talk about the residences of the great people in our country, we also talk about the heritage that has led us to the structural situation of the residential system that we have. Because we need to talk, too, about this. A highly private and atomized performance system, without a very powerful public anchor. We are talking about that, unlike health or education, the social sphere is not this pillar that should be of the welfare state, it does not have a solid public base. Or we're talking about how the inversion funds have gambled for the residences to do business. And that's happening. And it's about talking to us, and we want to talk about it more than ever in order to change this situation. And even more, if they want to talk about the residences of the great people, we also talk about the norms of which we possess them. He was talking about concertation before, too. Okay. But we're also talking about how, in this Parliament, all opposition groups dropped a law – the law of service contracts to people – the named Aragonese law, which could have served, would have been a good tool to give priority to quality over price. And it would have made primary criteria such as proximity, sustainability, or environmental criteria. Or it would be useful to better control the performance of the services and to be able to conduct periodic audits or inspections among others. We're talking about this, too. From how we have prevented us from having some tools that we could have put in the service of our country. And we also think we need to be able to talk about the model and the future, because what can be more useful now is thinking about the model of care for the great people. A model that we want to pass, for a band, for the reinforcement of the public system, that we have seen as, at times of critical situations like the present, which has responded – who has had to respond and who has responded – it is precisely the Administration and the governments. And, on the other hand, we also want this model to take steps to promote autonomy and deinstitutionalisation. More investment in home service. A model that can recognize the pocket of the professionals of the residential services, with some working, social and wage conditions at the height of the job. And let me thank the immense work they've been doing all these days. Indeed, we have a great debt here all folds and all. We're hoping we can talk about all this and more. And that's why we've presented some items trying to double the bet. We have submitted some papers because we want to be able to talk about where we came from, which factors may have affected more, compare us to the rest of the territories and states, investigate how decisions have influenced also under the wake of the state of alarm. And we wanted to be able to talk as well and look forward, directing the debate towards the future and can try to lay the foundations of the new model that we have to try to build. We want to give all the explanations, we want to delve into the debate. We want to be the most transparent and we always act with responsibility and co-responsibility, which, of course, we have not found in opposition groups. And don't be cynical, please, Mr. Moreno, because we're questioning the time of an emergency investigation committee. When we still have an emergency situation in our country, you're already here demanding that we do an investigation commission. We don't question the commission of inquiry, we don't question the commission of inquiry. And they're not wrong; they're not wrong, because in Republican Left we've voted against the state of alarm because they used it to re-centralize, militarize, restrict rights, and because the social and economic measures that the Government of the Spanish State is making are totally inadequate. Insufficient to help people. And before the will to compromise them or to be able to, we, try to make it more useful for the citizenry, you have chosen the most barbaric pact, which has been Citizens. We want to be able to talk about everything, and before the negative... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of the PP and of Ciutadans, above all, to accept our reviews – I finish, president –, so we wanted to be able to make much more useful this commission of inquiry. In any case, I repeat, we today will vote in favour of creating this committee of inquiry – I finish – by conviction, by compromise, obviously, by coherence, and by responsibility, to be useful to the citizenry and that we will never be able to bear, to see, a situation like these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.236.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Josep Maria Forné. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.237.0	Mr President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members and Deputies; House staff, who also think it is worthwhile to thank you and remind you of your commitment at this time, too..., have given themselves data and believe that the data are already quite laundering. I would just like to recall two generically, that of the malfunctions that have caused the pandemic at this time, one_third, approximately, are produced in the residencies, and that of these sixty_th thousand, approximately, residents that are currently in Catalonia, some thirty_th thousand have been infected or are infected and, therefore, are names that cannot leave us indifferent or can leave us without any political response. And it wouldn't be just what happens... to give an answer to that explanation. What happens is that some of the questions and some of the answers to why this happened here, somehow, they already predispose a certain, let's say, political direction. We would like to say that there is no single cause, that there are multiple causes. It is a situation with a multiple factoriality and that each, logically, highlights those that, with their political positioning, therefore, is most convenient, isn't it? I would like to highlight some of the causes of why, perhaps, this has happened. One, the reality of people residing in the residences. Then I'll make a statement, because all this time we've been talking about the residents of the great people, but we remember that there are residents of disabilities, there are residents of mental health and there are residences of children and young people, huh? , i, therefore... And in this sense we must also give answers to these areas, or to these... ; but well, let's go to the residences of the great people, who I think are the numbers in which we are. One of the first causes that could explain why this happened is the profile of the resident, as it changed only in fifteen years. Surely this is one of the questions that we should ask ourselves, so we have not given an answer to this change, but approximately one third, fifteen years ago, of people with a higher degree of dependence, this is now two thirds. This reality has changed as long as the residents have a user profile, have a more vulnerable and sensitive profile in a situation like that. The second cause we would like to highlight is that the pandemic has been an exceptional fact – exceptional, complicated, complex, hard-on – and it is a fact that we can hardly predict, and the answer, in some way, overflows us all. That doesn't mean we don't have..., we've had the agility and flexibility to give a deeper answer, but this exceptionality seems to me to be worth giving. We're not a singular fact. It is true that the Committee of Inquiry has to address what has happened in Catalonia, and that is where we have to look and that is where we have to tackle things, but it is not an exceptional fact of Catalonia but it is a general fact of the whole Western world, and therefore it is a problem, recognized even for the same WHO, which is produced in similar circumstances. Surely the user profile that has changed – which looked like the first cause – has to be seen to explain this globalization of this phenomenon. Then, another cause that could explain this fact of the so high number of people who have died in the residents of this pandemic, in proportion to the people affected, is – and here it came out, what happens is that each one of them hides a little where it got better, right? – the issue of finance; it's one of the pillars, it's the pillar, surely, of the state of less well-being strengthened, with less muscle and less economic resources. And in this underfunding, I'm sure there have also been various causes, huh? I'm sure there are also various causes. The primacy of the price over the quality, for example, that has occurred in those years of crisis in awards has to see, but also a lot – and a lot has to see – the subject of the Law of Dependence and its poor financing and application. It has already been said that that law was already born with many questions, but it was born with the compromise of a 50_percent of financing by the State and a 50_percent by the Generality, and this did not occur in the years, at a time when the degrees of dependence have increased and, therefore, the need. Importance of proximity in decision-making and listening to the views of proximity in this decision-making, which has been difficult with the state of alarm and the way it has been applied, surely there is also to be seen. And we could find many more causes, of which I do not want to exempt or to exempt everything that is better and that should have done better, doubtless, since the management of the political leaders of the Generality and the departments in this crisis. But these reasons cannot be forgotten either generally. Now, for all this, it's imperative for us to see the fact that there's a commission of inquiry that you're trying to save him. What we have already said since the time when this commission of inquiry was presented, the institution of this commission, that we would vote for it as Junts for Catalonia, but it is also true that we would have liked to have accepted our papers. And here I think there's a group that's clearly explained it, that didn't want to admit it. So, for what the other groups have said, they could have been admitted and wanted to incorporate them into this, which is the treatment of the model. They can't turn it off. I think you've all been dealing with a question that's essential, that's to say, we can't do an investigation that doesn't want to prevent this from happening again. And, therefore, a commission of inquiry that does not want to incorporate these considerations must also have – also must have, also must have – a political intention at the back. And I want to thank those you've facilitated..., and especially Deputy Vidal Aragonese, for all the efforts to try and make this possible. And I understand that the other groups have tried, and you wanted that to be possible. It was only by adding a proposal for a model to the committee of inquiry. And, as it is also a matter of looking forward, in this model proposal, we would like to point out – briefly, because only two minutes remain – in this model proposal, two coordinates; in fact, the two coordinates are the ones to draw the mark on which we would like to learn a lesson. There have been many questions that already indicate some of the things that have happened. Who are these two coordinates that we think are essential in the model that would please us? Because surely there will be more than one model, but at least there will be one that will end up imposing. The first of these coordinates is that the residents must inevitably have greater health care and must have a health care that does not follow there..., a complement of the residence, but must have as a basic element of the residential care health care, health care. This is clearly taking into account what has happened, and taking into account the portrait. Now, this major health care doesn't mean that you're going to have to rely on or dispose of residences as a potential of the welfare state, as a potential of social action, no matter what. This can be corrected, and this coordination of major health care should be corrected, with something that some of you have also gone through, and that is the equipment, the progressive equalization of wages and the working conditions that exist in the residencies in relation to the health world. That's one of the elements. The second is a possible healthcare fee in the area of residences. And the second co-ordinate that we want is that the residences don't cease to be life-giving and, therefore, they don't cease to be centers in which we serve our lives on that last stretch of those people who are going to spend that moment of their life. I've got very little left. I'd just like to finish. I had the opportunity through my stay in Benestar to know many residences and to aggravate, in truth, to all those Annes, Benjamins – and let me assume four or five names, to distribute them to all – the Neus, the Edwards, the Sheiles, the Agnes, the Maites, the Joseps and so many workers, responsible for the residences left behind by the skin. And to accompany all the relatives who have lost their lives, have lost some of their loved ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.238.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, after the interventions of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, there is a turn to stand up to the points that, in this case, Mr Vidal Aragonese will make. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.239.0	Thank you very much. To explain the collective position on the papers, perhaps outside bo, also, we could see some questions of the initial text of the resolution proposal. And when we go to what is the essence of what he is proposing, we first need to see what his field of action is. And as in the field of action, the literal second: "The Board of Inquiry has as its object and scope the analysis and investigation of the forms of management of the residences. And the basic content of the work plan, as in the first subpart, is said: "Description and documentation of the different forms of management. Let's face it, more than anything else in relation to the Covid-19 crisis, because it's not possible to analyze the concreteness of these things if we don't talk about the model. And, therefore, it is possible to assume, for the two groups that have submitted reviews, that this was already included. If the papers have not been admitted, we have to move that it has been for one theme, on the one hand, of background and, on the other, of form. For what he does to the fund, because, in the first place, he gave the feeling, in some of the papers, that what he wanted was to focus on the concrete issue of management. And of the writing that there was, therefore, the feeling that gave us to the groups that had been proposing was this. The second, because going to look at the reality of Europe and the Spanish State did not seem to be the object of what we wanted to investigate. And that's what's on one of the papers, too. And the third, because, from the content, it could be derived in a commission that is not of investigation, but of study. And, therefore, this has been the material element for which the papers have not been accepted. And then, too, we have to explain this – that's what it is also about, to explain things as they have been – for a formal theme. Five different groups proposing, with different sensitivities, with different visions, that had to agree on each of the items, and this is completely complicated. We also want to clarify a question about the times. We wanted this to be done in this legislature, but at times, too, with a thought of what is the usual recourse of an investigative commission. And, therefore, we will certainly have the proper month, the June, the constitution; in July, he discussed it with regard to appearances and voting, and the third week of September we will begin. If we did not propose it now, then what is not a guarantee is that we can hold it in this legislature. We want, yes, to thank the contributions that have been made through the papers for the leading groups. And, above all, that I could serve us to resolve what this late was a discussion: those objective elements on which we still do not agree and which must serve us, as at least, to seek answers and to seek solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-05-21-5201.240.0	Thank you, Congressman. Call it a vote. As you know, after this debate, we will proceed to the votes of all points of the order of the day that have been debated this late. [[Decree of 12/2020, of 10 April, on which presuppositional measures are taken, in relation to the Comprehensive Health System for Public Use of Catalonia, in the tax area and in the structure of the Administration of the Generality, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00037/12]] First of all, we would vote on the eighth item on the agenda, namely, the validation of Decree No. 12/2020, of April 10, for which presuppositionary measures are taken, in relation to the Comprehensive Health System of Public Use of Catalonia, in the tax area and in the structure of the Administration of the Generality, in order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19. Let's proceed to the vote on the validation of this decree. The vote begins. This Decree Law, on 12/2020, has been validated by 65 votes in favour, correspondents to 41 face-to-face plus 24 telematics; 29 against, and 40 abstentions. I have to ask the chamber if any group wants to process as the bill of law this decree. Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Decree-Law 13/2020 of 21 April, on which urgent structural and organisational measures are taken, as well as measures in the field of public sector entities of the Administration of the Generality (continuation)]] [[203-00038/12]] So let's move on to the next voting point, which is the point corresponding to the new order of the day, is to say, the validation of Decree 13/2020, of 21 April, for which urgent structural and organizational measures are taken, as well as measures in the field of public sector entities of the Administration of the Generality. The vote begins. The Decree Law 13/2020_has been validated by 65 votes in favour, face-to-face and delegates, in addition to 24 telematics; 4 nos, and 65 abstentions. That is to say, I repeat: 65 votes in favour, 4 against and 65 abstentions. Let us now vote, if any parliamentary group wants to do so, on the draft law of this decree. Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Decree-Law 14/2020 of 28 April, on which measures are taken in relation to the Comprehensive Public Health System of Catalonia, in the tax and social fields, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and the adoption of other urgent measures with the same objective (continuation)]] [[203-00039/12]] So we go directly, as I said, to vote on the following point, which is the wish, and which corresponds to the Decree of 14/2020, of 28 April, for which measures are taken in relation to the Comprehensive Health System of Public Use of Catalonia, in the tax and social sphere, to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and the adoption of other urgent measures with the same objective. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 118 votes in favour, against and 16 abstentions. It's a question of whether any group wants to process it as a bill. Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry on the management of large people's residences (continuation)]] [[252-00025/12]] So let's get to the bottom of the agenda, which is the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into the management of large people's residences. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted, namely 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. There are no points in debating or voting on the agenda. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
