ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the child poverty]] [[302-00243/12]] And we do so on the fifteenth point of the order of the day, that is to say, the motion following the question to the Government on the poor children, presented by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress. To expose her, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.2.0	Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, never so many families had been so quickly impoverished. This is said by the large NGOs working with children, but also by the small entities of the Third Sector, who see how the Covid-19 is having an unprecedented impact on our children. This crisis does not, however, affect all boys and girls alike. Pre-pandemic inequality is determining the consequences. The most affected children and adolescents are those living in single-maritime, migrant, low-level or low-level families. They are the same families that were already suffering from poverty or severe poverty in Catalonia before the pandemic, and have now seen a further deterioration of a situation that was already on the brink. The educational gap has also become greater among children who have problems with access to the Internet or who do not have a computer. A situation that affects 79_per_cent of gypsy families. The gap has also been widened in children with fewer resources, living in rural or poorly communicated areas, those with special needs or some disability. New barriers have been created for the most vulnerable children to access the resources they need to level up or receive the educational support their families cannot provide. Two weeks ago I tried to expose here that the outbreak of the pandemic has not made new problems appear, it is simply sharpening even more those we already had. It is highlighting the consequences of abandoning the most vulnerable child by cutting through essential public policies, which are the ones that guarantee opportunities. With this motion we would like to note some of the most flagrant breaches of the current Government of Catalonia, which are nothing more than a continuation of the breaches and negligence of the governments that have preceded it since Artur Mas. Its inability to make progress in the implementation of the Children's Act, which has been waiting for 10 years for a regulation and a budget allocation. Its inability to increase the percentage of Catalonia's gross domestic product allocated to child and family policies, but also to carry out at least one of the protocols on child malnutrition that have been drafted since, in 2011, the Survey of Living Conditions warned that at least fifty-thousand boys and girls had serious problems with access to food in Catalonia. With this motion, we would also urge the Government to take urgent measures to reverse some of the most devastating cuts in recent years, such as the elimination of high-school dining grants, which have taken away teenagers with fewer resources from lunches at noon. We want every child and adolescent in Catalonia to be guaranteed at least one full meal a day. In both teaching and non-learning periods. On weekdays, but also on weekends and holidays, because one of the most serious deficiencies and with the most consequences for the physical but also psychological development of children is the deprivation of access to food. Boys and girls, but also teenagers, need to eat every day, not only when they go to school. All these things, which seem obvious, which should be a priority in a normal country, are not so in Catalonia, where there is always money for some things, but not for others. We would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the amendments they have tabled. In the case of Catalonia's proposal in Comú Puem, to reform the guaranteed income of citizenship, we have not accepted it because we believe that it needs a debate and a consensus, as it had the guaranteed income of citizenship itself, which should be produced in another context. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party, in order to create a child benefit, we have not accepted it because we believe that at a time like this, at the end of a parliamentary term, we would have to prioritise what is going on, rather than promote new benefits that would take months or years to materialise. With regard to the amendments tabled by the groups of the Government, we have not accepted them because we believe that they are in the same line as always, indefiniteness and inconcretion in the policies of children and families. There is no point in voting again without time limits. Nor does it seem acceptable to us that, instead of creating a benefit to ensure that children and adolescents are guaranteed one meal a day, we should consider the possibility and feasibility of creating one. Look, we're in the middle of a pandemic, with figures of 31 percent child poverty that could reach 36.6 percent by the end of the year. Catalonia will receive, in 2020, 3.225_million_de_euros in transfers from the state to deal with the effects of the Covid-19. The least we can do with that money is to immediately return the dining scholarship to secondary school and guarantee a system – for example, that of currency cards – that ensures that all children and adolescents in Catalonia have at least one full meal a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, and to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.4.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Disappointed was the Day for the Eradication of Poverty, precisely. One more year, a day when the reality of the existence of the poor and the extreme poor has become evident – with data. It is also clear that there has been no significant development with measures to eradicate this reality. And, again, with the justified fear that the situation is overwhelming, and much, with the economic and social crisis that the pandemic is creating and the measures to deal with it. Catalonia was already an unequal country before the pandemic, with much inequality. The distribution of wealth, with much more inequality than many other regions of Europe. The current situation, that of the pandemic, only makes it hard for this island, the real social fracture of our country. In the case of infants, the reality is still harder and crueler. Catalonia was at the cua d'Europe, with child poverty taxes only exceeded for Romania. Two years ago, I myself made an inquiry in this chamber, in this Ple, about the poor child. Just two years ago, October 2018. Then, it was close to a third of the children's population of Catalonia that poor people's disease risk. I was growing up. Then I would suggest that there is nothing to invent in measures to deal with this reality. Effective measures are: performance assurance policy, with lives of direct impact on infants; more assumptions– or, more quickly, more reversal– in childhood policies, and indicators and assessment to ensure that the measures and resources that have been allocated are effective. Because two years ago I told them, with data from the Idescat, that Catalan policies on this issue are very inefficient. Social transfers were only able to reduce the risk of poverty in the smaller population in Catalonia by 15_per_cent. With data from 2018. A cipher that's ridiculous, if we compare it to what happens to other sections of the population. Among people over sixty-five years old social transfers reduce the risk of poverty by 82_per_cent. Only a 15_per_cent, in the case of infants; a 82_per_cent in the case of large people. This means one thing: that it is inverted a little, but, besides, that it is inverted badly, because they do not get to where it touches and where it falls. The policy of eradicating the child poverty in Catalonia is inefficient. In these two years this reality has not changed, there has not changed substantially the existing aids; the other way around. And, therefore, the effects have worsened. If the risk data for child poverty, before the pandemic, or 2018, was 28 and mig percent, Save the Children warns us, with projections, with well-calculated data, that we will probably reach a 35 or 36 percent of child poverty in breu. Therefore, in Catalonia every time there are more poor infants. We fully agree with the statement made by the Member who defends this young man. The poor affects his life of the future, but it affects his life of the present. And, in parallel, the investment in childhood has not increased all that is needed and has not been more effective. Of course, we will approve all the points of this young man, because they put forward proposals in this sense. We would have preferred to have our two points raised along the way. There are two amendments, yes, to the Law on Guaranteed Citizenship Income, which come from the childhood sector and which try to go into this element of going more directly to childhood, to what is most needed, which is to double the amount that is given per child to carrec, in the case of guaranteed citizenship income. Therefore, families who need a guarantee of returns, who have children, more resources per child. And a help, a direct benefit by issue of housing, also to families that receive guaranteed citizenship, because it is the other great focus of the poor. It wasn't possible. I'm done. Two years ago my young lady's defense ended up telling them that "Investing in children and their rights is investing in the society's joint venture, and not doing so is a breach of the Convention on the Rights of Children. It is incomplicable, too, our own laws, those of the Parliament of Catalonia. And even more, it's immoral. I can't say it better today. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a great example of what this legislature has been about: lost time. Two years later – today, with a Socialist Movement; two years ago, with our Movement – let's say the same thing again. Some, like our poor infants, do not have to lose.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the word, to whom I take the opportunity to welcome the Parliament of Catalonia again. Come on in, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.6.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, child poverty is an issue that should concern us all. If there were already many families who before the pandemic had great difficulties, with the health emergency, with the economic and social crisis, that situation had worsened. A global crisis, but also a crisis that we suffer in our country. A crisis we suffer in Spain, but also in our community, in Catalonia. It is more than obvious that the government of Pedro Sánchez, that the socialist government and Podemos are not doing things right. But it is no less true that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia is neither present nor expected. Catalans cannot wait, let alone when we are talking about an issue as important as child poverty. A child poverty that already reaches figures of up to 31_per_cent in our territory. And what has the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia done to help bridge that digital divide that has suffered many families? How could our students continue the course in a telematic way, when in many cases they had no Internet connection, when they did not have a computer available and their families could not afford it? What does the Government intend to do with thousands and thousands of self - employed enterprises, whose workers—parents and mothers—will, at best, increase the lists of ERTs and, at worst, end up on the lists of unemployment? How can working parents who lose their jobs give their children proper education, proper food or decent housing? While the government has money – it has money – for the bad so-called embassies. He's got money for publicity, for propaganda. While the government has money to pay for spokesmen who speak ill of Spain. While we don't take the real priorities of Catalans seriously, there are many families that can't get to the end of the month, but there are also many that can't even start it. It is enough that this government spends money on superfluous things. And now is the time to focus on this terrible health crisis. That not a single child in Catalonia is left without food for a single day. An immediate shock plan is required to work, to combat child malnutrition. With the declaration of the state of alarm, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia had special powers, had greater speed to be able to carry out expenditure and public procurement, but it has not used that capacity that it had to be able to help thousands and thousands of families who in Catalonia needed that help from its Government. They didn't use it. From the People's Party we have tabled an amendment to the proposal, to the Socialist Party motion, because we believe that the Socialist proposal is incomplete. And it's incomplete because no family can stay away from help. No family that needs it can stand aside. Therefore, from the People's Party we have presented a proposal where we request a child benefit in a universal way, for all families, and a complementary aid, in the case of single-parent families, but also for large families, because for the People's Party all families are important, and we are surprised to see how the Socialist Party's proposal – we imagine, by mistake – has forgotten about large families. Catalonia and the rest of Spain need governments that focus on those things that really help people solve problems, to fight this pandemic, this health crisis, this economic crisis and this social crisis at this time of difficulty. However, we do not see any solutions being put on the table from the Government. This group will continue to work to ensure that no child in Catalonia is left without food, to provide solutions to those families who cannot reach the end of the month, and that businesses in Catalonia lift those blinds again and re-employ workers, parents and mothers who today have lost their jobs, and who look at a government that is more in Ithaca, which is more in Waterloo, than to worry about the real problems that we all have. So let us hope that, shortly, there will be a new government at the head of the Generalitat of Catalonia that puts people at the centre of action and not as, unfortunately, we have suffered so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mrs María del Camino Fernández has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. As you all know, and we have dealt with it many times in this institution, Catalonia leads the Spanish ranking in child poverty. In fact, since we have this Government, with Councillor El Homrani at the head of social affairs, child poverty has risen by 3.3 points, reaching 32.8 according to his own data, according to the Idescat. I don't want to imagine the data we will end up with 2020 after the social and economic crisis triggered by the Covid. Managing to alleviate child poverty is a matter of political will. Catalonia will not improve this data with social cuts such as those that this Government has executed in recent years, nor with social laws that have not been deployed. If this Government does not change its priorities and starts putting children at the centre of its social policies, this situation will continue to worsen. If they made the same effort to alleviate child poverty as opening embassies, plugging their own or giving subsidies to their friends, child poverty might not rise every year. On the subject of the motion, we have tabled a number of amendments. The first, in order to recover the activity of the interdepartmental committee responsible for the detection of child malnutrition, because it is still curious how this Government sets in motion a multitude of processist chiringuitos as it abandons and leaves out all those areas that are useful for improving the lives of citizens. On the other hand, we have tabled two amendments to put on the table and to solve one of the biggest problems that families are now facing when they try to reach the end of the month, which is no less than the cost of compulsory masks. The average cost of masks in families is one hundred and fifty euros a month, counting that only one surgery is used per member per day. This means that they often have to resort to masks without homologating because they are cheaper. In other cases, they are engaged in reusing the masks, with the risk that this entails. Masks are one of the effective methods in the fight against the Covid, in addition to being mandatory, but for many families it is an impossible expense to assume, which leads them to have to choose between buying a mask or a bread bar, deciding between eating or protecting themselves. For this reason, as we did in the Congress in June – I repeat, in June, recently unbound – we propose to urge the Government of Spain to lower the VAT on masks, applying the lowest of all, as it is now a product of first necessity. And, on the other hand, we propose to the Government of the Generalitat to create an aid for families in vulnerable situations, with the aim that they can afford economically masks and hydroalcoholic gels, taking into account that a second wave of Covid comes to us. What has the Socialist Party done? We do not accept our amendments, which we are not surprised at, because already in June, when we proposed it, they voted against us, arguing that they could not lower VAT on masks because the European Union did not leave them. Funny, because France, Portugal, Germany did apply the reduced VAT that applies to essential items, something that, I repeat, Citizens have been asking since June. You again lied this week, saying that you were waiting for the European Commission to answer whether or not it was going to fine those countries that had applied reduced VAT, and that, in any case, what they would do was force pharmacies to lower the price of masks. And, oh, surprise. The European Commission has had to go out and deny it, saying that in April 2020 it sent this communiqué. [[the speaker shows the camera a few fulls]] to the Member States in which I made it very clear that I would not sanction countries that lower the VAT on masks during the coronavirus pandemic – a statement I make available to all of you. Shame, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Shame on you. You have been lying to us all these months, and the European Commission has even had to come and deny you. Shame on you. Stop deceiving citizens and lower VAT, because this [[the speaker shows the chamber a mask]] saves lives. And that doesn't seem to matter to you. Nor does it seem that they care to alleviate child poverty, because much talk in this Chamber, but when it comes to scratching their pockets in the Government of Spain they are all excuses and lies. In that they look a lot like the Government of the Generalitat. We will vote in favour of the motion despite the enormous disappointment. Let us remember that children are our future. Let us not let the lack of public policies leave them without their own. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.10.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you. Unfortunately, it is clear that the impact of the pandemic will have consequences for many families in the country. But what you have to try to do is avoid mortgageing the future, and also the present, of all infants. And that's all we'll get with the will to build, not a list full of toilets. We didn't even see that we had a good eye before the poor child. Yes, there is. In our country the poor child is not seen. When you walk down the street, don't bump into her, unlike any other country. But it's there. There are infants who do not have a hot plate on the table, there are infants who do not dress properly for the time of the year in which we are, there are infants who do not have the support necessary to develop their learning. And this, unfortunately, is seen in the world or in the most direct environment, but this does not mean that it has the most basic needs covered. Therefore, I need to cover them. It is the solution to prevent psychological, social and health problems, and therefore also to prevent school failure, and also to prevent social and labour exclusion when this child reaches adulthood. But infants don't pay for the crisis. Fighting the poor child is a lot of work. Because to fight the poor child today is to guarantee a future worthy of tomorrow. And you, as we see in the past few days, have chosen to be in simplicity, because it has been hard for us not to show the willingness to reach agreements or try any compromise. They say they're looking for political centrality, but with this attitude I think they're aspiring to be residual. You also govern. And where they rule, well, it's not like they're doing it either. Because if that were the case, I mean, here, so we could have more resources. During this legislature it has progressed regularly, it has progressed in inversion in childhood. It may not be enough, but it's not just denying it either. During this legislature, it has advanced to guarantee the rights of children. I remember the creation of a comprehensive unit for child care and adolescent victims of sexual abuse. And here, therefore, thank the great task that professionals do in prevention and attention. In recent years, public spending has increased in social policies, and here in childhood policies. Is that enough? No, no, And possibly, and sadly, I never do. But is that a hundred per cent of the government's fault? So I'd say no. You too are ruling and have responsibilities for government in the State. They have the opportunity to lead public social policies to ensure the well-being of children. And it's not that I did it. There's no permission for the father and the mother of confined infants. Therefore, it is still not covered by this low labor for the parents and the seas when they face the confinement of their children. We know that the increase in the level of unemployment and the reduction in the number of jobs involved in this health crisis will increase the risk rate of the poor. And to these homes where there are children, therefore, the poor child will also be affected. The excess to guarantee the services to which an ERT has been subjected and to which they have also been at the time has been too much, but since the Generality has always been in hand at all times to deal with the cop, and many times we have not received a positive response to respect. At times, they tell us that they can't go any further in social policies because they don't come in front of the current situation that we're living and overflowing. And, therefore, you, where you have responsibilities, we do have to hear that you do not get into the management because of the management of the pandemic, but then you come here and you see with your will and with this grandeur of restoring a whole list of toilets and saying that the Government of the Generality is not up, when they do not just self-criticise the functions there where they have responsibilities. In any case, we will never give up putting childhood at the centre of all policies and try to guarantee some better opportunities for all children in the country. We have to move forward, and that's why we need a focus – and many times we have said it – with a mid- and long-term look, without bits. Work it out, above all, from an open perspective. One of the main challenges we have with the country – this is obvious, and here I hope we find all of us – is to abolish the poor child, but today we have to say that with the way in which they have these days since deconstruction, we will not find ourselves there. We are the ones who always try hard at the end of the consensus, the dialog, the agreements. We'll vote some points for them today, that's right, but there's nothing else that can't be there. Simply repeat and make arrangements for us to always find ourselves willing to build, and we regret that today you do not follow. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Maria Forné has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.12.0	Mr President, Mr Councillor, Members and Members, first of all, thank the House for the fact that it obliges us all to reflect and to be able to propose measures to one of the difficult problems that our society has: that of the poor child. Don't recognize it would be a huge mistake. And why is it one of the hard problems? Because the poor child is, in one band, a problem of today – Mrs Marta Ribas mentioned it too – but it is also a problem of tomorrow. Infants are our tomorrow, and that's said many times, but they have a present, and therefore it's a double problem: the poor one who lives today, but the poor one who lives tomorrow. And it is also a double problem because the poor child is a problem that is present in the lack of material resources, but also in some cultural practices that reproduce viciously, in a way, say, repetitive, this poor child. And, therefore, we have a hard problem – we have a hard problem. By the way, however, the indexes – those that have already been said – are indicating to us that this is a problem that we need to act on and we need to intervene in. If I had so far congratulated the motion for a motion and all that has been done, today's interventions make me feel that congratulations and thanks for this proposal, for this motion, for the political character that derives from it. It's a problem of this style, it's good that each one takes a political position, logically, it would just be missing. I will end, in fact, defending or demanding that there be political positions and political proposals on the part of independence, because, if not, it will not be. But if we are just a tool for throwing stones at each other, then we are hardly making real use of our abilities to give answers to social needs and, in this case, to the needs of the poor child. I believe that what we are seeing from one another is retreating, and there are no ways of looking at and self-criticizing their skills in the government of the State or where they are– the Socialist Party and we can at this time govern, Citizens are now making opposition and I did not know well whether we were in Congress or in the Parliament of Catalonia... And, of course, just a little bit of a parenthesis: the problem of child poverty is not the problem of masks, it is a much harder problem and a problem that can be tackled in a much bigger way. The youth assigns some important concomities, and we have to act there, and it's the issue of single-parent families as one of the main affected. I'm here to act. We think it's appropriate, but there's only so many points. In fact, the intervention that there was when there was already the inquiry..., and in this case the councillor answered quite insistently, as because of the poor child, the issue of returning them from work, and here I believe that Mrs Ribas has also insisted that it is one of the key fishes. And here we have to look for a society in which the problem of long-term tourism is one of the hard problems, together with the quality of work, which is sometimes very low... so it makes this one of the causes. We need to act there, and guaranteed income is one of the tools. Access to food as one of the consequences in which this poor child is manifested. Certainly, it is not the only one, I repeat, but it is true that it is one of the central elements of the poor in its material representation. And here you have to find-answers. Well, let's go get it. The feeding grants and the proposals of the guaranteed footpaths in the secondary school are one of the forms that there was; it is not the only one, of course, that there was. Our voting position will be favourable and will translate into the positive vote and the forbearance vote in everything that is proposed. In everything that is purely political and usable, we say, to clean up and not be able to see the big one in the right eye, we will vote against it. And just a little reflection that I am addressing and that I am self-criticizing independence, that, either we are able to find answers and make concrete proposals to this difficult problem that is child poverty, or independence will not be. And, therefore, we have here a repte, forward; that we thank the young lady, that she has presented it, not the to and the partisan us who is angry. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix his position, the deputy Vidal Aragonese has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.14.0	Thank you, President, for speaking from the escho. Good morning, all of you. We would like to explain why we will vote in favour of all and each of the points of the motion. In the first place, because the first points of the motion that they make is a finding of the situation in which we are dealing with the government and the poor child, of what is not being completed, and therefore places us, for a band, these normal representations that should have been made, with the approved law, that have not been made. For another band, the lack of minimum GDP endowment for the child poverty, which is not being done either. And, thirdly, the lack of application of protocols in relation to poor children and, concretely, malnutrition, which are not developing. And they're agreements that came out of this Parliament, just as some agreements from this young man are coming out today, and we thought it was important. We also want to explain why we will vote in favour of a pact when this parliamentary sub-group usually does not vote in favour of, and most of it does not participate in, all that has been called the national pacts. Look, these national pacts are normally to place the government in the centrality and bring together representatives of the sector in order to arrive, after a few years, at a series of agreements that are incomplete, and therefore we do not want to place ourselves here or place the government in the centrality – that is to say, not this one, but all – nor a series of agreements that are not then complete. But the proposal we have today for a pact on poverty is very concrete. Political groups, premise and agreement. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is absolutely appropriate and that it can be a practice that gives a concrete result at short notice. And, therefore, we will do this exercise to vote in favour of it. And the third question for which we will also vote in favour is because there is not only a criticism, in this House, but there are proposals; proposals, moreover, that they land. It is discussed whether or not the guaranteed income was accepted, but there is also a concrete proposal to see how the guaranteed income is modified as regards severe poverty. To also build a map of single-parent families and how, then, about this, happens. And, in the third place, it is also ugly criticism of protocols, but then it is also proposed about protocols. And, therefore, they will find us in this. And one last and last thought more deeply. Look, many times we say: "This will be the generation that will live worse than their parents and their seas. So maybe reflection is another: this is the generation that sees worse than itself. Those who have finished the infanthood knew a society when they had the first elements of infanthood consciousness, and now that they leave the infanthood they know another type of society absolutely different: no perspective of the future, no perspective of stable work and with absolute uncertainty. So let's think about what it means and what it's been for the past twelve years because this generation will be the worst it's ever gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a new turn to Congresswoman Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.16.0	Counsellor, Members, Members, I want first of all to thank all the parliamentary groups that have announced that they will support this motion, the UPC, the PP, Citizens and Catalonia in Comú Puem. I would like to thank Mr Forné for acknowledging that we have a problem, but also that I think they would have to ask themselves whether from the CUP to the PP they are going to support this motion is because there really is a problem, and to deny this problem by saying that the Spanish Government does not do enough and that it is everyone's job and that all solve it is simplistic, because the Generalitat of Catalonia has all the competences in this matter transferred, so it is their responsibility, so from this stage we ask explanations for this responsibility. I'd like to remind you of a few things, too. Time is short. Before the collapse of the Covid-19 the guaranteed income of citizenship reached only 81,000 households out of the 235,000 who were in severe poverty in Catalonia; 154,000 were left out of any kind of benefit. We are talking about households with monthly income of around 355 euros. It's a limit situation. It was urgent to know how many children lived in those homes, what their most urgent shortcomings were, and to take immediate measures to ensure access to minimum standards of living. This legislature began with a photo of the children's spokespersons holding a poster that brought Save the Children saying "The Children's Legislature. Actually, when we think about it now, we see the numbers of child poverty that have only grown – of severe child poverty – we see that this has been all but the legislature of childhood. But there are still a few months that are crucial, a few months that for many children and adolescents represent the difference between eating or not eating, between being able to have the least to live or not having it, and today we have an opportunity to rectify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This debate is over, so I'm guessing that, like the rest of the motions, we'll vote for them at the end of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the difficult situation of insecurity in the streets]] [[302-00248/12]] Let's move on, then, to the next point, which is the seven, and which is the motion following the question to the Government about the difficult insecurity situation that is felt in the streets, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., we are in front of a motion that seeks to guarantee security in Catalonia and adapt the lack of means of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. The problems of occupation, crime, organized gangs, drug trafficking, forced prostitution, multi-recidence and others... We must have the responsibility to return security to our streets, safeguarding and guaranteeing fundamental rights. To this end, it is essential to work also for the police, autonomous police collective. In order to start the way towards solutions, analyzing the objectives, marking the needs, turning them into priorities, contemplating them into a budget; only in this way will we make them a reality. I would like to thank Mrs Assumpta Escarp for her amendments and for the work she has done. I shall then take a decision on the amendments. Look, when we talk about occupation we ask the Government to implement the instruction of the prosecutor's office in Catalonia, where we beat records of occupation, and we must provide security and guarantees to the work of our Mossos d'Esquadra. Please note the great difference when we talk about "vague," "protest," and "demonstration." Of course, all the guarantees before it, but there is a big difference to break into cobblestones, burn containers or destroy urban furniture, as violent people do. It is unfair for citizens to have to pay for the party of destruction and rupture in our streets, it is unfair for citizens to have to assume the inaction of an Interior Department. On the other hand, we see how they attack our police, insult our troops and see our Mossos d'Esquadra. Look, allowing it isn't consistent, but it wouldn't have to be legal either. It may be that much of what is allowed in front of our violent ones, who camp out wide in the face of the inoperability, many times, of a Department of Interior..., without entering the field when we talk about the directive in arrests and the appropriate sanctions. Look, the cost of our municipalities will end up assuming us as citizens. We must remember every day: Catalonia needs a government that pursues these violent attitudes with all the weight of the law to ensure citizen, civic and peaceful coexistence in our streets. I am going to comment on some of the points of this motion, such as when we talk about the mobile park or the need to have our police vehicles properly, or the clothing, material, equipment, often demanded by this parliamentary group, which is renewing to European standards of security. Or the police stations. Is it a lot to ask, Commissioners to meet minimum standards? , when we talk about infrastructure, locker rooms, air conditioning, ventilation – today, with the theme of Covid, more necessary than ever in many aspects. Look, look and respect the maximum collaboration also with the state security forces and bodies – National Police, Civil Guard and local police. Respect the police work, which for this have been formed. The police have been trained to act as police. Let them work. A study of retirements at five, ten and fifteen years to predict the actual need at each time of the workforce. In the same way as prioritizing security when we talk about ensuring that for all our citizens, also drawing up a career plan within the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, starting to work on the future law of police, the law of second activity, changing the field of shared security, which in many cases leaves municipalities, contingents in summer time unprotected, recognizing and promoting that the work of mosso d'ésquadra is a profession of risk. Look, our duty as public representatives is to work to protect who protects us, and leave us the skin so that these men and women have all the resources and all our support. The government that needs Catalonia is a government that has neither fear nor complexity in defending the rights of all citizens, defending the existing legality, our legal system, our laws, our Constitution and, ultimately, our freedom. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy lady Assumpta Escarp. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.20.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, this is a type of youth from Ciutadans, a long – in my opinion, long – young woman who sweeps many aspects and who also lets us see what could be the alternative security and coexistence policy that Ciutadans would present. But, of course, it's also true that we don't know who Sámper's is either, because how he didn't come to compare from September 3rd, where he was appointed, to the Security Commission, so it's hard to imagine, during these four months of interinitiation, what he thinks he's doing, more than some statement encouraging us to go on. Therefore, my group – that you believe the counselor will eventually come, after all this time – had presented a message of suppression respecting this point, which has not been accepted, but that I believe the counselor will come, and therefore how he will complete his word, so that we have presented the message. It is obvious that Mossos d'Esquadra has structural problems. We have problems of lack of human resources, we have problems of lack of material resources, technological, inn every day of infrastructure. We also have problems negotiating expansion of the staff of Squad Mossos, as well as Bombers. But it is also clear that Covid has made changes in security: thefts have been reduced, some of these crimes have been reduced, linked many times to large concentrations of people, because they are not, but in change, has exposed other needs. For example, the role of Squad Mossos in prevention tasks, control and demand of the determinations of the Procicate, which, in my opinion, are not being done. The issue of housing occupations, criminal occupations, has also been highlighted. The people are more at home, the occupation of the second residences with criminal character, not only for the crimes committed between, but also, many times, taking advantage of the vulnerability of the people, and, therefore, delinquent, at this moment, passing the... And it has to be addressed – and it has to be addressed – and we think that at this point it's a matter of concern, and many, the assemblies, and they don't have the blame, counselor, for much that you tell TV3 that they do. Therefore, we will give support to implement the instruction of the Attorney General, to clarify, namely how Mossos has to do the due diligence because it is possible to carry out the unemployment, and, moreover, continue to deal with these cases, like the criminal group, which is what we believe it has to do. Also the legislative amendment for which it makes multirecidence. From here, the young man also poses a whole series of..., on the performance of the government, respects tolerance for some demonstrations and violent acts. Go ahead to what I've always told you, that it is that we are absolutely against any violent action, and therefore the need for everyone to reject violent acts, and, above all, acts of exclusion in any type of demonstration. But look at the language, because we may end up questioning the professionalism of the body. And, look, who's talking to you, you think, and you'll never doubt, that the Squad Mosos always act as a compliment to the law and respect the law, in defense of the general interest, with proportionality, professionalism and evaluation mechanisms on their actions. And I want to say now and here: yesterday, the feeling of the National Audience, which is also good news for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, makes it very clear that they are not an instrument of political causes, and I think that this is what should be our compromise, Members and Members, here. In this sense, we have presented some points that try to clarify and, above all, defend these principles. Some have been accepted, others have not – the deputy said it when he raised his young man. We defend that Mossos d'Esquadra and many of the claims here are planted with all the personal protective material. That's true. But I, if you fail the government, have such a long list that, truth be told, it would also be, this subject, but I don't know if I would stay here. For what makes to demand the compliment of the resolutions of this Parliament. Look, I told them the other day in the committee on security: there is no way to claim that the resolutions of this Parliament are complete. Any government that is said to be democratic the first that should be done is to do whatever their own parliament approves, and they don't do it, they don't do it systematically. And then we will give support, but not only for this resolution, but for all the resolutions that are being made in this Parliament and that affect any of the government departments. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.22.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, I want to begin my intervention by referring to the feeling of the National Audience that we met yesterday, showing, therefore, our escalph and our congratulations on the acquiescence of the dome, the former interior dome, and Major Trapero and intend Laplana. That said, and tied up, right? As we continue to do so, we do believe that the feeling that we have heard yesterday recognizes, therefore, that the U of October the Mossos acted due to the end of a task of mediation and not of the use of force before defenseless citizens, families and great people. And he tells us that the purpose of the police act that is derived from a court order was not to have the sole purpose of preventing the referendum at all costs if it resulted in irreparable damage. I think that what it shows is that the police of the Generalitat can act in different ways, and this is one. And what we want to transfer to the counselor is that I take that criterion too when it comes to dealing with vulnerable families. This is the police we believe in and want to keep Catalonia. That said, and coming into the motion presented to us by the Ciutadans Group, you are already in the question that they made to the councilman make an apocalyptic account of the security situation in Catalonia, right? They began, in fact, by saying 'to stop denying the obvious situation of increasing insecurity in the streets and in the neighbourhoods. And they relate as if Catalonia was a scener, we don't know very well, but catastrophic. The first one we want to do is a reflection on the perception of security and how these types of reports contribute precisely to feeding what we believe is not the most appropriate. If a data taker, for example, of the city of Barcelona, of the Security Perception Survey, it is certain that there is a perception of an increase, it is also certain that there is an increase in the crime facts – we do not discuss these data – but if you are fixed, if you ask for the perception of security at the city's conjunction, then there is a 47_per_cent that you actually believe that in the later year you took security at the city. But if he asks the same question and instead of asking for the city's conjunction, he says: "Well, and listen, to his barri, what is the situation of close security, in his barri? Then, it turns out that a large majority of citizens, two_of_each_three, believe that security in their own bar and its proximity remains the same or has improved. So, when we get into the reality of each one, so, the situation is not the same as the perception we sometimes transmit about the joint security to the country. Also on the ability of effect, it is to say, security does not only have to see the increase of the crime fact, but also with what effect it is endowed. And it's true that we come from a decade of austerity in which it markedly marked the number of Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadrons to the Generality, as well as the consequence of the default on the part of the State of which it would have been perceived in relation to Squadrons. But it is also true that this trend began to reverse in the later year with the presuppositionary increase in respect. About the type of crime, you talk about "occupations, organized gangs, and I don't know how many other crimes you have there, but it's not fixed that the crimes that have increased the most in the past have been sexual abuse and assault, to which you don't refer, when we talk about facts against people, or scams, in the case of facts against property. So, you're also heading over what they're most interested in reporting this apocalypse you describe, aren't you? Also about the complexity and multi-causality of security, that you simplify this of security, and it turns out that if we take The Economist's report on the security of cities, Barcelona comes out among the fifteen safest cities in the world. And why? Among other questions, because The Economist's index has a perception of security based on different parameters such as digital security, healthcare security, infrastructure, and personal security. And when you take a complex dimension of what security is, it turns out that we live in Catalonia in some of the safest countries in the world and in Europe. And in this context of the complexity of security, we believe that we also need to look at other issues. For example, in what we are told by Intermón Oxfam, who estimates that the pandemic will increase by 9.4_per_cent in Catalonia the cases, therefore, of poverty, and that we will have Catalans and Catalans who will become poor. Isn't that insecure for you, Citizens? Because, in relative terms, the poorest decile could get to lose proportionally more than eight times as much income as the first decile. Therefore, inequality. For us to build a secure society passes, yes or yes, to build a more just and more egalitarian security. In short, as we do not share your focus on security, we will vote against most points of this motion. Yes, we will gather it in those, therefore, that make reference to the demands of work or to the compliment and the accountability of the Consellaria d'Interior respect what we ask of this Parliament. These points are going to be voted for. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent has the same words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.24.0	Yes; while we are discussing this motion we are not talking about denunciations, we are not talking about the faixist mafia of Desokupa, the millionaire bailout bank, the failure of multiple laws in housing matters, the regulation of the loguers, which is not complete, the speculation of the sources to become strangers and the police violence of the Government of the Generality. You said that the real battle is the one that defines the battlefield, and that's what the congressman did very well, he did one of us and they did. One of us, our forces and our security; one of them, violent, bells wide. So, miri, we are of the violent ones that camp in their wide. Why? So why are we from those who organize themselves at every bar, who endure every denunciation, who face injustice; those who make city barrels for whom they dwell; those who come out every day because we believe in social justice, and who face a state and its organization. To a capitalist state that understands housing as a commercial right, to a capitalist state that puts people in jail to defend their ideas, to a state that causes many feminists today to be prosecuted to defend our rights, to a state that also represses those who defend the territory. And, well, we'll always be on people's side. Therefore, we will not take up their battlefield at the rhetorical and discourse level and always defend legitimate rights of protest and legitimate right to political dissent. You say it's compatible. So, look, when I come out on the street next to the people who are organizing, I don't see compatibility between today's security model and the phone book rights of gathering, protesting, vagrancy and legitimate exercise in political dissent. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.26.0	Thank you, President, Counsellor; from the seat. To express our support for the motion, a motion that denounces, on the one hand, the growing insecurity on the streets of our towns and cities and, on the other, gives us some input on how to combat it. For us insecurity is fought with democratic firmness, of course, but also by providing the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps with the material resources necessary to combat this growing insecurity. Therefore, insecurity is fought by providing resources, insecurity is fought with cooperation and loyalty with the rest of the state's security forces and forces. Insecurity is combated by supporting, from the Government, the Corps de Mossos d'Esquadra, which often performs its functions in extreme and very difficult situations. And insecurity is also combated by showing empathy and sensitivity with the Mossos d'Esquadra, especially in these pandemic times. And they must be able to perform their functions with proper protection against the virus, and when this passes, with personal protection improvements, with improvements in vehicles, with improvements in equipment and with improvements, of course, also in the police stations. Everything is little so that the Mossos d'Esquadra can guarantee the important role they play in any democratic society, which is to preserve citizens' security and also to preserve public order. This is basically what the motion is about, and therefore we will give it our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.28.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, good morning to everyone. Again, we are in front of the debate of a Ciutadans youth about whom they consider the difficult situation of insecurity that is suffering in the streets of our country. A movement full of topics in security, a ‘mantra that Ciutadans is limited to repeating and repeating hoping that someone will believe it. A motion which seeks to bring together all the motions for resolutions which have been submitted to the Committee on the Interior, bringing together all those questions which have been dealt with and which have been repeatedly debated, making the debate today nothing more than a debate that has already been seen. The point of view of Ciutadans is catastrophic and it seems that Catalonia is not able to walk the streets because of the lack of security, which is not certain. As we have already told the committee, we do not share in any case the view you have to address the security issues and, of course, we do not share the whole or the way in which you express the vast majority of the points of this motion. For these reasons, it is impossible for our group to support it. For example, you believe that housing problems or denunciations are solved with more police. We are aware that there are conjectures to be addressed. But to believe that the measures they put in this young man will solve everything... is that they do not understand that it is not about a subject, a problem of security, but it goes further and can face it from a social and transversal perspective. Measures such as the law limiting the prices of the lodger are necessary to address these situations; real measures that seek to improve the housing emergency facing our country, and you did not give it support. For what it does to the security of the agents during the pandemic, the measures it has taken to the department in this sense to avoid the contagious..., a continuous effort has been made to update the measures, steps and preventive actions for the security and safety of the agents in order to minimize the impact on the police body. Actions have been taken to reach all units of the protective material, such as gel, masks, gloves and PPE. They have also completed disinfection tasks at police stations, police buildings, and also at police vehicles, among other actions. Referring to their demand for new equipment, last September they presented the new patrol vehicles for the security of the city, which, in a first phase, before finishing this year, will put in march 237 our vehicles, a 25_percent of the total, and 2021 will put in operation 382 our vehicles. So, you need to know that 2021 will activate the so-called uniformity change to the citizen security units with progressive implementation in the rest of the units, with lighter, more resistant and comfortable textures and adapted to the needs of the body. Currently there are 16,916 effects of the Squad's Cos de Mossos, and we are still far from the required number of 18,267 effects. New moves promotions have been approved and convened over the past few years to increase the staff and cover the retirements planned for the next few years. We agree that we need to continue to increase the number of police officers to meet the need for security and the country's security challenges. Therefore, it will be necessary to continue calling for nine seats. From the police council, it is necessary to continue working hard and to establish the foundations of a professional career plan. And for what it does to the hardship and perils associated with the police work that you specify in this motion, they are already recognized in the form of complete remuneration to the monthly payroll. I would also like to make a reference to the change in police number, the NOP, which ended up in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, Brimo and ARROs. From here aggravate the work done for Iridia and Amnesty International, in this sense. And this change is a positive change that will help ensure the correct identification of agents involved in the actions, as well as ensure better protection for the rights of the citizenry. Finally, for what he does to the appearance of the Councillor of Interior, the Honourable Mr. Sàmper, to explain the management of his department, this is already planned for the next December 28th to the Commission of Interior. I don't have any more time to go in and value point for point the big reason you've presented. I would also like to say that there are points that are not worth it, nor are they just being mentioned in this rhetorical and unworthy faristol, to which, unfortunately, we are already too accustomed. Since the Republic Group we will not support it, we do not share the model of security that you defend and we do not share all the proposals that you present. Finally, we rejoice at the absolute feeling that yesterday they made at the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Major Trapero, the intendant Laplana and the lords Cèsar Puig and Pere Soler. Send them a strong hug for all they've had to deal with these years. And, in addition, this feeling also supports the performance of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra during October 2017. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Roquer has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.30.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, Mrs Escarp said that she presented a motion to the style of Ciutadans. I think it's two novelties that respect Ciutadans' motions, this one. On one side, they usually run a few motions with a motley display like that, a little arson, huh? , and, then, a 'clausulate in the operative part..., something that can be voted on, if there is a good will. So, they also do something else, they make an exhibition of motius and they present a more or less small part of it, and they present what could be a motion or a motion for a resolution in different points, so they compute them as more motions that they present in this Parliament. This one has no motivating exposure and has a long and arsonous part of it. And it starts with a sophism. Vostè diu: « To stop denying the obvious situation of increasing public insecurity in the streets and neighborhoods of Catalonia. All right. You can't say stop denying it. The Department of Interior publishes data continuously, practically in real time. I went to Google, Mr. Castel, I went to Google and I laid down crimes Mossos Catalunya. First entry: annual statistical reports from 2010 to the current. Second entry: a database in Excel, in which you can download for commissioners– for commissioners–, for basic police areas, crimes– known crimes, solved ones– and arrests that had occurred. And I added, I added the 2019 ones, until August month – they are stuck until August month –; 2019: 380.043 known facts; 2020, 267.817. Remains: 112,226 cases less, a 29.53_percent of cases less. So, as you can tell us..., draw the conclusion from a false premise? It is clear that there is a lie that there is an "obvious situation of increasing public insecurity, because there is a reduction. And the Parés deputy from the city of Barcelona spoke. It seems to me that the reduction to the city of Barcelona is 42_percent of the crimes; for the causes that follow, but there are. Ask us to meet the Sàmper advisor. You know that the 28th will come to the Interior Commission, or he has asked to compare before Parliament, as at least, and it seems to us that the 28th of October will come. Every young man, every young man you present to us speaks of the need for collaboration between the forces and security forces of the State in Catalonia, the Squadron Mosses and the local police. There are local security gatherings in every municipality of Catalonia, practically, and there they coordinate and cooperate, the police. And, listen to me, every man has his skills, and the first one that we should strive for is that every cop, in the framework of his skills, completes the job he's in charge of. It is about "the fugitive from justice. The fugitive of righteousness that I know, here the only one that I know is the king Emeritus. [[applause]] There are no others, no fugitives from justice here. And I don't think there's any movement there, on the Arabian peninsula, watching the emeritus king, I guess – maybe that's it, I hope that's it. It's about cars, costumes, EPIs. Know that you are not buying, know that 60_percent of the cars at the end of 2021 will be us – you know –, know that you bought clothes, know that you have bought EPIs. I, not to enlarge myself, in a motion in which there are expressions such as "to stop denying the obvious situation of insecurity in the streets and neighborhoods of Catalonia, "the security crisis suffered by the citizens of Catalonia, "to cease their policy of protection of violent groups which, overflowing and abusing the right of demonstration..., "to ensure that the DAI acts in accordance with the laws in force and not according to the political interests of the parliamentary groups occupied by the Government, in breach of the duty of protection of public servants, "to leave municipalities helpless in the face of growing public insecurity in Catalonia... In short, confrontation and conflict, Mr. Castel, on issues such as citizen security..., that citizen security should be a matter of state, it should be a subject that should generate consensus in the country and be pursued. Three electoral reports of true myths, omitting information or raising to category anecdotes does not favor perception or citizen security in the country. And that's all that we, all of us, all of us could agree with some point of your motion, we would vote in block, not your motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, in order to position himself on the issues, Mr Jean Castel has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.32.0	Thank you, President. Lies, populism, demagogicism, and some, with the suitcase and vacation. I would like to thank Mrs Escarp again for the work she has done and that we have been able to share, even though we have not been able to reach a consensus on all the points; Mr Serrano, like Mr Parés, that we have been able to have a telephone conversation and evaluate the points of this young man. And I won't waste a minute of time with anyone who doesn't want to do the work, with anyone who denies the reality, with whom I kept the problem in Catalonia, and before the demagogue and the continuous lies that you emanate from this Parliament, from the committee... we won't get into this sheet. I want to talk about the papers that Mrs. Escarp presented to us. Some of us, as I was saying, have been able to enrich this young man. We wanted, with this young man, to provide the guarantees that the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos demands and that you, some of you here today have demonstrated – that is not to be told to me – lies, demagogy. They'll explain it to our police officers, and I assure you, I assure you, they'll end up paying for it at the polls. This parliamentary group that won the elections in Catalonia will ensure that the future government of Catalonia is able to face so much demand, so much incomplete pact and so much continued lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. With the rest of the motions, we'll vote for them at the end of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the occupation of habitats]] [[302-00242/12]] Let's move on to the next, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the occupation of housing, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.34.0	President, Councillors, Members, Members, this motion that we present today, the result of the inquiry that my colleague Rosa Maria Ibarra – who today cannot be defending the motion – made to Councillor Calvet, talks about occupations. And we must remember that there is a fundamental fact that fosters this reality, that it is the lack of adequate housing. We say, or the deputy said, that many families see occupation because they find no other way to access a habitation. And that's why, in this young man, we want to make it clear that housing policies, in our opinion, have not been a priority of this government. Data from the presuppositions and consolidated assumptions of the Generalitat: in Catalonia the year 2019 was allocated still no. 194_million euros to housing policies. Comparin: the year 2010 was destined 437_millions. It's a substantial difference. In fact, the investment in housing in Catalonia is thirty-three euros with two euro cents per inhabitant. We're under the Spanish middle in the reverse. Actually, we're in the community sisena for the cua. The last dice: the Incasòl, the year 2018, did, or produced, eight habitats. 2019 was twenty-two. Thirty social housings made for Incasòl in two years. And Councilman Calvet gave it to Congresswoman Ibarra and took it away from her intervention and blamed the country's assemblies for not being at the height of the situation at these times. Valga'm God. If in the most smoky moments of the housing crisis that has experienced this country – and that still lives, in some circles of our society – who has sought solutions have been the gatherings! And the advisor told us: 2,895 dwellings acquired with right of withdrawal; 150_million euros invested. And he said, "How many meetings have you done? Miri, it's gone where I've got the most at the abst. Then I also compared together the metropolis, which is where we have the most difficulties. I'll give you the example of my soc resident: the city of Granollers. So the percentages of acquisition by withdrawal are the same – the same – that you indicated to us here, and then blamed the joints of the problems we have. And he told us, in that inquiry, that he would offer the country's assemblies an agreement to inspect empty habitats as an instrument to fight against the other factor, which for us is determinant in occupations, which are, indeed, empty habitats. Strangely enough, this was taken out without talking to the assembly. We have spoken together where we have the problems detected in the house and do not know anything about this work that is going to be carried out again: to do the inspections. Look, until here we can agree that the local administration, which is the closest, does these inspections. What's not a waste, counselor, is that you, the government, just want to pay half the cost of these inspections. The other thing, which was discussed earlier in the motion presented by Ciutadans, and which the deputy, Assumpta Escarp, also makes reference to: the need that from the Interior, in coordination with the security bodies of Catalonia, also with the local police, also with the local mediators, do a more effective job in the struggle against the mafias and delinquency occupations, which are the ones that end up producing problems of coexistence in some circles, in some of the barrels of our towns and cities. And, finally, what we're proposing is to increase the habitat of logger at affordable prices. Who has the responsibility to get to the percentages of social and comparable loguers similar to European standards? The answer is obvious, counselor. Not the private owners. What is responsible for this is the Government of the Government of Catalonia, prioritizing its assumptions to produce housing to facilitate and solve the housing problem that we still have around our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.36.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party, we are very concerned about this drama that many families and small owners in Catalonia are suffering, which see how their homes are illegally occupied with total impunity and that nobody does anything, absolutely nothing, so that they can recover their homes within a reasonable period of time. An illegal occupation that has become a social problem in Catalonia, and therefore we ask the government zero tolerance against illegal occupation. According to the data of the Ministry of the Interior, during the first semester in Spain there were 7,450 complaints by occupations – 7,450 complaints –, a 5_per_cent more than the same period in the previous year. Almost half of these occupations – almost half – have occurred in Catalonia. Catalonia leads this bad ranking of illegal occupations in Spain. The second community, which is quite far away, is Andalusia. Catalonia triples to Andalusia, and Catalonia multiplies by six occupations that exist in the Community of Madrid. Catalonia, in this period, in these first six months, has had a growth of the occupations of 13_per_cent, while in the same period in Madrid the occupations have descended in a 10_per_cent. Catalonia has become an okupa friendly territory – okupa friendly – because the government does absolutely nothing. In addition, communities of neighbours are completely helpless. They have no legal instruments to be able to throw out of their communities those who alter living together and who make it difficult to live in these buildings. While all this is happening, we have an effect called. An effect called in Catalonia that has grown, moreover, by the decree law of urgent measures that guarantee access to housing that was approved in this Parliament. By this decree, those who occupy a dwelling have preference for those who are on a waiting list. Totally absurd – totally absurd – and that is why we have resorted to that decree law from the People's Party. From our party we're not going to look anywhere else. In Catalonia twenty houses are occupied every day, twenty houses every day are occupied in Catalonia. Those who illegally occupy see with total impunity that they can do whatever they want, taking advantage of the working classes, taking advantage of the most vulnerable families. The right to property should not be confronted with the right to housing, as if it were two totally incompatible things. Right to property, yes; right to housing, too. Fighting illegal occupation is not going against those who can't pay a house or can't pay a rent. Fighting illegal occupation is to protect the humblest families from the abuses of the mafias, those who demand rents for houses that are not theirs, those who make the business of breaking a lock a way to profit themselves. Therefore, we have to help those families, those vulnerable families and those communities of neighbors who have seen their building turn into hell, into hell by those who break up together, generate social conflict and use the method of extortion to drive those out of their own homes. That is why we have put forward an anti-occupation plan from the People's Party. An anti-occupational plan that seeks to define occupation as a crime in itself. That the authorities may evict within twenty-four hours after any complaint, stiffen the penalties of the Criminal Code, from one to three years, prohibit registration in illegally occupied dwellings, limit aid to those who break up living together in our buildings, in our neighborhoods, in our towns and in our cities, and give legal instruments to the communities of neighbours so that they can request eviction from those who commit crime or alter living together. That is why, from this group, from the People's Party, we have tabled several amendments to the text presented by the Socialist Group, and we deeply regret that they have been rejected, for the Socialist Group to look elsewhere leaving thousands of Catalan families, thousands of small owners in our territory, at the stake. It is of no use, Socialists, to present motions here in the Parliament of Catalonia. It is of no use while his Government, the Government of Sánchez and the Government of Churches, does nothing and does not legislate to solve this problem that we suffer in Catalonia and the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.38.0	Thank you very much. Members, Members, President, I, to begin with, I must say that I am glad that the Socialist Group has not accepted the views of the People's Party. It has also been well the same vehemence, clarity and conviction that the People's Party demonstrates to fight against the occupations at the time of positioning itself on Vox's motion of censure, but it seems that this is not as clear as they clearly criminalize the occupation. I'm going to go into the matter, and the matter is what this young man went about, which is subsequent to the inquiry the Socialist Party made fifteen days ago. I, indeed, have two parts that you can't help but say that they are obviously related. One is the inability to access a habitat worthy of thousands and thousands of families in Catalonia and the rest of the State. The incapacity they have had – I think we have to say – all, in general, public administrations. And, above all, I believe that we must clearly point out the years of the People's Party Government, that all the measures it implemented precisely benefited the banking entities, the speculation and the reversal and punishing and penalizing vulnerable families, making access to housing even more difficult. And also the fact that many of these families, therefore, have to resort to the occupation of empty habitats – in their majority, large owners. And that's just to look at the data they're giving out of-of-pocket orders to see what it's doing primarily because they don't have another way to access it. Where's this taking us? So that there are also some laws that penalize the right to housing, there are some laws that benefit speculation, and there is a lack of reversal of public administrations. And, in this case, that's what's up with us, from the Generalitat de Catalunya. What has already been said and said on various occasions: I believe that the Member of the PSC has already made some figures. Actually, the issue of building floors at Incasòl is quite scandalous: thirty in the last two years they have begun to build. Perhaps if he had the same good will to build official housing protection that they put on Hard Rock, then we might have another situation that is also different from housing, but it is a matter of political priorities. The government prefers to advance 120_millions to build Europe's largest casino, which is an attempt against public health, and does not prefer to advance these moneys to build social housing. So that's what I think it's all about. But not only that, but also this government – and yesterday Councilman Calvet gave us another exercise of what he likes so much, to throw the pilots away–, while keeping the skill of habitating, which is something that is forgotten once and for another, apparently... It's always the fault of the State because it doesn't invest and the joints because they don't invest enough. Therefore, pilots head up, pilots head down. Yesterday he came to say that the willingness of the joints to facilitate..., the right of families who are in housing emergency housing units to access the housing table to access a stable housing is to undress one saint to dress another; no, it is the right of families to access a housing emergency table, which, moreover, requires them as required for many other managements that need to be done. Therefore, what his government is doing is trying to house all those families who need social housing and who need access to protected housing. Why? So why don't they have enough. And it's just entering the website of the Catalan housing agency, so you see a little bit of that, right? We see a press release that celebrated, therefore, that Bankia has finally given forty-three more floors to the Generalitat, it has given them, in order to be able to offer social logger for families that are in a situation of vulnerability. Clearly, if we think that the deal with Bankia is 2014, that they had to make the 530-story cessation, and that we carry, so far, 340 out of 530, six years later, so, man, very willing, very willing is not that there is any, neither on the part of Bankia nor on the part of the Government. What is again there is the Government's will to outsource all its skills in housing and not to invest. This is another big issue, the lack of social housing. Lack of adequate housing for the most vulnerable families is the main reason for the occupation. But what we are concerned about is that the Socialist Party wants to fall into this generalist criminalization of occupation. That he does not want to accept, as he has not accepted, the message that we have presented to him to distinguish the occupations, to distinguish the occupations by social and economic emergence, by housing emergence, those that are ideological, like those of the House of Buenos Aires – and I want to take advantage of it now to give support to the people of the House of Buenos Aires; the project of the House of Buenos Aires has demanded that they not be released because it is a necessary project for the barri –, of those that are occupations, obviously, with criminal objectives, that we denounce, and that this is combat, basically, with more resources for Mossos and for prosecutions in order to investigate this crime. Because the moment it is found that there is a crime fact, the dislocation is immediate, because it is a crime fact. But until the crime is discovered, we can't talk about a criminal occupation. Therefore, this perspective of complexity is that it integrates them all in time to speak of a plan against occupations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.40.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we want to differentiate between the economic occupants and the criminal mafias who use the occupation to make their criminal activity. The first, which are the vast majority, are families that do not have any other option, that have been abandoned for the system and cannot access a habitation, and that occupy mostly the properties of the banks, of the returning foundations and of the Sareb. Seconds promote criminal activities, such as those that change the parts of a whole building and then come the keys to occupants who need economics. These do not only harm society and cause difficult security and living problems, but end up extorting the same economic occupants, who turn, at times, into victims of the mob. If we really want to combat the situation that forces people to make economic occupations, and to avoid also those that are criminal, we want to focus on the existence of a great boss of empty habitats that are in the hands, mostly, of great affections, and to make efforts to recover this boss of empty habitats so that they return to their social use, also reducing the number of people who need these kinds of economic occupations. In this sense, from this Parliament we have not made any measures, such as the price control law of the logger, which must extend the speculators of the housing market, such as Decree 17/2019, which forces social logger solutions to situations of employment with vulnerable people, and this decree, unfortunately, is ignoring all the great masters, such as some judges. And in this all of us should be helping, even the whole socialist group, which is proposing this motion, even though it did not support the decree. Also from this parliamentary group we have tabled a bill calling for an amendment to the Sareb Rules, to which other groups have facilitated their process. This would mean more housing at the disposal of the social logger and less empty housing. We also think they're going to cut the price so that whoever has an empty habitat can put it on the market. Decree 17/2019 allows the joints and the Generality to sanction large estates that have empty dwellings, and we also have the tax on empty dwellings. This is when the PSC gave for good this tax, since you voted against it in 2015. We agree to increase it, but we disagree on the IRPF's incentives. You – and I'm talking about the Socialist Party and the People's Party – designed one of the worst tax incentive mechanisms for small owners: the sale deductions, which helped create the 2008 real estate bubble, and which still in the last 20 fiscal years has caused the State not to receive 100,000_million euros. And now they're betting again for similar measures. Our aim was to encourage the rehabilitation of small owners who want to introduce housing to the logger market. I don't know if they remember the campaign« Barcelona, pose 'tmaca, of when the mayor of Barcelona is deia Pasqual Maragall. This did more for the rehabilitation of buildings and housing than all tax breaks. And we want to connect this rehabilitation to the entrance of the housing to the market of the lloger. This would have a more positive element than IRPF reduction. In this line, they didn't want to accept the puzzle. Moreover, it is always argued that the independenceists come here with proposals that are not the competence of the Generality, but, in change, you offer us deductions from the IRPF that are not allowed for the Law 22/2009, of cessation of taxes; either you should ask your company in Madrid or join the demand to be an independent state in order to be able to make these modifications, or what we want. I'm glad, though, and that's what I'm very happy about, that I didn't fall into the trap of the strands. These try to create a focus around the onerous occupation of someone's usual habitation, which actually generates a terrible damage to whom it suffers, to criminalize all economic occupation. It is easy to empathize with those who occupy their habitation, rather than with a bench or a fountain to return. It means that this is a false_mark and focuses on a very small minority of occupations and cases of denunciation. In total, according to the statistics of the judiciary, 2019 was 238 cases throughout the State. In change, occupations of other types, basically of economic character..., the judiciary opened 4,687 cases of habitation usurpation or 14,618 disputes between tenants and owners by default. Actually, the focus is on where there have been no cases. Moreover, these expensive occupations of habitual habitation have a differential criminal treatment, and the courts have tools to make an immediate denunciation, protecting the right from whom they usually live. If they were on the street, they'd come up with the causes and the social effects, and that unfortunately in these empty habitats a lot of people are there because they don't have any other possible solution. Let us also focus on this reality, focus on policies that avoid this type of situation to the maximum, and reduce the number of empty habitats in our country, and focus on facilitating a housing alternative in cases of relocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Antoni Morral has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.42.0	Good morning, President. Members, Members, allow me, before doing my little intervention, to respect the issue of housing, to say that the feeling of yesterday in Trapero obliges us to say: freedom political prisoners, not one more day in prison – not one more day in prison – and archive of all that is the independent cause of the U of October. That said, we want to put, in this motion presented by the Socialist Group..., we want to put in value what is the high consensus that we have reached, is to say, to a good extent, let us say, of the proposals and articles of this motion. In fact, we are talking about a problem that has a qualification – I think that no one, therefore, can deny it, to these elevations – of dramatic. The situation, let's say, of the housing crisis, the housing crisis, at these times is very important. And this high consensus that this young man has had, therefore, is that there is work going on, and that good part, let's say, of the proposals that are being put forward, so they are, in some way, on the way, or they are working or there is an important effort in the direction of being able to resolve them. Now, that's right, we agree: dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction because there is certainly a lack of resources. Lack of resources, and also, let's say, so, lack..., or need to increase institutional cooperation much more. And, in this sense, the first two points of the motion we cannot vote in favour. We cannot vote for them because, precisely, they are in the direction of blaming an administration for a problem that affects us all, and all administrations have an important responsibility in this regard. And, therefore, to say that the Generality does not provide sufficient resources, so yes, we can agree, we would like to provide much more, but the Generality does provide all the resources it has at its disposal, and increased at these times with respect to what the Generality's assumptions can support. Indeed, we lack resources. The key to resources is Madrid, and we know it. The key to resources is Madrid tea. And, therefore, in this sense, certain, dissatisfaction because we lack more resources, lack more resources to the Generality, lack more resources to the joints, and here a greater commitment from the State to pursue more resources for the issue of housing in Catalonia. And cooperation, of course, is absolutely essential. Frankly, if cooperation is always, together, necessary, in this case of the housing crisis is absolutely essential. There are many management skills that have the joints that provide or can provide very important management values in this sense, let's just say, to the skills you have in proximity policies. For example, with all the themes of mafia and struggle, local safety boards have an important role to play; the acquisition of content and retraction could be used much more; the tax on empty habitats. The social services are those spaces, let's just say, that they can somehow come into personal contact with the plaintiffs. But there are also many actions and competitions and tools that the Government of the Generality and this Parliament have created, therefore, to solve this equation. The law decree for the content of the prices of lloger, which has been approved does not do much, the law of the social lloger. Certainly, with the law of the content of the speakers it seems that in Madrid you have problems because it can be approved. It would be a good thing that the Government of Madrid, therefore, accede, the PSOE, to be able to approve a law of these characteristics, which seems that this is not..., you do not have, let's say, enough strength, and still be in the Government, because that may be. Taxes on empty habitats... That is to say, this Parliament has created legislation to promote important policies to resolve this issue. In the last two points, we, however we can share them, will abstain. We will abstain, first, because the issue of the modification of the IRPF, the competitions with the IRPF, the 90_per_cent hold them by the Government of the State, and otherwise this petition is also carried from the Government of the State. The generality's delegated powers with the IRPF are very limited and do not allow you to act. And as far as the audit of the housing parks is concerned, this is a task that, in some ways, the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia manages daily, it is a common competence, and, therefore, it is an audit that is already being developed. They say, in this point that has been accepted by the group of the commons..., when they say to "promote lean mechanisms to increase the public housing stock. « Scattering mechanisms is a beautiful and magnificient euphemism to say that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.43.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.44.0	... what are lacking, of course, are resources, economic resources – economic resources. "Heavy mechanisms..., sure, it's very nice...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.45.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.46.0	... euphemism, but what we call resources, and you and the socialist group have an important role in this sense in Madrid to promote, say, contributions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.47.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.48.0	... has economic policies. [[The speaker keeps talking without using the microphone. Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.49.0	Deputy, deputy, it's almost a minute past. I am convinced that they will be able to follow the debate of the debate, which I do not deny is very interesting, at another time. Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and to fix its position, has the word Mr Dimas Gragera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.50.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Today the Socialist Party brings us a motion to talk about occupations. And I do not think that any Member who is concerned about housing and occupation should be overlooked by all administrations. It seems that only the Socialist Party, which brings proposals, in this sense, where it does not govern, as is this Administration, but in municipalities or in the Government of the nation does not apply and does not act in the measures they should apply. And as you may have guessed, the course of this intervention will, precisely, highlight these contradictions with regard to the presentation of this motion and what the Socialist Party is really doing. I believe that there is a consensus, between civil society, associations of jurists, lawyers, even socialist mayors, who agree that a key factor to fight against the occupation is a legislative change that, on the one hand, hardens the penalties... In Comú Pomera's spokesman said that there were some who criminalized the occupation. Like it's not a crime anymore, is it? On the one hand, the hardening of the feathers. And, on the other hand, the acceleration of the evictions of those who usurp houses or properties that others have paid with all their work and effort. And what do you do when you can really solve it, when Citizens, in Congress, make a proposal in this regard? Well, they vote against it, along with its investiture partners. And in the same month that you vote against it and reject it, you bring us this motion, to our mind, decaffeinated, and that, honestly, I don't think it changes the situation much for those who are suffering the problem. And I'm going to ask you directly, for if you, in the turn of the reply, could tell the Catalans why they change such important changes, that they even claim their mayors, that they could substantially change the situation. The reality is that we are not surprised, because considering that his governing partner, Mr. Iglesias, totally denies the current problem of occupation, or that Minister Robles, for example, says that no legislative change is necessary... Perhaps they can tell that to all these people who have been waiting months for the return of their property to take place. And that even if they take any initiative, it is they who may have legal problems. On the other hand, at the municipal level we have seen how representatives of the PSC take press briefings to demand the Government of the Generalitat, but they are forgotten to act in the municipalities and they are also forgotten to urge the Government of the nation, which is the most competent. Maybe because they're the same political color, aren't they? But I believe that the issue should be addressed seriously. We've even seen Collboni play a key role in these press conferences. The same one that governs with Ada Colau in Barcelona. That – as the spokesman of the People's Party said very well before – have turned Barcelona into an okupa friendly city. They have turned Barcelona into the city of go home tourists, but okupas welcome. And they reject proposals, such as those presented by Citizens, to declare Barcelona city antiokupa and a battery of municipal measures against the occupation. As they have also rejected when we present in the municipalities a census and a map of the situation of the occupations. But I see, in the motion before you today, you come here to urge the Government of the Generalitat to urge the municipalities. Well, man, do it from the city halls, that there are enough skills. At this point, I think we can deduce that this motion is more marketing than a real and honest search for solutions. With regard to the other section, to the other issues that touched on the motion, the housing points, because we agree perfectly with you in the criticisms of the Government of the Government of Catalonia for its inaction at the present time. But also for years, because housing policies must be addressed in the long term. And you have given a lot of figures, but I will give you one, which is clear and obvious: you allocate more to TV3 than to investment in public housing. I think we can give a lot of data, but this one I think everyone can understand. But we would also like to highlight what you do in the city halls. Because you, over the last few years, have launched yourself into the real estate adventure in the municipalities that ruled, putting public housing sales promotions at prices that were the same as those of the free market. In a model that contrasts with what we defend, which is a rental, precisely, so that the public soil does not fall into private hands over time. And finally, the last contradiction is: if this government is so bad – that we agree with you, that it is so bad – what do you do by governing with them in municipalities, in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, in the parliament? , where there are many competences in the field of housing and occupation, and you do not apply them. And there they also have inaction. It's over, President. For our part, we want to tell the Catalans today that we really defend two rights, such as the right to private property and the right to decent housing. And we do it with an equal speech, in all administrations, coordinated and not in an interested or partisan way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.51.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word now Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.52.0	Thank you, President. We saw that a few months ago we were immersed in a campaign against occupation at the media. And it's a repeated mantra, of which private security companies are also fed. We have said this before: while we are talking about the occupation, we are not talking about the raw reality – that it is the denunciations –, the Faixista Mafia Desokupa, the bank rescue, the laws of housing that are not complete, the non-compliment of the law containing the prices of the logger. We're also talking about police rape, back-to-back fund, and we're going to repeat certain mantras. The first mantra. So when a holiday leave, they'll take over the house. And, look, the truth is that when a vacation is over, the most likely thing is that when you get back to a job reform, you get through the penal code, you get a constitutional reform to keep rescuing bank entities. The real danger, precisely, is that a whole country was subject to the benefits of a few. Now they're talking about a friendly town. We could talk, better, about a city's friendly speculation, couldn't we? Because, in the end, the protected legal good, the most sacred of our legal order, is private property. And that can't be discussed with me. Private property is the sacred good of our economic system. The truth is that our country is a paradise for something, it's a paradise for speculation, where we became strangers, because of the complicity of administrations that destroy the lives of thousands of families, they came appropriating and devouring the barrels, cities and towns of a global pandemic. Now we're seeing hotels, too, right? They've been buying them. I, for the last time [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , which – and I finish, President – harden the laws. So, mirin, maybe we should end the laws for the Punic, for the Gürtel, for the Kitchen, for the EREs or for other cases. And you didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, Mr Jordi Terrades has a late turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.54.0	Congressman Reyes said: there are some people together who are friends of the occupation friendly. I'll get you to use this definition, but to talk about the government of Catalonia, huh? , because one has the feeling, sometimes, that it has not finished acting with speed and diligence enough to address this issue. Our parliamentary group two years ago asked them to make a cross-cutting plan to fight against the occupation and they did nothing or little, huh? Why, while we solve the housing problem through housing occupations, the pressure on the months of low social emergence, huh? And, therefore, here again our insistence that who has the responsibility to activate housing policies of the social and affordable logger, eh? – because sometimes the price of social housing is not amenable..., which has the main responsibility is the Government of the Government of Catalonia. The government of Catalonia could do something else. And the groups that support the government could encourage the government to do it, huh? That's not what you did, either. We talked about the law that allowed a certain taxation, a certain tax on empty habitats. But, listen, the tax on empty habitats could be a sketch, huh? , from the Comedy Club. Because this does not encourage the great willingness to make available to the Administration or the citizens and citizens of these habitats. They prefer to pay this tax to make housing available to vulnerable administrations and families. They encourage them to increase the taxation of the empty habitations of the great tenors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. As the rest of the motions, and as you well know, he will vote at the end of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the presuppositional management of Hard Rock's project]] [[302-00245/12]] So, let's go to the next point, which is the split, and which correspond to the motion following the question to the government about the assumption management of the Hard Rock project. To present the motion, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.56.0	Thank you, President. Let's discuss again, at our own initiative, from Catalonia to Comú Podemos, in this chamber, about the Hard Rock project. But I think we're no longer discussing just whether or not we're at the biggest casino in Europe, we're not already discussing the scandal that Hard Rock represents, but I think we're discussing what Hard Rock's fluff can be. And I refer to the words that were served in this case by the Counsellor of Territori, in the later committee – to the appearance that was made jointly with the Vice-President of Economics, Mr Pere Aragonès – who have to see with the concrete conditions of the contract. I mean, it's no longer a "yes" or "no" to the project. We have always rejected the need to build a recreation center that, in the background, is linked to a project essentially of the game. We're talking 1,200 dark butt machines. We're talking more than a hundred stakes in the game. But, above all, what we are discussing today is in what conditions and what the Generality is playing with the resources of all Catalans and Catalans. And what we say is that the risk, which is risky, which is playing the roulette, which is playing, in this case, also Monopoly with the resources of Catalans and Catalans is the Generality. Because what the counselor recognized is what the contract says. That it is that, for two years, the firm Hard Rock, if it is not fulfilled certain conditions, if, for example, it is modified, as has happened, the urban conditions of the project, will be able to force the Generality to buy back, in this case, the lands that until now were owned by the Box. And that's what shows who's the role the Generality is playing and who's the role the Incase is playing, that we think it's high risk. So what they're doing... and that's what explains why not directly Hard Rock buys the land of "the Box," that the Generality isn't just acting as an intermediary, but as a commercial. That is to say, the Generalitat buys land from a bank and bank, in this case, from Hard Rock. Because, ultimately, what is on the table is that the risk that this operation will not be completed is that it will be assumed by the Generality. And Territori's advisor said: "It's all right if, at some point, Hard Rock gets back and we stay with the lands that until now are from the Box, because at least the Incasol will have increased assets, we'll have some land theoretically valued at 100,000_million euros and we'll find someone else who wants to occupy these lands. And that's what we're discussing today. Therefore, I also ask the rest of the groups not that we have the debate depending on whether or not Hard Rock, but whether depending on the conditions negotiated today by the Generalitat, that they are girls to the measure of "the Box and Hard Rock", is a project that is of interest now in Catalonia. And it is not certain that there is, in this case, public money or it is not made from the table of public money. First, we'll see if we don't finish eating the land, but then there's also a cost of opportunity, because it's true that Incasol decides to use a portion of its resources, which, moreover, will not recover in the same operation, for which it has been said. I mean, it's always been said that an operation is performed in one act, but the payment is done, that's right. And it is a very important reversal on the part of Incasòl, when, probably, we could decide that, strategically, in the search for industrial soil, in the bet for projects linked to the need for economic transition or to the protection of industry in Catalonia or in the bet, for example, to build Catalonia the largest scientific cluster in Europe and not the largest casino in Europe, so it is lost or, in any case, it is decided to place the eggs in a certain cyst, that it is a project linked to the game and that it is a project linked, obviously..., you say not, but to very large externalities, which are also associated with money laundering and a certain, say, way of hearing the tourism that we do not share. We believe in tourism... it's obvious that tourism needs to be preserved, but you can't bet on this type of tourism. It is a national pact for sustainable tourism, and that has nothing to do with sustainable tourism. I am asking the rest of the groups, and I am asking the Generalitat, too, that with a government that is in operation it is not possible to sign and execute this contract and with these conditions that are clearly a gift to "the Box and Hard Rock". Therefore, what we are asking is that the Generalitat freni, attur, that it does not concretize the contract in these conditions and that, obviously, I let a new Government arrive, that we hope that it will be with a different composition, that it will bury this project and, above all, the funeral in the conditions that you are willing to agree, in this case, basically, with the Box, that it is who wins, and that it does not risk anything in this operation made to measure by you for this funding entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, and in order to defend the papers presented, has the word of the deputy, Ms.Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.58.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Good morning, Counselor, President. They know very well what the CUP's position is in relation to the failed project or the Barcelona World nyap, the Hard Rock, the Eurovegas..., well, we know, obviously, what we're talking about. The position of the CUP in relation to this project and to the model planted by Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya for Camp de Tarragona..., we are totally against it. But it's that, besides, as Congressman Cid has already said at the presentation of the motion, it's a project that sets up some agreements, that is, one time it lands, some agreements that go totally against the common interest and good. In other words, when we explain and talk about Hard Rock, we say it's a project that has the Calvet brand. It is a low cost project, low cost from the perspective of the situation of the workers and workers of this casino complex; low cost because it mortgages the salvation of the supposed users of this center of ludopathy; low cost also because it is out of the way to the territory and trenches the territory. We also believe that if we add the contract and the scripts agreed for the Government of the Republican Left - Together for Catalonia on March 3rd on the table, it's a risky operation, it's playing roulette, it's making a blackjack with public money. And we, of course, will support the young man who is here today. And, plus, we wanted to add two items. One that refers to the urgent need to open work and dialog spaces to reflect on the socio-economic model of Tarragona Camp, because it cannot be that with the situation that we have experienced in the past years with petrochemicals and associated accidents and the situation that we also live with the tourist monopoly, by placing all the eggs in a cystella_sole, we hypothesize the lives of thousands of people in Tarragona Camp, of the comings and comings, of workers and workers to an uncertain future and to a future of precariousness and a future of uncertainty. As the priority for us is to be able to aim at an objective, we propose the creation of a table of all departments so that we can reflect on this future of the Camp de Tarragona and, more importantly, we want to put on the table a question that we understand that the Parliament of Catalonia is important to us. It's important that you realize what's going on. Today there are two entities – the Aturam BCN World platform and the GEPEC – that have denounced the Government of the Generality, that have denounced the department of Mr. Damià Calvet and the department of Mr. Pere Aragonès for alleged crimes of prevarication, for all the irregularities that accompany this project, I insist, Nyap. A project that accumulates prorogations, that accumulates incompliments, and that, moreover, as has been said, is a project that has an agreement on the Box never loses. Therefore, "the Box always guanya. What does Incasòl do? It gets 120_million euros on the table, pays the bill, buys some land at the "Trinco-Trinco Box, now, they come to Hard Rock at the end. So, what is the Government of Catalonia doing? It is financing a private, and favours the Box, the private interests of the Box. In addition, considering that they are toxic lands and that the Box is over, and still laughs. Hard Rock pays little by little, but the generality pays trinco-trinco. In a climate-emergency situation like the one we live in, in a health-emergency situation like the one we are living in, with the brutal economic and social crisis that passes through us as a consequence of the pandemic, the priority of the Government of the Generality in no case should it be betting on a project that..., that is a mirage, because it does not exist, because it comes prorogations. It's just that, in the end and in the end, this project will end up hanging because Hard Rock won't want to throw it away. Because it is obvious that the socio-economic situation and the consequences of the crisis and the pandemic on tourism have changed the reality in which we live, changed the standards of the game – and more so. And we must rethink, we must transform: we cannot continue to live by thinking that things will be as always; we cannot continue to think that totxo, low-cost tourism, and, in this case, a project totally focused on ludopathy is a project of success in the context in which we live. Therefore, we die not to Hard Rock, and especially we die to take care of the common good....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.59.0	Time's up, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.60.0	...yes to salvation, yes to territory and yes to take care of the public arches. And don't finance with public money a private...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.61.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.62.0	...that's what this government presents to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.63.0	Thank you. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.64.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, today we are living in this hemisphere a new minicapitol of the endless history of what has become what began as a hard-to-term attempt at a macroproject at Baix Llobregat, in the middle of the ninth legislature, from the hands of Las Vegas Sands and Sheldon Adelson, in the spring of 2012. Pays the penalty to remember that indescribable 2012, in which the very clever president of the Generalitat saw clearly that the only way to escape from the corruption that was riding him – well, I said « the riding, but no, I want to say « the riding – was to wrap himself in the separatist flag, and decided to pull for the right and captivate us in the most infertile and divisive period of Catalan politics for forty years later. That self-appointed government of the best – where they came from, and where they came from! – He took off the one-day handcuff for the other Barcelona World macroproject after Mr. Adelson left to entangle the Government of the Community of Madrid. It is not the case to make a detail of the main data of this whole process, starting with Barcelona World, first at Baix Llobregat and then at Vila-seca-Salou, but I cannot remember a very concrete one: the signature, on March 30, 2014, at the Torre del Pretori in Tarragona, of a two-band agreement between Convergence and Union – the Lord But as a signatory and as a maximum representative – and the alien head of the opposition, the Lord Navarro, on behalf of the always available PSC. The government of the proposed legislature temporarily left its preferred partner, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, to sign an agreement with the socialists and to launch a legislative reform that contemplated the lowering of the taxes on the game from 55 to 10_per_cent. A point, this one from the tax rebate, in which he did not have the support of the opposition, among them my parliamentary group, Ciutadans. This project, finally named Hard Rock Entertainment World, has always been a bit of an opacity – which is not surprising for anyone who knows the tarann of governments supported by one of the most corrupt parties in Europe, such as Convergence –, an opacity and a lack of transparency and honesty in the negotiations ahead of the final award of the project that the final bidders, the most responsible for Hard Rock, dubtessin, and many, of the intentions of the Government of the Generality – came to believe that they were going to get mixed up. At this hour, it's not clear who wants to entangle who. In any case, and to make it clear, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is in favour of the project finally named Hard Rock Entertainment World at the beautiful Mig of the Village and Salou Turistic Recreation Centre. But I think we can say that, as many citizens who are hoping that the works will finally start and the project will start, we are still immersed in a sea of doubts. How many years ago was the project supposed to be running at the Village and Salou Turistic Recreation Centre? How many years has it been talking about thousands of jobs associated with this project? How long do we have to wait for the works to begin? I'm not gonna put a date on it anymore. The government is still defending its management in this project, and it is doing so with two concrete promises: the project will finally pull forward and will not cost a single euro of public money. From Citizens we believe that yes, that the project should be thrown forward and realized. In fact, we believe that it should be a reality, but that the uncontrolled drift of the misadventure that we have been patenting for too long has made it impossible. It costs a lot to invest hundreds of millions of euros in a context of legal insecurity and political and institutional disruption that they have brought us to Catalonia. We also have doubts about the non-cost associated with the purchase of land owned by CaixaBank and the hypothetical need to face compensation to the former landowners in which this project is to be carried out. For Ciutadans it is very difficult to believe in the word of this government. We only see one reality: after four sterilized legislatures under the presidency of Mas, Puigdemont and Torra, the warmest is in the water. This project is still nothing more than paper, and it may still be paper full. In any case, in general lines, we will not support this movement of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, because we, Ciutadans, do want the project to shoot forward, because it can be a complement to the tourist activity on the Costa Daurada de Tarragona that allows to break with the habit of seasonality. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.66.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, we are still surprised that there is no Vice-President of the Government in this debate, because we are not talking about planning, today, Councillor. We're talking about the contract, we're talking about the economic resources of this operation. But well, in any case, the Territorial Councillor, Mr. Calvet, knows that – and we showed it to the appearance that was produced last week by both Councillors – the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress will not change its position with respect to this project. We have seen with good eyes the project of the Tourist Recreation Centre of Vila-seca and Salou. In the service sector at Camp Tarragona, tourism is the tip of the line. It has an economy generating value and, therefore, also places of work, which we cannot obviate or want to lose. That's why the Socialists were available to talk about this project. Other groups are never expected in the governance of the country's projects; sooner, in counterpoint positions, aren't they? , defending the ungovernability of the country. Counselor Calvet knows that the position of the Socialist Group was oriented towards certain questions, right? , that the project is adapted to the legality of Catalonia. Today I will not talk about the feeling or the planning, we talked about it the other day, last week; also that it is complicated advanced standards of generation, education and energy efficiency, of emissions, of recycling, and also of social conditions of future workers and workers of this space. But today we're talking about something else. We're talking about the general contract that generates conflict, which looks like we're getting even, huh? The Vice President of the Economy of our country has emphasized in this same Faristol that no public resources would emerge in this operation of the Turístic Recreation Center of Vila-seca and Salou. He went on to say that in his appearance last week, but when he was asked to do so – some of the Members and Members who are here today – there was no one, was there? If I may have the colloquial expression, he made a little eel, so as not to compromise the government with some of the questions we raised. Our group can come to understand that with an operation of this magnitude, in this case, the one that will acquire this solo, Hard Rock, ask for a series of conditions, in the sense of guarantee conditions respect the investment that must be made, and ask for certain updates – until the planning is approved, until the urbanisation project is approved and probably the streets laid down... So far we could hear the position of this operation. Now, in the middle of the road, I think the rules of the game have changed. Or there is one issue that is not explained to our parliamentary group, and which, to my surprise, as I think the rest – the rest or to a good part of parliamentary groups – we had when we knew the conditions, the month of March, of this acquisition, not for what it does at the end, but for that clause that came out at the end of which the Government of Catalonia would be obliged, in the maximum term of two years, to buy back or all the soil or that part of the soil that Hard Rock did not care about. There may be an obvious outflow of public resources here. We asked the Councillor, if he could make it clear, that he is the Vice President of the Government, who has the key at these times of the press and who has the key of the Government of the Generality's contract. And the answer was not produced in the sense that it was asked: a clear compromise that in this process that must take us to the month of December, that it is when it seems that the Government wants to sign this operation, it is to modify these contractual conditions and it is clear that the Government of the Generality will not have to buy back this solo in the next two years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.68.0	Thank you, President. Advisors, Members, Members, Catalonia's main economic sectors are industry and tourism. They're the main generators of occupation, they're the main generators of wealth. And also the Tarragona regions industry and tourism are the main economic sectors and, more importantly, around what we are talking about, around the Tarragonese, they invite and must continue to coexist with industry and tourism. And, besides, among the industry, the most important subsector is chemistry, and it's precisely what's closest to the Village and Salou Tourist Recreation Center. Since the first day we have apostatized, we are continually betting on parliamentary debates for the reinforcement of tourism. From here to a city we are debating a motion on tourism, but we have also done so on industry, because we understand that it is the two sectors that we need to strengthen because Catalonia continues to generate occupation and continues to generate wealth for the benefit of the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia. And, therefore, from our principles we have shown ourselves to be in favour of the project of the CRT of Vila-seca and Salou and we will continue to be in favour of this project. Now, it's also true, and so we've been told repeatedly, that we don't like the way things are being done. We do not like the girudges that this series has taken, from Eurovegas to the situation that we have here today, with the Hard Rock, with an inversion that each time has been waiting, with terms that have been dilating, with the participation of the Generality, which certainly raises many doubts, and so we have criticized it. They don't like the terms of the contacts being made. We do not like, either, the participation of Incasòl in such an important way in this adventure. Now, I believe that the answer is with the same reason that they put it to us, with the ideas that they have also accepted from the Subgroup of the CUP: create an interdepartmental table to talk about what should be Tarragona's future economics. So, mirin, we believe that who has to decide what the future economics of Tarragona should be is not to be an interdepartmental table. In any case, it must be the economic and social agents, and the economic and social agents of the territory have said many times, long ago, that they believe in this project and they ask us to collect this project. Therefore, this will be our position, because we understand that it is a good project for Tarragona businesses, regardless of whether the government manages it more or less well. Therefore, we will not give support to the motion that is planted, but neither, in this sense, do we endorse the government's policy in this operation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, the coincidence of the agenda ended up causing that just last week, as has already been explained, both the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Territories brought to an end a long and extensive appearance to a joint committee between the Economic and Historical Committee and the Committee of Territories of this Parliament of Catalonia, and they were able to explain many, many details. Someone was demonstrating a while ago, I think, that things were left to answer. Forgive me, it seems to me that they explained with much detail all the questions that were posed by the table, at least for those who had an interest in listening to it. Councillor Calvet was able to explain with a great deal of detention the content of the government agreement mandated by the Català del Sól Institute for the acquisition and subsequent alignment of the lands of sector 1 of the CRT, known as CTI – the integrated touristic complexes – and also was able to explain with detention the content of the consequences of the third section of the Administrative Court of the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia on 29 September, on the known PDU. I will not reproduce, because we have five minutes, the content of your explanations, because, moreover, it seemed to me that it became very clear. I'll only reproduce some of the headlines. As much as the Vice-President as the Councillor said: the buying-in operation will not cost a public-money euro. It will buy for 120_million and it will sell for 120_million. In any case, I would like to make some clarifications. The motion refers to an agreement of March 3, an agreement that was repealed. On March 30 another agreement was approved, on the proposal of the Department of Territories and on behalf of the Government of the Generality, where its system explicitly stated, "to leave the 3 March and 29 April 2020 governance agreements without effect in all its terms. Therefore, the agreement of March 3, at this time, is abrogated. On the other hand, the agreement of 30 September, rather than incorporating an extension until 15 December, a new extension – in this we do share some of the reflections that have taken place – also introduced another aspect, which was the willingness to review some of the guarantees that had been put in place. The agreement says, in point 3, that the Catalan Institute of solo is entitled to negotiate the imports of the quantities of the increases fixed in the private sale contract and to review the ordinary guarantees contained in that minute. Among other things, because also, as explained, it is certainly normal for private parties to ask for guarantees, above all, guarantees on the performance of the same Administration of the Generality. And it is logical that it is done in an economic context within a pandemic, within a crisis in the tourism and the ocean sector at international level, that it is not just Catalonia, but it affects the world, and therefore it is logical that in an operation of these characteristics guarantees are introduced. It is also logical, as explained, that this new extension be used to establish the review of guarantees, also because it is given guarantees to the same public administration, because it is given and has guarantees of general interest. Some considerations about the young man. Vote some points in a favorable way. The number of the vote will be favorable because, as the Councillor explained, the sentence valid eleven of the twelve points and, therefore, in this sense, the establishment of the department and the Government is not to seek a sentence validating a substantial part of the PDU. We will also vote in favour of point 6, because we agree that sustainable investments such as the Tramcamp are being carried to term. Now, it's also worth a few details. Tramcamp is a public infrastructure, environmentally sustainable, but it is not a productive and employment-generating investment. So we're not talking about alternate projects, badly; that's to say, the jobs that Hard Rock can generate won't generate the Tramcamp. Now, they are especially complementary and necessary complementary investments. And, finally, we will also vote in favour of point 7, which has been carried through the CUP's emena, of this creation of an interdepartmental table. In any case, it would be good for them to answer us if the proposing groups accepted the conclusions of this interdepartmental table, because the majority opinion of the territory is what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Eduard Pujol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.72.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillor Calvet, consisting of minutes, short and direct: too much imprisonment, too much repression. That's what I'm talking about. And I said that, good morning. And it's also in the record... talking is always good, always. But it was also in the Minutes: you told the Committee of Territories Vice-President Aragonès and Councillor Calvet that they had already answered for three hours, more than three hours, all the questions from all the parliamentary groups around this CRT, and it became very clear that it was done well. And it was also very clear, alert, that the last sentence of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia is a general yes on this project. Suspend a point, one, a partial point of twelve has nothing to do with suspending a master plate. Continue exhibiting – continue exhibiting – the song of "is not an unnecessary exhibition of dogmatism. We can't spend our lives seeing that a law, that an urban master plan – a PDU, in slang – that a public contest or that a sale of land – yes: purchase of land – do something dark for the sun to exist. We're talking about economic impulses. To drive a strategic project, these tools are necessary, yes or yes. We're transformative and pragmatic. This pragmatism is compatible with demanding, of course, all the rigour of the world to all the legal and technical elements that accompany a project, which we do. It would have to be normal to defend different country models, it would have to be normal. And it would be good not to fight always, always, against a little song that places you in the world of sorrows for the sun made to boost economic activity. Economic activity is necessary. Some of the people who are against this project today look at the eyes of the people of Camp Tarragona and say, "Look, no, no, you don't like a project that generates occupation? Do you sound like you're doing it? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot live in the air of the cell. And right now, listening to them, listening to Mr. Cid, we're trapped in a time machine. Although it seemed impossible, at the age of eighty there were activists of the "no to Port Aventura". And, today, these same things you see – that is, you put the Furius Bacchus with a seasonal step at hand – instead of saying: "Ostres, we were wrong, we were wrong from half to half, today they come back. Thirty-five years later – and it is remembered –, a project that is good for Camp Tarragona, again has political opposition. Please abandon dogmas and harms. Tarragona Camp needs this CRT. If we didn't dye it, we'd want to have it. Seeking the prosperity of the country should never be a political problem, ever. The government defends a project that is good for the Costa Daurada, which is good for Salou, which is good for the Tarragonese, which is good for the Baix Camp, for the tourism sector, for the service sector. It is good because it reinforces the tourism of conventions and conventions, which has added value. But, ai, no, no, no, the group of commons asks us to say 'no'. Escortin, aren't they after Barcelona school yet? Still don't get it after? For years you – you – have damaged tourism, and now it's gone, now that the Gothic Barrel is a devastating postcard of lower Persians, and at the back of every lower Persian there is suffering – yes, yes, I can already move my head, Mr. Cid – now what do we do? I see that instead of flow they continue with the 'not by system. I don't want to hang on to the Covid, I don't want to announce the two plagues of Egypt if the tourism doesn't come back, but I'm asking them to store the banner. And they demand it especially to the common after the shame of the undershore of Barcelona. The most advanced assembling of history, the most advanced government of Western democracies, the heroes and the superheroin of the "Yes you can have come from the coast of Barcelona in a subterranean. The promise to convert the locals of the Olympic Port into a space of science has vanished from time to time thanks to a great privatization. In the State they just had to say, "This is Barcelona, this is ours, this is neither coming nor touching, this is not private. All they had to do was do this. Mayor Colau did exactly the opposite of what he said he would do. In democracy, this, Mr. Cid, is a scam. In a normal world, this would be a scandal of disproportionate dimensions. That's a snitch, Mr. Cid. And that's what Pere Calders used to say. Malvenderre Barcelona a pams is a disarray; in change, promoting activity is the obligation of a good government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce now on the papers, has the parable the deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.74.0	Do you know what a project in the past century is? – of the 20th century, because more than twenty years ago we are in the 21st century –: it's still betting on the squids; 1,200 squids, a hundred tableaus of play. Look, this is a poker project, the blackjack and the roulette. Stop talking about this being a convention project, because it's not true. And this is his model of Catalonia. Because you're talking about "no," it's like betting for tourism and industry. Look, it's the industry's mind because they're unable to pull the national pact forward for the industry, and they've put the guinea to look after the chickens, which is Mr. Tremosa, which I'm guessing will be the worst company advisor to the history of Catalonia. And, second of all, you're still betting on tourism as the only strategic sector. I mean, where's the science bet? Where's the culture bet? Are we, in this case, the technology bet? If they are unable to pull forward the national pact for industry. And I insist: today we are no longer discussing whether Hard Rock is or Hard Rock is not. We've always said, and I think it's honest... that's to say, we've put ourselves on the side, for example, of those entities that claim, for example, against ludopathy, that this is not a good project for Catalonia, that will cause problems. And I hope time doesn't give me the reason, because this project doesn't end up, not for you, but because I think Hard Rock will end up going back. But now we're not discussing Hard Rock anymore, not Hard Rock. It's that you give them a gift to the Box. As you've always done, as you've done your whole life. And that's what you're doing, because who's taking the risk is Incase. It's neither Hard Rock nor the Box. And what you're deciding today is that for two years... because the conditions didn't explain them to Mr. Aragones. It's true that Mr. Aragones falls in love, but, like Mr. Calvet, he does speak clearly and Catalan, which he would say my friend. And what he said is, yes, for ten years Hard Rock will be able to recoil the lands that were from "the Box, which does not take any risks, to the Generality, if that's what you decide. And that's what you're deciding. So I don't want to give lessons from what you're doing, because whoever came to Catalonia for thirty years has names and surnames, even though she's a vagina changing party acronyms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, the record that this young man's vote will have a place in the late afternoon, once the question mark is substantial, together with the rest of the votes. We now turn to the new point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the import of the Ebro Delta to the primary sector, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group... Excuse me, Mrs Sánchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.76.0	For contradictions with Deputy Pujol. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.77.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.78.0	Simply make it clear that if you set as an example of success the project of Port Adventure, it is curious that Together for Catalonia poses as an example a project conceived for Jordi Pujol, Alavedra and De la Rosa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.79.0	Therefore, we continue with the point we announced. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the import of the Ebre Delta to the primary sector]] [[302-00246/12]] I've got a word from Congresswoman Irene Fornós to present the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.80.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, greetings, before my young man began, the people of the Ebre Delta, the people of the Ebre Lands and some of the mayors who today showed their willingness to accompany us here to the hemisphere, but who, as we all know, with the situation of the Covid, was not possible. Greeting the mayors of Amposta, Ràpita, Camarles, the rest of the mayors of the towns of the Ebre Delta, the representatives of the consensus table and other entities in defense of the Delta, who are surely following us directly from their home. Today's motion from the Republican Group is the result of the question that we asked fifteen days ago, which manifested the situation of vulnerability in which the Ebre delta is found because of the regression, the subsidence and the consequences of the climate change. And the consequences that they directly end up having on the same Delta, on their socio-economic activity, mainly based on the agricultural sector, such as the cultivation of the land. Having done this little introduction, I would not like to repeat in many things that I already commented on the other day, but I would certainly like to be in value what the Ebre Delta is. Surely all of us here are already aware, but I think it's equally important to repeat it. The Ebro Delta, as you all know, is the largest wetland in Catalonia, which integrates the most important aquatic, environmental and biodiversity habitats in Europe. A territory, moreover, strategic for agricultural economic development like the land, which occupies 65_percent of its surface. The Ebro Delta, which has an extension of 320_quilometres_squares, is the third largest delta in the Mediterranean, and it harbours a series of environmental figures that give it many of these protections, such as the Biosphere Reserve, a natural park on the part of the Government of Catalonia, and also other European directives, such as water, habitat and aus. Last week we also knew that on the part of the Department of Territories and Sustainability this protection was also extended to other areas of the Ebre Delta. But this is all at risk. The Ebro Delta, today, is at risk. And saving the Delta requires a lot of involvement and compromise on the part of all competent institutions. And this motion that we present today from the Republican Group went from this, to ask for this compromise and to throw in front of a whole series of measures that is now in the condition to be able to endure them. Now it's time, now it's time for the Ebre Delta. With regard to the young lady, I would like to highlight some of the points that we are presenting, among them, in this petition that we believe this committee to study in Parliament, and that parliamentary groups also carry the different views that we think are important that they can be, as may be the consensus table. There are also voices of scientists, technicians, experiences of people who have worked in the situation that other deltas find. And that's why we think this study board can also serve us. We claim, in this young man, that there is an institutional leadership. We believe that there should be this leadership on the part of the Government through the Department of Territories and Sustainability, and that it should be accompanied also, obviously, by the bodies of the territory that are working there, such as the Commission for the Sustainability of the Lands of the Jews, as well as the table of consensus and other representatives of the entities that protect the Delta, and also, in this case, the institutional part of the municipalities of the Delta. And to be there together, to work with the government on this Delta protection plan that the ministry says it will present us, and also to be able to accompany the different shipments from this hydrological plan, which is also working. We think it's important that everything in Madrid is consensual with the territory. But to do all this, as I said now, is Delta time, and I would like to highlight one of the points we present to the young lady, which is the last point of our young lady, which is that we now have the economic capacity to make it possible. As a result of the pandemic, Europe has made a recovery plan of €750,000_million, of which Spain has €27,000_million. Of these, 8,000_million euros are destined for the protection of the coast, and also for sustainability objectives. That's why we think that now, with this opportunity, we have to demand that in the very assumptions of 2021 the State include the projects that are already written. Projects as it may be to create, to be able to guard the Alfacs, to be able to bring down the sediments of the Red Riba and Flix embassements, and so many other projects that there is already on the table, in this case as they had commented before, also of the work, fruit of the work of the consensus table, that have given them the table. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Marc Parés, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.82.0	Well, thank you. Good morning again, deputies, deputies, councillor. In the first place, I would like to thank Mrs Fornós, therefore, for setting up a specific motion on the Ebre Delta, and also to thank her for the good willingness to negotiate one of our discussions, which refers to the Commission's reactivation for the sustainability of the Ebre Lands, an instrument which depends on the Generality, and which is the instrument which is claimed from the territories to deal with the social, environmental and territorial problems of the Delta. So, go ahead and get my grace. We'll vote in favour of all the points of this young man, too, because we share that we can denounce, once more, the vulnerability of the Delta and its primary sector, especially, right? , the culture of arròs and aquaculture, in front of global dynamics such as climate change, but also in front of regional dynamics of anthropological alteration of the environment, of the river course with sediment retention; and, therefore, to place here also the emphasis on the necessary project of sediment displacement of the Red Riba and Flix pantans. We agree to promote a study commission, as you propose in this Parliament, for the protection of the Delta, to continue putting the territory on the political agenda. But we believe that what really is executive measures, and here in Catalonia you, Mrs Fornos, govern. Look, we've proposed a territorial equity law that generates rights to the rural world, that incorporates funding from the urban world of green infrastructure for ecosystem services that provide territories like the Ebre Delta, and from which the whole country benefits. A territorial equity law to plan investments and policies to fight against territorial inequality, a law against depopulation to create a foundation for comprehensive human development projects in the most vulnerable rural areas, such as the Delta. This was our proposal, and this is our proposal. And the government of the generality, what has it done in the matter of territorial equity long after these years? So, unfortunately, we sell smoke, we sell smoke with the project."A living country, a country of opportunity, which still doesn't know what it is, and we don't even know what the results of this project are when the legislature is finished. And I said to her, Member, that this young woman is a peculiar hair, because you have been asking the Agriculture Councillor, the Councillor Jordan, her councillor, who is not here today, and, in a different way, if there is the Councillor Calvet – who we like to follow, and who has felt that there is – because you, after asking the Councillor Jordan, have presented a motion in which the Department of Territories and Sustainability of Mr Calvet has done a whole series of actions. Therefore, this is a great paradox, and we must tell them that, please, they stop harming the country and stop harming territories like the Ebre Delta with their internal government bars. Pretty much. We know there are elections, but the country doesn't deserve this. And if their governing partners don't convince them because of their plans– that they don't convince us– then, they escort, plant an alternate government. There are elections, after the elections planted an alternate government. But what you don't feel is doing this, and when they get out of this little hemlock, the first thing they do is making sure that you do or do in the own government, you will re-agree with the very members of the government, because that's what we all know they will do. So, for hypocrisy, please, in this sense. And I left it, too, the other thing that you do in this motion: demand a whole series of questions, as always, to the Government of the State. Questions that we agree with, and that is why we will vote for them. But, of course, it's that you think of us as if you don't have any responsibility here. It's all about the State or the Councils of Junts for Catalonia. Home, so no, no glue, you're also in this government. Mirin, it's been two years of the strong aguadotes that have caused great stars to the Lands of the Ebre. The Council of Ministers approved, in the year 2019, a presupposition of almost 7_million euros in aid for the Lands of the Ebro, a presupposition that the Generality had to distribute among the affected assemblies. Notwithstanding this, this week we learned that the Government of the Generality has drafted such complex bases that what they have done is that many consistors have not been able to access these aids, although they had been approved by the Government of the State. Thus, together with Alcanar, they lost up to EUR 3 million to repair bad roads for the storm, and in total lost EUR 4.6 million from the state, which were approved, which were there, but did not reach their destination. What do you have to say to these joints? That they're following us, too, surely, live, aren't they? , many of which, of course, ruled for yourselves, for the Republican Left. Do you think you'll make up for it or don't you think you'll make up for it? It's that, look, what it can't be is to demand everything from the state government, but at the same time to leave the empty chair in concert spaces, giving up defending Catalonia's interests there where it plays, and then, when resources arrive from the state, to lose them in this way as they have done. I know it's hard, but it seems to me, Mrs Fornos, that we won't preserve the Ebre Delta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of MP Jordi Terrades, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units for Progress, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.84.0	Vice-President, Councillor, Members, Members, I do not discover anything again, other Members have said, that the Ebro Delta is a very, very delicate area of physical balance, has a high environmental value and at the same time is the territorial matrix on which important economic interests are projected. It is an area that is under the erosion process that affects the entire Spanish coast, especially the Mediterranean, which is aggravated in this case by the decrease in the contribution of sediments to the regulation of the Jew, the subsidity, the rise of the sea level and a greater frequency of the intensity of the storms, caused, in good part, also by the phenomena of the climate change, which we have here. Therefore, the management of the Delta is a complex management that will need and need balance, right? , to combine all these functions that the Delta brings us. In these moments, the provisional outline of important themes of the Ebro hydrographic demarcation is already in public consultation in order to make, among other questions, the delta of the Ebro and its coast more resilient, and to guarantee the survival of its social and environmental values. This document includes a series of Delta-oriented measures, following the work and recommendations developed for the Delta Consensus Table, and also for the recommendations of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. This strategy must allow us to make a real diagnosis of the situation, both from the physical point of view, the environmental point of view, from the biodiversity, from the economic point of view, from the social point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view of view of view of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of view of What's the point, too, huh? Plant those actions that are necessary to implement all this follow-up of policies, solutions that need to be comprehensive, that are consistent with each other and that do not follow side-by-side actions. The Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Ecological Transition, once these documents, which have already been presented to the table of consensus in a meeting that was produced last week............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I believe that all the actions that are taking place at these times show the unequivocal will, the clear will, the commitment of the Government of Spain to the better functioning of the Delta, with the necessary cooperation and collaboration with the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, I believe that it cannot be otherwise, to harmonize all the conservation and recovery policies of the main functions and environmental services that the Delta brings to us. And also a clear commitment of the Government of Spain to provide economic resources to make these policies effective, which I believe will already have a reflex in the presupposition of the year 2021, and which I hope some groups of the chamber that have recently, therefore, did not give it their support, this time yes, give support to these presuppositions. And, speaking of money, to demand more than the Government of the Generalitat invested the 6_millions of euros that thanks to a socialist slogan we approved in the assumptions of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And remind him that they also have 6_million European Feder funds that should be allocated to the Ebre Delta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congressman Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.86.0	Thank you, Members and Councillor Calvet, thank you for being here. The Ebre Delta motion, really... the primary sector has only come out in the title and in the interpellation. Apparently the proponent group wanted to give a window of opportunity to Councilwoman Jordà, but then the theme goes on another department, but good. This motion to be adopted today is more important than it seems. Firstly, because of the content of its seven points and because it can serve as a road map for this Government and for those who come after it. It is also important to put on top of the current table the imminent need to work in the Delta. And finally, it's also important because it shows that the Delta's problems are not from now on. The Delta has long been outside the priorities of all administrations. To clarify concepts, what happens to the Delta? Like all deltas, it is naturally formed by the accumulation of sediments in the mouth, but the man arrives with reservoirs, with retention of flows, retention of sediments, cultivation of every palm of land, canals, acechias, are built sports ports that alter the marine currents and the drag of sands, and above the climate change, that rises the level of the sea, does not help a little, and less with the virulent atmospheric phenomena that we are seeing. What's wrong with the Delta? Well, he's falling back and his share is getting lower. Regression and subsidence, so if we want to preserve the Delta as we know it, we must urgently correct this situation. Delta people are witnessing how the coast line has gone down year after year, but they are also witnessing the abandonment by the administrations. Large projects to protect the Delta do not materialize, and in part it is understandable, but not justifiable. They are costly and complex projects, and, as a conclusion, other things are prioritized. Well, it looks like the time for the Delta has come. Climate change or a greater social concern for environmental issues, a greater awareness from the territory, a new perception that bell battles do not lead anywhere and the idea that we either do something among all or we will continue to do the same no, worse... Therefore, from Citizens we see so important the creation of the Consensus Table for the Delta, and that it will finally be reflected in this motion. Because the preservation of the Delta is the responsibility of all, of those who live there, of visitors and of society as a whole, of Catalan society, of Spanish society and of European society, because the importance of this piece of land won to the Mediterranean is of world order. And I'm going to give you an example. Recently, a year ago and a peak, a serious problem was detected with a species, the nacra, which is a kind of mussel, about sixty, eighty_centimeters, precious, but that it is disappearing by a parasite that is carrying it, and we only have two populations: one, in the Manga of the Sea Minor and the other, in the bays of the Delta. I mean, if we don't preserve the Delta, we're also gonna be responsible for this species of the planet disappearing. This is an anecdote, but it's no less. Any change that can unbalance the Delta..., that is, any change that is made in the Delta can unbalance the entire deltaic system. Therefore, let us look and work with consensus. That is why I do not understand why the proponents have not accepted one of the amendments of the Citizens' Group. I consider it essential not to resign ourselves to the advance of the coast line. We asked the Generalitat to aim to maintain the current line and not to let the sea advance further; this is what is called maintaining the morphological status quo of the Delta. In rejecting this, is the government not going to try to stop the regression? Are you going to resign to keep going back? We can't lose one more palm of Delta. But this motion is super good. Esquerra is concerned about the Delta; I see the headlines: « Esquerra is the parliamentary group that is most concerned. But this government of yours, of Esquerra too, has let 4,6_million_of_euros escape from state aid to the municipalities. This government, also formed by Esquerra, has at its stand by EUR 6_million for urgent Delta measures. What are you waiting for? It's for urgent action. Come on. Does Esquerra have to complain through a motion to the territorial council that is being spent? If they are also government, are they not government? They just have to get to work. What I see is that there is a date, February 14, which already seems to want to demarcate a government partner from another government partner. Moreover, the chronic under-financing situation of Terres de l'Ebre is also the responsibility of this Government. The investments of the Government of the Generalitat in the regions of Ebre are the lowest in Catalonia. If we add this to the money we let go, then badly. To finish... please, the motions are very good and we will give our support, of course, but they act. Don't let more opportunities escape; motions yes, projects, too. And we don't leave our children a Delta smaller than our parents had. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word is now made by MP Mònica Sales of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.88.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, a hug of affection and support to all the people who have known these days the feelings, some feelings that show the judicial arbitrariness that we live day after day, and to you, esteemed companion Lluís Guinó, you know that honor is ours. We are debating today a motion on the importance of the Ebre Delta to the primary sector. A young woman who is the result of an inquiry to the agricultural councilwoman, Teresa Jordan. It's been a long time since the eyes of the Ebre Lands have remorse and alerted them to the vulnerable situation that our Delta sees and suffers, a delta that is not only important because it follows home and because it follows the largest wet zone in Catalonia, but also that it is the second most important wet zone in the Western Mediterranean; a delta with a primary sector that certainly has some difficulties that the Department of Agriculture knows, and that also knows the Government, but that, despite everything, it is alive and wants to continue working to continue to feel a source of wealth, of rich production, but also of gastronomy, tourism, social and cultural. The Ebre Delta needs a clear and non-cracked full route representing all the agents involved and bringing together diverse sensitivities: people and municipalities, the Government of the Generality, the Government of the State and the different visions of joining our territories around the river and the Delta to bring together the leadership we need. And it is that the Delta needs consensus, a consensus that remains real, that allows us to design short, medium and long-term actions to reverse already some of the situations that we hardly have marked for climate change, regression, completeness or subsidence. We must age for this fragility and we must do so from a holistic, global point of view, because we cannot forget that this area is inhabited by people who want to continue developing their life plan and who do not want to be "the first climate refugees in Europe, carrying the words of Xavier Curto, spokesman for the Delta Consensus Table". Consent. I have said this before, and from Juntes per Catalunya we will repeat it many times as necessary: consensus with the Delta Consensus Table, with the Commission for the Sustainability of the Lands of the Ebre, institutional and territorial consensus, also with the movement led by the Platform in defense of the Ebre, to protect the Delta and the river, a river that must be of quality or yes and with full majors. But also consenting to the Ministry for the Ecological Transition of Minister Ribera, to whom the Honourable Councillor Damià Calvet – following the master's degree of legitimate councillor Josep Rull – has questioned on various occasions to urgently formalize a mixed commission. And thank you, Counselor, for being here today in this debate, despite the fact that it is not the result of a direct inquiry into your department. In the Senate, recently, together for Catalonia we achieved unanimity because an urgent plan is being prepared against the regression of the Delta, with the presence of the Generality and the people and municipalities. But, even with this vote, the demand for a bilateral or mixed commission did not prosper and the government is making a mistake that could be reflected in the finding that will ultimately be the fruit of Councillor Calvet's insistence because this plan that they say they need to be shared and zealously; with consensus, again. Because we have to invest the resources we have, like the 6_million euros of the current fiscal year, and we don't have to find ourselves. All of it. But it is also important that the resources that are invested from the Generality to provide sediments, as experts from the Department of Geography of the URV also point out today, for example, or to sail for biodiversity, have the coordination that the territory needs. We know that the most progressive government in history finds it difficult to accept the legitimacy of the government when it is to be dealt with bilaterally, but the territories, the Lands of the Ebre and its Delta deserve to be done jointly with the Delta Consensus Table, a table that, fortunately, does work – not with others – and with whom we meet. Consent, and I will not tire of repeating it, consent here in Catalonia, also among parliamentary groups, and especially among those who support the government, and consent with all the administrations that we can work for the Delta and the river, because we know, and we know it, that if the river and the Delta do not understand one thing, it is partyism or electoral campaigns or election calls. Hence, from here my thanks to the mayor of Ràpita, Amposta or Camarles, yes, but also to Deltebre, to the Village, to Sant Jaume and to the Ampola. The Jews know that the Hebrew delta needs a solution because it can't wait any longer, and it's a consensual and immediate action plan. That is why we will vote favorably for all points of the House today – discussed, negotiated and commented on – with good predisposition to all sides, with the will to remain on the side of the Lands of the Jews and all their territorial reality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To finish the round, has the word now the MP Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.90.0	Good morning, all of you. To begin with, we'll give support to all points. And we congratulate the honourable Member, because, indeed, I believe that the objectives of the inquiry and the motion will be satisfied: to have a headline in which he says that the Republican Left places on the table the import of the Delta to the primary sector, nothing more. We don't support him for this, we support him because we understand that the points he raised are correct, they are necessary, they are questions that have been placed on the table in the territory. But it is curious: with all the people who preceded me, if I am not mistaken, and the word "transvasion" has not been said, and we are talking about the Hebrew. Many of the issues that are important and priorities have been raised on the table, but no one has mentioned the transfer. And it is obvious that they have not talked about the transfers because from the Spanish State there is no compromise with the defense of the Jew, because in August the Council of Ministers authorized a new water transfer of 4.99 cubic hectares to Cantàbria, and, at the same time, the Catalan Government signed a transfer of water to the Barberà Conca to supply us, against, including, the same entities in defense of the water of the territory, which say that there are other lives to give response to the need for water. Mirin, the Delta, we know – for the knowledge of the people of the territory, for the knowledge of the experts – needs water and sediments – water and sediments. « Neither a land nor a litre of water, « The laugh is life, « No to the transshipment. What can't be done is mass and replicant, Mrs. Fornos. The Republican Left cannot be told that the Delta is a priority for the primary sector at the same time that – and it is very hard for me – it does not accept such simplistic considerations as to show that this Parliament is against the transfer of the Barberà Basin or that it wants to start working for the dissolution of the CAT and to lay out alternatives; therefore, to propose an alternative to the model and to the water culture. Look, like we're talking about water and sediment, which is what the Jew needs, he remembers, right? Obviously, this image – they know it much better than I do, especially the people who are from the Jews. [[The speaker shows the chamber an image.]] The blau is used to being the color with which the water is represented. The symbol here is a nude in a canonada. The canonades are the ones that make the transfers possible. Therefore, priority to save the Jew. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. To the impulses for the government of the PSOE and Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.91.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.92.0	...and also not to the transfers driven by the Government of the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.93.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.94.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.95.0	In the last place, to fix the position, has the word now the deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.96.0	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, let's announce that we're giving support to the young lady. But I'd like to have a very brief reflection. It has been years since the approval of the National Hydrological Board, seven years since its derogation; the sediment problem has not been solved; the ecological board guarantees the whole year, neither, and the regression, worse than ever. I'm saying, basically, because they've been saying it for years. In this single we have held tripartite governments – seven years –; we carry a decade with this government – Together for Catalonia, PDECAT Convergence, etc. The problem is not solved. I also say this because, of course, one thing is transvasion, another thing was the national hydrological plate, which carried measures that were not strictly transvasion. But once the transfer was ruled out, which is clear to everyone – in fact, the People's Party ruled four years with an absolute majority and did not do so, it ruled out – something had to be done – something had to be done. Because we carry motions and motions and motions, and it turns out that in Catalonia, with the skills they have, it has not been absolutely right. Because we carry dwindle and mediate with trickery of 'The laugh is life, with posters, but it turns out that the problem is not solved – dwindle and mediate. And the transfer is completely discarded, I repeat, because the People's Party ruled with an absolute majority and ruled it out. So here someone takes on their own responsibilities, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Irene Fornós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.98.0	Thank you again, Vice President. Counselor... First of all, donate the thanks to the groups that will support the movement. In the intervention before, I couldn't do it to talk about the papers. And to comment on some of the things that have been mentioned here, that you have preceded me. And it's that there's one basic thing, in the sense of a few points of the young man, and it's that the cost competitions have them by the State; the competitions in the management of the river have them by the State, and it's the State that will now have the money to be able to protect the Delta. And, as I said in my intervention, if the Ebre Delta has an opportunity to perform all the protective actions it is now, it is now that the Government of the State can and must allocate European funds to do everything that it has not done for decades, and we think this opportunity cannot be lost. In any case, as I have already commented before, thank all groups for the transactions, the different items that we have been able to go along with. I think there's been a lot of talk about consensus and I think this young man with this support from all the parliamentary groups shows that consensus, a consensus that we celebrate with the will, right? We all want to add up there, we all want to work there and make the move every time more and more consistent to get it to the different institutions. That said, I wouldn't want to expand much longer. Simply, therefore, thank all your contributions and, in any case, yes, comment on this: we propose to make a committee for the protection of the Ebro Delta, a committee that we think will also be able to talk about other issues that have also been discussed in this House today; other issues that we may consider in this House that require much more study, much more detail. And that, in any case, you realize that the soon-to-be legislature will end, we do, don't we? , that the groups that support this young man, which also includes this committee of study, take the compromise so that in the next legislature the committee of study for the protection of the Delta follows a reality, and among all that we have this will: once the legislature has begun, be of the first things that we have become from the table. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.99.0	Thank you. Finished this point, the record that the vote, like the rest, will be after the question of point 7, together with the rest. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of tourism]] [[302-00244/12]] We now turn to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the situation of tourism, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.100.0	Thank you very much. Counselor... Well, the other day, in the inquiry, he was talking about the necessary pedagogy that had to be done in order to fight against the phobia tourism that had unfortunately been installed in the political discourse of a substantial part of the political forces in Catalonia, a phobia tourism that defined as "absolutely suicide", having seen that tourism represents 12_percent of the Catalan GDP; a phobia tourism that had manifested itself in the policies of Ada Colau in Barcelona, with those manifestations of the tourists go home, with the speech of "Spain kills us, somehow also. It's not the best way to attract and generate sympathies in the inner tourist market, which today's hours is very important to us, and it's going to follow as I continue the pandemic. And even less needed a speech in which, sweeping concepts in a mature way, it was given to understand that tourism, restoration, so, in general, had little innovation and little added value, posing absolutely demagic examples about the sound of a concrete chamber, and not talking about the fact, for example, that our restoration and our hotels are a world example of innovation and that the Barcelona brand, the Catalonia brand and the Spanish brand have benefited from this innovation in a very special way. From here, the young lady... you have her. We're talking about the strategy in Catalonia for the new situation we're living in. In this sense, I thank Mr. Mascarell for his thoughts. I could not accept one, basically, for a reason: the vast majority of them were to replace – it is a classic in the terms of this Parliament –: instead of "promoting, therefore, "maintaining, no? Don't worry, she's ugly. Sometimes we accept these points, but I don't think they're responding to the young man's experience right now, because what we're planting is not keeping the strategy, it's referring to it; so, because it has to be new. The internationalisation plan needs to be re-established, the airline strategy needs to be re-established, the digitalisation plan needs to be re-established. So we just couldn't accept one, number 7, and the rest, no. In the case of claims to the Government of Spain, normally we... always, even at the time that the People's Party governs, we accept them. For example, if you're talking about a road. But here's exactly the same thing: don't adjust the exams to the young man's experience. For one reason, because right now it is not a matter of saying what the Spanish Government has to do, concretely, but as we redefine, here in Catalonia, the strategy. We are also talking about tax cuts, in the words I raised in the inquiry, and the search for European foundations. And finally, insisting on the same idea that I moved to the day of the inquiry, I think that, in the band of the toilets that Mr. Tremosa planted for his dramatic actions in Brussels, I liked the speech that he made in strictly touristic terms. And, therefore, I also enjoyed the fact that we recognized, therefore, that there had sometimes been a speech on tourism that was not good for Catalonia, and that this had to be corrected. Therefore, we were able, among others, to correct this direction and to promote an absolutely strategic sector for the Catalan economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, there is now the first word, the MP Aurora Carbonell, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Republicà. One second. Mr Fernández, you have the word now for the Member to speak. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I've already given the word to her. Then, when she's finished, I can give it to her, for the sake of order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Then you have a screw, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.102.0	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.103.0	Forward, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.104.0	Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies. Well, we... now, by listening to him, I don't know if he would change his mind, because in the beginning we agreed with the young man, with the young man's background, if we were to be at the side of the tourism sector, because we're at a very complicated time. Therefore, we are largely in agreement. It is true that we think that there are many things that are already being done, that is why we want to maintain, and it is also true that there are two points that we cannot support, that are those that make reference to air lines, and also those that talk about European foundations, basically, because we do not agree with how they are planted. But the summary of the young man, who speaks above all of giving support to the tourist sector, in this case, we are absolutely in agreement. It's been a very complicated, very difficult time. There's a lot of uncertainty in the future. It has a very complicated winter, where the MICE tourism, the tourism of meetings and congresses, are falling apart. And, therefore, it is a moment that we understand that we all need to be on the side of this sector that we need so much and that we need all our support. So, obviously, we are, because there are already political forces in this area; there have been, for a long time, and we are on the side of tourism, with the priority above all of working to overcome the current moment, to regain confidence, especially of internal tourism, to coordinate with all local administrations, thinking long term, maintaining the plans of internationalization, working better on connectivity, but obviously, adapting them also to the difficulties or facilitated displacements, promoting digitization, mentoring and everything that makes reference to this young man. Let me make it clear, yes, that our project has nothing to do with that of the People's Party. The bases of the tourism model that the Popular Party has, for example, such as the Marina d'Or fracă, this masseicacion tourism, this speculative tourism, with which we are absolutely against..., and which now more than ever, above all, can defend the tourism of sustainability and responsibility. But not to talk about ‘sustainability tourism' as an empty word, as has sometimes been said about ‘quality tourism', which sometimes does not mean anything, but what we are talking about is preservation, preserving the territory, preserving culture, traditions of those tourist destinations. In short, preserve the identity of the place. Tourism should not be engulfed, what it should do is share; sustainable tourism is what it wants to make a much better future possible for the next generations. Therefore, a responsible tourism on a basis of economic, environmental, cultural and social sustainability. If we do this, this model will be much more resilient to face the crisis. So sometimes we don't have to talk so much about changing the tourism model, but maybe we have to change the concept of tourism, which is sometimes a little more difficult. When you talk about tourism, or when you talk about tourism that is better or worse, we don't have to talk about tourism that is good, bad, the one that leaves benefits or the one that upsets us. Maybe we're talking a lot more about people's mobility and we're going to talk more about people's temporary residence, because it's so touristic that it's going to sunbathe like it's going to a meeting, like it's six months ago making teletreball in another place. So, let's talk about these temporary residents, let's talk a lot more about that tourism is also a social enrichment, an enrichment of interspersing cultures, and not a machine of making money or a machine of speculation. Above all, also talk about the young lady talking about the visitor, who left himself very abandoned. The visitor is the one who does not spend the night, and can manage the work of what happens to visitors, which many times create many massiveities, but at the same time it is also a synonym of great economic activity. Therefore, it is also necessary to work not only the tourist, but also the visitor. And, finally, they also talk about the tourist tax, in which we think that now, in Covid's time, it is a good time to rethink the destination of these moneys that in the immediate future could go straight to reverse all the economic suffering of companies. So, we, I mean, I totally support at some very complicated moments that tourism is going through, but we also innovate and seek, above all, formulas to benefit all of us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words of Congressman Ferran Mascarell of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.106.0	Well, good noon. Mr President, Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernández, well, it is indisputable that our tourist sector, the Catalan tourism sector, is experiencing an exceptional, dramatic situation, we could say. It was impossible to predict it. It is indeed one of the most affected sectors at the level of Catalonia, at the level of the State, at the international level for the Covid-19, and has devastating effects for businesses, families, workers, the general economy of the country. That's a fact, I don't really want to talk about it. It is true that all this involves an exceptional situation, and an exceptional situation surely calls for exceptional answers. In today's motion, for example, we could have called for an exceptional response, as it would be, for example, if the Spanish State had reacted like the French State, making 18,000_million available to the tourism sector. Therefore, at the disposal of the Government of Catalonia, 3,600_millions, approximately, that would have served because this model that the Government of Catalonia has been pushing for a long time, maintaining businesses, renewing aspects such as digitalization and, above all, strengthening an intelligent and sustainable tourism model, which this could have continued with the breadth of the foundation that the exceptional situation required. That's what was good for today and what would have been good for tomorrow – it's to say, solve today and, more importantly, don't compromise tomorrow – a touristic, intelligent and sustainable model in all the aspects that the sustainable word implies. There are exceptional measures, which is what the Government of Catalonia is demanding, it is facing, an exceptional situation, and it is making it alone, as is often always, in the field of state policies. It's a shame that this aspect doesn't lie on his face. Surely they do not plant it because you, like probably all, recognize that the Spanish State is not the French, it is a state..., so probably one of the worst states in Europe at the time of giving response to the Covid, and it is not even known that exceptional solutions can be found to a demand of the tourist sector as it is occurring, and, for another band, necessary. You've made a joke with the lady before that they couldn't listen to us. No, no, With this you have practiced the WhatsApp policy, which is: we make a plan and you answer to a WhatsApp saying: "We can't accept them king. Negotiation and debate didn't really happen. I don't know if this is the policy that's behind this season, but, anyway, it's what they've also expressed in this assumption. Well, go ahead, therefore, that whatever you say at the end of the proposal, 'putting on the road, which is more than usual, we are going to keep or continue, and, from this point of view, therefore, we believe that the tourist policies that the department is setting up with the councillor at the head are the ones that this country needs, always ill-equipped from the point of view that the State should provide and does not provide the Government of Catalonia. On some concrete aspects, then, we agree that the speech of the religious tourism has done us a great deal wrong; it is obvious that they have done us a great deal wrong. And, in this sense, therefore, the political leadership of this type of anti-tourism ideology has poorly been practiced by the Barcelona City Government, and has remained very negative, extraordinarily negative. It is also obvious that there have been other negative things. Believe that it has no positive tourist dimension for them. I wouldn't have said that, would I? But I quote from that that you mentioned other considerations of general character. Obviously, the Generalitat is already coordinating with the other administrations and collaborates in all kinds of support with the Barcelona City Council. Obviously, the Generalitat promotes measures to regain confidence in the international tourism market, and so much so that you do not have this obsession that you have with the international policies of the Generalitat, which would surely facilitate that this is done even with better quality. On AENA, we would abstain them, because we believe that the problem, basically, is of differentiated management of airports: a tariff policy and of added incentives that do not allow us, precisely, for state policies. We share the idea that we need to make an investment in digitalisation, and we obviously agree that we need to take advantage of European foundations. So good that these European foundations are made available to the Government of Catalonia so that it can do the policies it needs. Honestly, we would have liked to vote on the aspects of your young lady with more conviction. He doesn't say anything new, but to make him look at the tourist sector, so, for the most part, the Republican Left representative mentioned it before, so we'll look at them. Another time, they allow us to discuss a little more on the ground, and certainly – and certainly – we will agree. What this country needs are agreements and not indefinite policies from the point of view of what application can be on the part of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix the position, has the first word, the deputy Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Today's debate is sadly significant. We are debating today, for the first time I remember, a motion that calls on the Government to improve policies for the tourism sector, and it does so on the return of the summer period, of the summer campaign. The crisis of the Covid has gripped one of the engines of our economy, which accounts for 12_percent of GDP and 14_percent of the occupation in Catalonia, and which according to Exceltur its level of activity today is equivalent to 1995 levels. Already in June the INE published semi-annual data regarding visitors in free fall of 97_per_cent compared to the same month last year. Also as far as tourist spending is concerned, the decrease was 98.5_per_cent, so you can imagine what that figure has meant for our shops, bars, restaurants, leisure facilities and, of course, for our hotels. In August, although Catalonia was the Spanish community that received the most tourists, with 3.2_million visitors, made a difference with August 2019 of 10_million tourists. Our hotels still do not show signs of recovery in terms of occupancy, and according to statements by Gremi d'Hotelers de Barcelona, only 30_per_cent of the hotels remain open, but with irritating occupations, and warn that closures will continue after knowing the latest restrictions. The situation, therefore, is becoming absolutely dramatic for the preservation of jobs and for the economy. Turijobs, for example, published that 80_per_cent of tourism professionals are in an ERTE. With a lost Holy Week campaign, and summer, which has been practically non-existent..., as non-existent has also been international tourism, on which Catalonia depends to a large extent. Today we are losing practically also the Christmas campaign: the constant drip of cancellations and postponements of major events... However, we must be aware that the debate that we have here today on the tourism sector is urgent. It is true that the tourism sector has historically been naught by the Administration, I believe even irresponsiblely clumsy. The strategic plans have not been implemented, which are late, and when they have arrived they are out of date. No determined work has been done on new tourism models. No significant actions have been seen in attracting investment. No digitisation plan has been developed to provide information on flows and densities that would have been particularly beneficial for cultural tourism. It has not been innovative in cultural tourism, neither family, nor innovative oenological, or gastronomic, or autocaravaning, which had already been trending, related to new consumption habits. The options for access to European funds are not optimised and reported efficiently. No serious work has been done on labour inspection in order to assess and act against job insecurity. They haven't taken care of our image and allowed for phobic tourism attacks. Nothing is being executed and nothing has been implemented in recent years, because the Government does not comply with what has been approved in recent years in this same plenary room. But there are things they do. They do raise taxes. That's what you did in the last budgets, raise the tourist rate, although then you half disdain because you yourselves fall into the account of how unfair that rise is. Very little serious, moreover, because they do so without knowing very well why or for what, because they have never invested courageously in tourist policies, and have never been transparent with tax collection. They close bars and restaurants without night entertainment aids, and all this without health data that truly endorse it. Now they say that anyway, if the curfew..., with the curfew just like they open again. You don't plan, and you don't let anyone plan. Zero planning, as I tell you, improvisation and uncertainty, this is the worst cocktail for job conservation and economic activity. These ideas that I was commenting on are many proposals that we have been putting forward here, which have been approved in this very House and which have fallen into a broken bag, and which I am very much afraid that the motion of the People's Party will run the same fate. However, wishing to be mistaken, we will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The word now has the deputy Rafel Bruguera, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.110.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, councillor, good morning. In the specific plenary session on the Covid, my parliamentary group put forward specific proposals for a resolution on tourism, which were approved, and one of them was that it was a serious study, a detailed study of how the tourist season had gone. Because it's very easy to put it all in the same bag, but it didn't behave the same as the interior tourism as the platja tourism. And among the platja tourism either behaved in the same way those municipalities that are based, to hear us, on the car tourism respect to which they are based on the plane tourism, to simplify it. And, therefore, this is an intuition that this Member has, but it seems to me that from a more accurate point of view, more of a first line, more of a real view of how the tourist season went together, we could draw some interesting conclusions. Precisely, because the resources, which are always limited, which are destined for recovery are well-destined and well-destined and with clear objectives, and not putting it all in the same bag. As far as the young man is concerned, we will vote in favour of all points, except one. Of all the points, although, for example, the 1.b point we may have written it in another way, but in any case, as we have not presented the point, we would vote in favour. On the other hand, at point 2.i, which is the point that talks about the state tax in tourist establishments, we will vote against it. We will vote against it because what we interpret from what you say the point – if we are wrong, we ask Mr. Fernández that we clarify it and, in any case, we can change our position..., but what we interpret is that for the year 20 and 21 is not covered, it is not worth the tax, and therefore the tourists do not pay this tax. That's what we're playing. We can't agree with this position. What we believe is that the tax on stays in tourist establishments is an appropriate tax, and another thing is that it does not apply, as it is already granted, the increase provided in the Law of fiscal and financial measures, and that it also comes down or is fractional the self-liquidations to help the sector, and that, therefore, it is possible to pay, it is possible to enter the self-liquidations with a few months or a year of delay. In this we do agree; with what we do not agree is in the elimination. If this is the position of this point, we will vote against it. If it weren't for that, I'd like to see Mr. Fernández's statement, because of the positions of the representatives of the Government, of Esquerra and of Juntes for Catalonia, I haven't been clear about his position either, and I'd be surprised if I voted in favour of this point if I really had this point that you say or want to say is what I've said. But let's get out of the way, there have been a lot of tourism protests, and there have been a lot of approvals. And it has already been said here – my partner Assumpta Escarp also said this morning in a previous motion –: the problem is not the lack of initiatives on the part of parliamentary groups; the problem is that we have a government that is not in the past, that is deaf to the things that this Parliament agrees with. That's the problem. And while that's the case, hardly – hardly – we can think that the work we do as leaders of the Government is effective, and I said it in the previous plenary in a motion on culture: it is that they do not complete those points or those motions to which you vote in favour. That's the problem. And finally, and I'm done, whether Mr. Alejandro Fernández or I'm done, huh? , Vice-President– in the papers he has laid out some of the papers that Esquerra Republicana and Junts plant for Catalonia, he would practically be a unionist. Practically. Evil Catalans, going against the competitions of the Generalitat. Because it's all centrifuge – it's all centrifuge. And, look, if in anything we have competitions, frankly, it's not just in tourism, but in tourism promotion, for something we have a proper tax, which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.111.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.112.0	...is the tax on stays in tourist establishments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.113.0	Thank you. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.114.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members and Members, I will divide my intervention into two parts: one in commenting on your motion and the other in commenting on your speech about the motion, because I think there are significant differences. We in the House practically at all points support it. We would also ask for clarification on point 2.i, because we have not just heard the consequences of approval for how it is written. The first question is fundamental: is tourism a key economic sector for our society? And the answer is obviously a 'yes'. And it is a key sector for our society as much for the GDP it generates, more than 10_per_cent, as it is for the occupation of the sector and the families that depend on it in Catalonia, as well as the properties of peppers, micro-peppers, employees, fixed discontinuous workers, self-employed... We know that it is a poorly structured sector productively and that there have been many different labor and business realities, but it is a key sector, and it is a key sector that has obviously failed. It has failed this year in a dramatic way, that is to say, I do not think it is comparable to more sectors of our economy: it has lowered by 80_per_cent the foreign expenditure, by 90_per_cent the tourist expenditure of the rest of the State. And, obviously, this requires intervention from public administrations. We after dinar asked about tourism, and, therefore, I will point out some things, but I would like to point out with at least three; public intervention is needed in three directions. The first, to save the touristic fabric of our country, which, obviously, has failed, and this happens, in our opinion, in three areas. The first is to reduce the structural costs of companies that do not currently have tourism activities in our country, but that lower the blind and see how they are unable to stop generating losses. And, therefore, all the peppers, the micro-entrepreses that have this structural problem, that they lower the blind and do not stop losing money, all have a date of closure in their heads. When am I gonna end up shutting down? When will we end up failing if the sector is not reactivated? And it seems to be going slower than expected in a principle. For us this goes through different measures. The first, obviously, that of the ERTOs, which have helped to reduce wage costs to many companies in this country. The second, recently approved, the reduction of local logger costs for many companies in this country, the possibility of negotiating reductions of up to 50_per_cent. Obviously, good news. There is the question of the moratorium on the tourist tax. We do not overly share the wording, but we understand that if the payment of the tourist tax puts in crisis some business of this country, it will have to establish moratoria, and nothing passes to set it up, and nothing passes to put it on the table, and it will have to be the public administration that assumes those tasks that are done through the collection of the tourist tax, because they are still needed in our country. And I think we'll have to think more about it, because I think the first intervention we did was: we'll lose Holy Week, but we'll get the summer campaign back, and so many companies that have problems now, we guarantee them a short-term intervention, but then they'll have a summer campaign. There was no summer campaign. Now we're on Nadal's campaign. Let's hope there is, but maybe there isn't. And, therefore, this cost-cutting intervention will have to go further and we will have to present battles to reduce costs, for example, of the energy sub-administrations of many companies, which are structural costs, and which do not allow them to lower the blind and to be zero or very close to zero at the cost level. Second, guarantee liquidity, and I want to make a dent in this. Many lines of prestec were also removed. We'll have to start thinking about moratoriums on official Generality credits, the ICF, the ICO, etc., because we may find ourselves in the situation that the forecasts do not accompany. And direct aid to the sector for a matter of substance, along with direct aid. We need to start thinking about this country's income policies. We'll have a drop in returns in this obvious country that will be a daltabaix in the socio-economic structure of this country. And that means starting to think of complementary assistance to the termination of self-employment and the end-of-life benefit in this country, because many workers are precarious, low wages, fixed discontinuities, intermittent work continuity in our country, and it will start to complement returns, because we will have a downside. And the second question, and I'm running out of time, but I wouldn't want to miss it. What you call 'fóbia tourism', which is the criticism of the touristization of the cities in this country. He lived in Catalonia, and lived in many cities in Europe. It is also time to take advantage of European foundations to rebuild the tourism sector on a new model that is more decentralized, more seasonal, less massive and of better quality and more sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.116.0	Thank you, Vice-President; to speak from the escó. First of all, we would like to dispel practically everything that has been said in the previous interventions, because there is a subject that for us is fundamental, that is not being addressed, that is the systemic crisis with the effects of Covid-19; as they have implacably affected the tourism sector, they pose an absolutely different reality. And that no one thinks he'll ever be like before. Tourism won't be like before. Luckily and badly, because it expresses the two realities, and therefore, for us, this also expressed an opportunity, an opportunity to reverse to what were the negative externalities of tourism, but that of the speeches and the motion that will be approved today, we see that it will not be so. And we want to highlight another issue. That the People's Party present what it is presenting in this youth is consistent with what they have practiced in recent years in relation to tourism. But the groups of the Government are not different in anything, neither in the speech nor in the vote they will make, in relation to what the People's Party is proposing, and, therefore, first evidence. We, as a minimum, hoped that there would be minimal differentiation, and in the vote it will not be expressed. Look, we're not for this model. Certainly, today it is not voting on tourism, it is essentially voting on this tourism model, which is a different thing, but that we are not for this model does not mean that we do not have policies determined by tourism. And the first thing we raise is the need to reverse everything that has been the trinxation of the territory and policies that have also caused the mistreatment of the environment resulting from the overexploitation of tourism. And the second, and it is essential, is a plan of restructuring and conversion of the tourism sector. This must be essential for what will come in short. And that goes for a band to relocate the workers and the workers, assuming that we will not maintain the same level of tourism of the past few years, and therefore go to protect the workers and the workers. Second question. Tourist accommodation is to be converted, mostly, to residential use. You haven't heard – we know what's going to happen – this can generate work for a band and we also act on what is going to be the exploitation of the territory in relation to urban speculation. Transform infrastructure and equipment. And when we talk about equipment, obviously, we also think that the Fira de Barcelona, which is complementary to tourism, has to have another use. And an interior tourism course. We will not give you names, whether or not it has to be quality tourism, we do not speak in these terms, but it does have to be a sustainable tourism with the territory and, for another band, wages or wages and quality working conditions. And lastly, no one has spoken about it, it would require a derogation from the tourism decree approved now a couple of months ago, August 4, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.118.0	Thank you. In the previous comment I also forgot to thank the Republican Group for the reviews. The first is to congratulate Mr Bruguera on his assurance, because he is quite right when he says that, finally, between independence and the totality of the Parliament and the Government of Catalonia there is a point between us, isn't there? Why, of course, if here it turns out that until independence doesn't come up, then well, independence doesn't come up, so it's not easy, is it? I believe that, precisely, in tourism – precisely, in tourism – the competitions are practically full, and therefore I believe that something should be done and that it was not centrifugal, as Mr Bruguera said, all the government action. Then, well, I congratulated him, and that makes me feel a little guilty, because I had the opportunity to deceive him and say that his interpretation of the wording, to try to get the positive vote..., but I have to say that I can't deceive him, I have to be honest. You have interpreted it correctly, and therefore I shall have to bear in mind that I do not have the support at this concrete point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, the record that this young man's vote is going to do together with the others at the end of late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its intended lack of transparency]] [[302-00247/12]] We now turn to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government about its intended lack of transparency, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.120.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Well, good afternoon, yeah, for the hours they are. Today we have a motion that talks about transparency or the government's intentional lack of transparency. Why do we describe it as an intention I will explain it a little later, but I would first like to dwell on the idea of 'transparency and how relevant transparency is, especially when we talk about the action being taken by a government, and a government which, unfortunately, has the background that we all know, not only the current government, but also, regrettably, the previous governments that we have had in Catalonia. We are living a very complicated moment – very complicated – with a pandemic that is doing a great deal of damage and which is further exacerbated by the situation, I insist, of disaffection and discredit that the political class was already going through. Why is there such a disaffection? Why that disbelief? Why that mistrust? For, precisely, for everything we have had to live here, in Catalonia, especially with issues of corruption. I would like to recall, for example, the situation of the former President of the Generalitat, Mr Jordi Pujol, and his entire family, accused of criminal organization. Several councillors also from the previous legislature, including the Transparency Councillor, Mr Romeva, condemned for misappropriation of public funds. The situation also in which Mr Figueras, the secretary of Esports, finds himself, who is also immersed in a possible case of corruption. I don't forget those emails either, let's say suspects, huh? Mrs. Laura Borràs. I do not want to go into judicial matters, but, at least, there are some mails in which Mrs Borràs acknowledged that thousands of euros of public contracts were being invented in order to favour a friend of hers. Nor do I forget Mr Osàcar's recent statements to the judge, where he claimed that Mr Artur Mas, also former President of the Generalitat, was aware of the « pitufeure of Democratic Convergence, of money laundering of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. It's a shame Mr. Batet wasn't here, that the other day he was a little crazy when he was talking about Convergence. He doesn't seem to know his name, but... because someone's gonna tell him it's that party that's convicted of illegal financing. All this has happened here in Catalonia, and I could go on and spend the time I have left talking about the corruption we have lived here. And why is transparency so necessary? Well, precisely because of all those cases of corruption. How do we avoid such corruption? Surrendering accounts, giving explanations. What is the problem with answering and giving the information requested by the opposition? They are rights that we have recognized in the Rules of Procedure, they are rights that we Members have recognized. Not for the sake of our curiosity, but simply because the government has to be accountable to the citizenry, because the Government of the Generalitat is at the service of the citizenry, and that is why we insist so much and we do... The other day the councillor explained that we have saturated the departments by asking questions. Of course, it is our job as the first party in Catalonia and as leaders of the opposition, and not only ours, but also of the other members of the opposition. How do we avoid such political disaffection? How do we prevent citizens from less and less trusting in politicians? Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. We have wanted to table a motion that I believe is a quite sensible motion. It does not propose any new transparency mechanism, because the mechanism already exists. The mechanism is set out in Parliament's own Rules of Procedure and absolutely nothing must be invented. What the government has to do is answer those questions. And when we say that the government is not transparent, that the government is opaque in this sense, it is not a subjective assessment that we make from Citizens, it is that we have the protection of the Bureau, it is that we have the protection of the body of guarantees of the right of access to information. Not one, not two, not three, but countless amparos in which even this body has urged the various departments of the Generalitat to give us that information, and yet they still do not give us that information. I am convinced that all the Members who are here today have felt identified with one of the points raised in paragraph 3 of our motion. What are the practices of this Government in failing to provide such information? So ask a question and don't be answered, or be answered out of time, that happens very often, when you know the importance of immediacy many times on political issues. And, for example, we have the example above the very clear table with the Covid. How are we going to be able to propose solutions if we do not have the data, if we do not handle the data? The data is handled by the Government, and it has a duty to make them available to us, and I insist, to all citizens. Sometimes they also answer in a way, because, so generic, they send you to websites. Three thousand school websites we had to consult with my education colleagues to find out if the language projects of the centers complied with the regulations or not. I wonder, did the department not have this information? If he had it, why didn't he give it to us? And if it does not, how can it ensure and ensure compliance with the regulations in educational institutions? With this motion – and I finish now, Vice-President – we intend, precisely, to end this abusive practice of opacity, and that citizens have the information and know what their money is being spent on and how the Government of the Generalitat manages those taxes. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Ferran Pedret, of the PSC Units Parliamentary Group to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.122.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians and Members, brings Ciutadans to a discussion of a motion subsequent to the inquiry that he made on questions relating to transparency in the exercise of government tasks and in relation to the control task, to the control function that the legislature has to exercise over the execution. And we have to say that we agree with the majority of the young lady – I am announcing it now so as not to forget it later –; in change, in the point of the set we will abstain. At the same time, we shall abstain because we want Parliament to have a commitment to finish some legislative work which seems difficult for us to do, if the legislative product is ultimately to be, let us say, of the quality and the rigour that is needed. It's not that we don't share the point that legislative tasks around protecting people who report cases of corruption or practical harm, but we think that, given the time that is expected to be left in the legislature, it's too risky to take this commitment and we don't want to fool anyone, right? With regard to the rest of the motion, we can actually feel identified – said Mrs Roldán – with some of the practices that are listed in the third point, if I don't make a mistake, right? Because that's what it is. From the start, there are questions that are structural, huh? , and which are not necessarily the responsibility of the Government, even though the Government may make a use of which allows it to make the Rules of Parliament that is not the most edifying. But it is true that Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide a time limit for answering written questions that are "non-non-non-members, that do not correspond to the rhythm at which information flows today or citizenship requires..., to have concrete data respecting things. And, therefore, this is a structural problem that would, in any case, potentially address with a timely reform of the Rules, which we are not in time to do in this legislature. Then there's the evasive answer. When one formulates a battery of questions on some concrete subject and, at least, with some derivative, let's say that it asks more specifically some information, the Government often answers that it answers all questions globally, but when one reads the material content of that answer, many of the questions, let's say, subsidies that someone had formulated with the battery are not answered. And, in fact, I think it has to be recognized that this is so, not so much because we say it to the parliamentary groups – that we could be doing, let's say, here an opposition task on the functions that Parliament has in control of the government, we could be exaggerating, right? – It's what the same Bureau of Parliament said when she gives to Members of Parliament, because she has acquired a certain reputation in the field of outsiders, Mrs Beltrán, right? But it's not the only one who's been taken over by Parliament's Bureau. And I think this believes that there is a problem beyond the questions that a parliamentary group can ask. Without going any further, the Table itself has given me the man that I remember now and can quote without lying – at least on one occasion, and also respect the same department. Therefore, I think that this should be taken into account, that it should also take into account what the organ that was created in this Parliament to guarantee access to public information, that it has also called attention on various occasions to the Government respect its lack of clarity in the answers given to the Member or in the fact that no access has been given to the information that was requested. And then there's another reflection that I also wanted to do around the type of response I sometimes give to the government, which is this question of remittance to open data websites, etc. There are times when it's true that data is theoretically available there. But I think that all Members know, and people who are experts in open data and transparency know, that as important as having raw information is the category of this information and the possibility of relating the information that is required between them. And that's not always available on the web page they send us, is it? And you've set an example that respects these three-thousand schools, but they could put much more. I myself in some answers found myself with this situation. And the deputies and deputies of this Parliament do not have the resources of those who do have the departments to categorize, relate and provide the information that has been requested, effectively, to those deputies and deputies who are representatives of the assembly of the citizens and citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, one of the two departments does their job and the government responds to what has been called for in relation to information, categorizing it and, therefore, feeling truly transparent and open, or giving more resources to parliamentary groups, which I already know is highly unpopular. But one of them has to do it to improve transparency and accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Concepción Abellán, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Pueblo. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.124.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, when you face a Citizens' motion, you always have the doubt whether this time it will be constructive or simply touches the empty and empty rhetoric of content that always feeds the process. In this case, we are dealing with proposals and complaints that are to a large extent shared by our group. It has not been once or twice that we have met with more than questionable answers from the Government. Part of our work is to ask questions, request information or request documentation of specific topics. But often the answers arrive badly and late after multiple extensions without concrete, without any doubt, with vague answers, throwing balloons out or the famous phrase 'we are working on it. In democracy, if a Member asks for explanations on a subject, by virtue of transparency and good governance, the Government is obliged to respond with concrete data. The more dangerous the issue is when the answers in Parliament are not in line with reality. And let's put a concrete example: Tarragona Hard Rock. In December the Government denied that public money would be put at risk in the Hard Rock project, but the published documents show that the Government would advance 80_per_cent with conditions of the operation that are draconian and humiliating for the Generalitat. And while we were learning about the news, we were waiting for ten months for Councillor Calvet and Aragonès to appear to explain why this operation took place and detail the terms of the sale and the completion of the contract. Or the case of the award promoted by the Department of Salut via urgency, without public contest, for 17,6_million, to Ferrovial to carry out the tracks of the Covid. When explanations were requested and the news skipped to the media, it was said that consideration would be given to reversing the award. I would say that the Government would thus award a company of Mr Florentino Pérez, of whom we have the infamous memory of the Castor project. No one explained or explained with light and tachographs why Ferrovial was awarded, and thus this contract, which we recall, remains in force. Compliance checks on motions and resolutions are often not compliance with what is passed in this Parliament, but rather a balance sheet of government action, and that is not it. It is a question of fulfilling what has been agreed in the Chamber of the highest representation of the citizens of Catalonia. Have they fulfilled all that has been approved in this chamber as a government? No, no, They've shown that they're only doing what's right for them. We agree that transparency is essential for the proper functioning of democratic institutions and their governments. Perhaps 'condemning' is not the most appropriate word, but'reproving how the Government stretches the rules when answering questions about its government action, extending deadlines, or drawing, as we always see, from the famous phrase that 'the fault is Madrid's in matters of direct competence. There are times when we don't look like Members. We are spared the information, and without it, we cannot fulfil our obligations as elected officials, which is to monitor government actions and also make proposals, which is what we have been voted for. We also believe that it is urgent to end the presentation of proposals for a law on the protection of whistleblowers of corruption in this legislature. The second point, Mrs Roldán, is that it is miswritten. The government would not win the Champions League of Transparency, but the point is maximalistic and unscrupulous. And in the sixth point we understand that they talk about the illegal financing of Convergence and how political structures were trying to get bites. They have already commented on the fresh news of the « pituitary of that party which Mr Batet knows nothing about : you have to have a very hard face to say that he did not talk about issues that do not affect his party. And to remind the president of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya that Convergence became PDECAT, a party in which he fought until a few months ago. He was mayor of CiU and obtained the minutes of congressman presenting himself with CiU, and more, and more, he was part of Convergence during the proven events of illegal financing of Convergence of 3 percent and of the alleged" pitufeure that this week the ex-Secretary Osàcar explained. But to see the corrupt practices of a political party and its offices, Mrs Roldán, to say that all the people of the Generalitat work for it goes a long way. There are female officials and professionals in the structures of the Generalitat who work excellently and comply with the law in a thorough manner. Transparency is a basic element of democracy and, as a democratic government, must ensure maximum transparency [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in public administration. I'm done. It is therefore essential to comply with the rules, and that the Government should not evade its obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.126.0	Thank you, President. Well, that lack of transparency and corruption are a problem, have been a structural problem in the 78's, in the Spanish State, also to the Catalan autonomy, and that this has almost crossed the totality or the vast majority of the parties with responsibility for government is an evidence, it is an evidence and it is a scourge that we must fight with strength: the fight against corruption and the fight against the lack of transparency. And, in this sense, we place the combination of political forces, but especially independence. Independence must be at the forefront of the reversal of these situations, of making them clear and of eliminating these shortcomings of transparency and corruption from the political landscape, because with corruption, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no republic there, that is obvious – that is obvious. Now, lords and lords of Ciutadans, pretend, as you sometimes do, to accuse generalists, generalists against independence, identifying independence with lack of transparency, moreover, in a context of general cause against independence and in a context clearly repressive, it seems to us that it is a question that we cannot accept or validate from the ends of the way. But, also, today you – I think for the first time, if I do not fail the memory – raise a motion in which the preamble does not point to objects different from those we later find in the text of the motion, in which you do not point, in the name of transparency, against the reference of the U of October, or you do not point, specifically, at Catalan public diplomacy. Therefore, as far as you, in today's motion, are concerned, effectively, to speak of questions of transparency, we, today, will give support to some of the points of your motion and we will abstain in some others in that we consider that there is a lack of rigour or there is a lack of consistency or undue generalization in the poses you are fanning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. Daniel Serrano, deputy of the Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.128.0	Thank you, Vice President; from the seat. To express our support for the motion. The government's lack of transparency has been a constant denunciation by opposition groups over the past few years, but, in particular, throughout this legislature, not only with regard to the written questions put by opposition deputies, where the government answered and continues to answer not only when it wants, but also what it wants, with partial, incomplete or inaccurate answers. And this lack of transparency has also spread to other areas of parliamentary activity. Just remember the control sessions of former President Torra, where his answers had nothing to do with the object of the questions posed to him, or, simply, he converted the control session to the president in the control session of the president to the deputies of the opposition, another example of what is the lack of transparency. A lack of transparency that, moreover, has spread to all the departments of the Government, and very especially, also, no more nor less than to the Department of Transparency, which is that this is already a joke; that the Department of Transparency is one of the most opaque is almost a joke. And it is that, in reality, what emerges from this lack of continuous and permanent transparency of the Government is that opacity is part of the leitmotiv of government action by all departments of the Government. There is an intention to conceal information from the Members of the opposition, and I insist that this has been a constant strategy on the part of the Government throughout the entire legislature, which is a clear violation of the rights of the Members of the opposition to obtain information in order to exercise parliamentary control, which is our role and our obligation, and you really make it very difficult. That is why we support the motion, not because we believe that the Government is going to comply, that it is not going to do so, but at least that we do so so that in the list of wishes for the coming legislature this transparency is a reality and not a mere dream of the Members of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. The next word is MP Jordi Orobtig of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.130.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mrs Roldán, I must confess that when my parliamentary group instructed me, so I had the opportunity to remember that on September 10th, in this case, the Republican Group, I felt a sense of already seen and, recapitulating, I had the opportunity to remember that on September 10th, it is, say, a_me and a mig, Mrs Beltran already presented us with a young woman in these same terms and with a similar structure. They made an error correction at the last minute. I also said at that time, that I seemed fraudulent to address a personal theme of the department's excap. But in any case, the fears do not differ from those who were submissive to debate and vote that day. And, in short, the structure is the same, huh? In this case, the chain production system that Henry Ford designed you transfer to parliamentary dynamics; the same way they do it in committee, they do it in the House of Commons. Soon that young man was substantiated, they had already prepared an inquiry to speak of him again, to generate a report. What's the story? It is the will to set up a cloud about the government, about its transparency, about its cleanness. In short, as one of the points of his motion states, about creating a state of opinion respects that not only the Catalan institutions, also the same Catalan society, is rotten and malaise in terms of corruption, as if different from other governments own, as can be, as well as the spokesman of the People's Union Candidate, all those governments or administrative structures generated from the year 1978. We understand, and it cannot be otherwise, that Members have access to information, in the same way as all citizens of our country, and that they make use of it justly, intelligently and reasonablely. I also told his company the other day: in front of the right, there is the right button. And I expressed some names that are a_me and half have increased by more than 10_per_cent. In this case, the Ciutadans Group has submitted up to 456 requests for information and a hundred and eight written questions. That is to say, more than 564 initiates plus GAIP procurement resources and pronouncements. I believe, frankly, that there is an excess in demand for information, and that this excess, precisely, is this obstruction that you are pursuing. What you said was that the advisor told you in his day respects the paralysis of certain areas in the department to give answers, precisely, to all these requests for information. A news to Okdiario is not an argument to ask the government a question or a request. You're legitimate, aren't you? , may be, but information appearing in Okdiario cannot legitimately give rise to the question, in this case, of a parliamentary group addressed to the Government. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary and necessary for the government to be rigorous at the time of reply, but I believe that it is also necessary for all members of this chamber at the time of their task and of submitting requests for information in fair terms. We, as it has been explained, some of the quarters that they present, therefore, generate doubts, right? We have all the effective will and policy to bring about the law of protection of whistleblowers, but we are aware, as has been said before, that we can hardly give it out of this legislature. And in this sense, as we are more of facts than of words, so, the same department, before we posit in our legal order this figure, you have already planned to enable an anonymous compass in the framework of the strategy of the fight against corruption and the strengthening of public integrity. This bust will be operational by November. And, therefore, as much as we take the burden and we will vote in favour of this proposal... because not what we want, in any case, is that it is understood that we will obstruct approval of this legislative initiative, which we will not allow either of them to take over, huh? Because, in this case, the proposals of law that respect it, if someone is pushing them, precisely, is our parliamentary group. For the rest, I would have many things to discuss, but what I really want to do is that the government is fully aligned with the transparency strategy, and it proves this is that this very week the government of the generality has become a member of the Open Government Partnership; in this case, an international open government network that becomes a reference of transparency and civic empowerment. Only when there is an effective willingness to be transparent do they take initiatives such as adhering to these networks and take these applications into account precisely. That is to say, if we are talking about the international balance of transparency, the requirement of our legislation in this area, I believe that the Government of the Generality's referent respects the rest is more than obvious. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done, in this case, President. I believe that this young man, as always, as he does one and a half months ago, is nothing more than word, word, and we are more than facts and less than words. And as I suppose it will please you more: works are love, and not good reasons. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it's the turn of Congresswoman Gloria Freixa, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.132.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, first of all, today I would also like to show my support for the whole Bureau of this Parliament. Company Lluís Guinó, allowing a democratic debate can never be criminal. Well, the lady. The young man we're dealing with today..., I'm trying to see his good will, you're going to build something that we can do among all of you, how to improve it, how to seek the benefit for the citizen of Catalonia, but how it costs, how it costs Ciutadans to do things among all of you. It's hard to find a good feeling about things. This was loaded, loaded and always loaded with the complaint and the complaint. The young lady has seven points, but from these seven points there is a special one, point 2, where we find two subpoints. As the company also said of the commons, of an incredible lack of rigour, because if you really have firm and notorious elements of this lack of transparency I am sure that we have not failed and have said them here. But on the other hand, in these two subpoints we find it does not answer me, "he answers in part, " it takes time to answer, and, well, I do not go on because I do not need to. Set us up. I think we all agree that transparency is a general principle that governs day-to-day administration and, of course, that all people have the right to know what administrations are doing and how they do it. And this right is inherent in democracy. In effect, "transparency and democracy are two concepts that walk together and are inseparable. There is one who said that dictatorships make the citizens transparent and opaque rulers and, therefore, democracy is and must be just the opposite. Unfortunately, with the end of democracy in Spain, transparency did not reach our institutions. As it costs, sometimes, this, to Spain. We've been cheating for almost forty years to get the first law of transparency. We were an unusual case throughout the Western world, the only country in Europe that had no laws of transparency. And finally, he's here. In Catalonia I assure you that we have not taken note, and things are fan and will make differences. And if not, I'm sure that you yourselves will come here to remind us - not like you, that you are ruling in Madrid with the party condemned more often for corruption of all Spain. To speak of Catalonia, the year 2014, the Law of Transparency... And then also remind them that the government has a department specifically dedicated to transparency, with a clear bet for the open government, and also that in this legislature there has been a government agreement to boost open data, based on a very simple principle: that everything that is not prohibited is easy. Reconnaissance of the Government's transparency actions is not in ourselves. See an institution, Transparency Internacional d'Espanya, among many others. We also know that Citizens, when it's not about some institution that tells you what you want, don't recognize it without truth. But, look, that's it. And now we can also talk about you, because we are sure that where you find yourself more comfortable than ever is in opposition: critical, embolistic, we create all the camps by the wayside and I don't let anything else grow there. But what happens when it's up to us to rule? Mirin, during the pandemic, in Catalonia, if there's anything I can't say, it's that I haven't been transparent, this government. This government, before the harsh situation of the citizens, was aware that transparency and information were the most important. Mechanisms have been established to inform at all times of the health situation. But, in addition, it has gone further: the data of the ERTO, of the Generality's emergency contract, the data of attention to the citizenry, like now the phone of male violence, or 012, and of the affectation to the commercial activity of the trades and tourist establishments, among others. Where are the data from Andalusia? What is the real impact of the pandemic on the Andalusian? How many opinions have died on the Andalusian residences? I'm sure the citizens would appreciate it very much. In fact, the Andalusian press once and another gave thanks to the hospital because they got the real data from the health situation in Andalusia, and not from the board. Always transparency, but always according to plan. They're afraid too. According to your fears, they don't touch them. The monarchy. Because transparency does not understand it, neither monarchy nor republic. They are two states supported by public funds and of which they are accountable. So, look, we never hear them, neither here nor in Madrid, ask why the Royal House only publishes contracts every three_months without the identity of the successful tenderers; why is there a selection of staff without publicity. Nor do they publish statements of good and service from other sources, nor do they publish annual accounts. And not to talk about the assumptions, which clearly, very little. So this, which affects, yes, all the citizens of his esteemed one and great Spain, nor a comment. Indeed, they help to make better Catalonia and, by the way, also Spain. Collaborate, and do not hinder the right of public information, because their petitions are repetitive, and they are also always repeated about the same themes and the same materials. And this, sometimes, ends up feeling abusive, and ends up going against the very principles of this right to transparency. They help, therefore, the transparent management of this Government, which is what they are trying to do from the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, the record that this young man's vote will do at the end of the afternoon, with the rest of the votes. And now we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.134.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume this late session. [[Asking the Government about the tourism model]] [[300-00310/12]] And we do this with the new item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the tourism model, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.135.0	Many thanks, deputies and deputies; many thanks, counselor. He said to you yesterday a phrase that I think surprised close and strange, that is that there is no left and right anymore, what is now well managed states. And I was surprised, coming from you, that I think... and I always had it for a proud congressman. He told me once that the public school had lost glamour and that the concerted school had to be strengthened. I think the one who's lost glamour in this country is being dredged. And, if not, he asks his partner Albert Batet, who, after all a life of militancy in Convergence, the first one he said is "I don't know anything, I don't remember ever having militancy here. There are no more Convergence activists in Catalonia, for which it seems. But let's go to the interrogation. Tourist sector, I think the general diagnostics are all very clear. An 80_per_cent drop in the number of foreign tourists this year, an 84_per_cent drop in the number of foreign tourists and a 90_per_cent drop in the number of tourists from the rest of the State. And, therefore, it is a failure of an entire economic sector in this country. An economic sector that occupies between 700 and 900,000 people in Catalonia. And that, therefore, is a central sector, both in the production of wealth – the 12_percent of our gross domestic product – as in the generation of occupation. But it's been an unequal time. And I think the first conclusion we can draw is that not all tourist models have resisted equally well or not all tourist models have suffered the same fall. The tourist model of the interior has certainly resisted better, because many citizens of Catalonia have not traveled abroad and have made rural tourism or tourism to the central regions. And not all coastal towns have resisted just as badly. What they bet, from an initial point of view, on a touristic model of Eurotours and international tourism has resisted much worse than those who have a more familiar and closer touristic model. Therefore, the first thing I would say to you is that we need a clear, territorialized and concrete diagnosis, and detailed, because we need to know what happened in the tourism sector this year. And we need to be able to predict the full range of tourist models that we have in our country. Because we can't intervene to rescue 12_percent of our gross domestic product, we don't have this ability to intervene. But we have the capacity to intervene surgically and effectively in many sectors. And, therefore, to intervene well, we will need an accurate diagnosis. Second question: the interventions that have already been made. We have made interventions based on a forecast that has not been completed: we miss the Holy Week season, we endure during the state of alarm and we will reopen in the summer, which will rejuvenate the tourist demand in our country. And it wasn't like that. We've lost Holy Week, we've lost all the months of the state of alarm, all spring, we've lost all summer. And now we're waiting to see if we don't lose the whole Nadal or if we don't lose the Holy Week of the year you see. And therefore, if two weeks ago we discussed which sectors we were reopening, today we see that the debate is back to which sectors we are tanking and that this went further than we planned. And, surely, much longer. The International Air Transport Agency warned that the air transport of tourists would not be another time at the cent_per_cent until 2024. And that 2021 would have a 30_per_cent less air transport. And, therefore, this crisis in the tourism sector, in those models that remain very dependent on international tourism, will continue to be painted. And we will need to continue intervening in order to avoid the closure of tourist businesses. And it shows that there are tourism models that are excessively dependent on international tourism. And that, that so far has been good for us, in the future it won't be so good for us. And, therefore, we must intervene, too, to change part of our tourism model. Above all, if you take into account that there are sectors linked to tourism, such as the hostelry, such as the restoration, to which we can not even guarantee the productive continuity at the length of the year. Because we have rebounds, we have pandemics and we need to intervene for health issues. And, therefore, we need to make a good diagnosis. And we must review, too, how we must intervene in the future. We make various short and medium-term proposals. The first one I mentioned this morning, I think it's talking a little bit, but I think we'll start talking at the length of this year. Cal intervene to support returns. Many of these 700,000, 900,000 workers, are today receiving temporary benefits, receiving termination benefits, self-employment benefits, are in ERTO's position. They've all lost their income. And many of them come from low-wage, low-continuity productive sectors. Many are fixed discontinuous; many have temporary contracts. And, therefore, we must intervene to sustain income. Because, if not, we will see a daltabaix, not only in the consumption of this country, but in the income inequalities of this country. And one of the things we said when you presented the government's first decrees is that we don't just need to think about fifty lines of help, that I think we would agree that we would go up to covering the needs of the sector, and that we would not complement the lines and the state's help services, but we should also think about complementing the industry's needs, the performance of activities, the vital minimum income and the guaranteed income of citizenship that allows us to contain, to a large extent, the working class and the middle classes of this country. And it's an intervention that we talk about very little about, but I think every time it's going to be a little higher. Second question. We have to keep the product woven. And we know that a year 2021 will come that will also be hard on the part of our tourism sector. But we have to resist the fabric of production. It's not certain that a company that closes the dilluns, buys the place on Tuesday and the dimecres have another company. The economy doesn't work that way. A company that's closed today is a company that we don't know when we'll be able to recover again. And, therefore, the first policy, apart from the content of yields, must be the content of the destruction of textile products in our country. In various directions. First, reduce costs. The ERTOs have helped. They've reduced salary costs. The proposal you have made about loggers has helped to make sure that when a company does not have to pay loggers who do not, when it does not, close to zero, only that they continue to lose money every week of inactivity. And, therefore, it has been a measure that can help. There was a moratorium on the tourist tax, which we obviously agree with. If a person closes, the last concern we can put him on is what happens with the tourist tax. We raise it, and when we have a diagnosis of how the tourism sector worked, we'll figure out what to do with it. But we have to go there more. We're going to have to plant moratoria in the ICO and the ICF, of the prestecs that have been demanded in this first wave of pandemic. And surely we will have to plant, too, what we do with the basic sub-administrations of companies: with water, with light, with gas, that they continue to feel structural costs that prevent closing to zero. Because, as we reduce structural costs, we're going to postpone the closing date that many companies have in mind. And the more we raise it, the more we can bring it closer to the economic recovery that will take place in the sector. And we're going to have to intervene. Because we don't have any money or assumptions to support all the business costs in this country. But we've also had a lot of help. And you've been a General Counsel for a while. I'm sure he knows, too, what I'm going to tell him, but I think I have to. You will have to claim the Department of Enterprise in the case of the Government of the Generality. And it's a discussion that's been going on for years. It cannot be that the Department of Enterprise, which supports the National Pact for Industry, Tourism, the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, has presuppositions of misery. And you'll have to claim it on the government's side. And at this stage, with more radicality and with more need than the former. And, therefore, we need a diagnostic, we need to know how to intervene with help, with guarantee and finance and guarantee returns. And we need to plan the post-Covid tourism sector. And we need to do it because it won't be the same. We need to diversify opportunities in the territory. There are many territories condemned to the monoculture of tourism, and which accentuates problems like rural depopulation in our country. Part of the European funds must also go to diversify the economic fabric in our country. We will have to modernise the sector, both in the digital transition and in us sustainable tourist models. And we will therefore have to put forward ambitious plans that can take advantage of European foundations to modernise the sectors. And a third question. We will also have to combat the economic deregulation suffered by the sector and the emergence of platform economies that make unfair competition and precarious working conditions. Two questions of respect – and I'm done with that. The question of free tours, which are not free tours, but free pricing. We know that the platform economy is competing today with tourism guides, run from Catalonia, who pay for their employment contracts and respect the labour relations in our country. He's intervened now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.136.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.137.0	... from the Ministry of Labour – and with this I am finished – with many experiences. Do it. And let's put the eye, too, to what's going on on the ski slopes, what's been going on, that brought the workers today to claim a decent job deal, because it's fraudulently contracted out, when it doesn't find out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.138.0	Congressman, I remind you that you have five minutes to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.139.0	...as false autonomies– and with this I'm done. We have eyes and we have job inspections in all those sectors that make precarious competence delleial.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Conseller of Enterprise and Coneixement" has. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Deputy Ferro, a preview before we start. I mentioned a British historian yesterday. It's not my statement. Amongst comets, there is a British historian who said that "in this crisis there are no strands or lefts, only solvent and efficient states and states, therefore, that they have not managed well and that, therefore, is delegitimizing to the eyes of their citizens. So, so, this previa, because I'm not saying that. I put a phrase between you that makes me think. And looking at the left government we have in Madrid, so, a lot different from the PP, a lot of things haven't done, huh? Militarizing a health crisis would have made the PP, for example. Hire four large audit firms to manage European foundations, rejecting autonomous governments, with consolidated decades' agencies... The PP would not have done better. So, there's a lot of differences, isn't there? And if you ask for labels..., look, me, 30 years ago, I define myself as the liberal of the left. It can only be returned rich if it was created before. Clearly, liberal, in Barcelona, it's a very small thing. But when you go to Brussels as an MEP, you're left. Because, as you will know, the Liberal Group, in many areas, is the majority in the European Parliament, always green and socialist. But if you go to the United States, you're a communist. And if you say I am a liberal, you are directly communist. So, that's a very funny word. You can pass two years of my votes to the European Parliament – every year there are between four and six thousand nominees – look at the coincidences, I am with Ernest Urtasun. More than he'd want, maybe more than I'd want too. But, in the end, life is like that. Politics is a vote in your parliament, more than you're proclaiming, isn't it? And a little bit, in this sense... and, more than that, I, on the left, when I say liberal lefts..., for me the lefts are not that they seek the equality of results, but the equality of opportunities. So, if we say we're left-handed, we'd have to think... because the equality of results too often leads to impoverishment and elevation down and, in change, the equality of opportunities rewards who worked more than others. But well, I'm doing this before, as you mentioned... I didn't say that the public school doesn't have glamour, I said, "Speaking of the public school doesn't have glamour. So, look for the exact date and I didn't get the interested copy paste that makes some. But, let's talk about tourism, which is very important, because tourism is a tractor sector, the driving force behind Catalonia. And now we've had a brutal crisis that has allowed something unusual in the social sciences, which is experimenting. In other words, experimental science, physics, chemistry, can replicate a experiment in a laboratory a thousand times in different conditions: "Let's throw a stone, to see what speed it takes. We'll put heat on it, wind, cold. They can replicate it many times. Social science can't do it. For example, how would the crisis of the year 2010 be without the euro? Inflations of 25_per_cent, type of interest of 25_per_cent, depreciation of the type of brutal change, bank corralitos, the Bankia crisis would have infected the entire financial system... But as we have not – fortunately – dyed the 2010 crisis without the euro..., it was a brutal crisis, but it could have been harder. We couldn't prove it. But, of course, now we have proof in social sciences. You say of the congregation: "Out of tourism! That's a lot of tourism. Tourism menys! All right, now we have had a disastrous health crisis, a pandemic that has destroyed our tourism sector and now we have a Barcelona without international tourism. And now we find that tourism is a key sector because it doesn't just fill hotel rooms, it gives life to shops, restaurants, a part of real estate, and it's more than 12_percent of the GDP we give. I have tourism data, which I won't read them all, but in case... The last months– September, August, July–, and I have broken down by region in Catalonia : Barcelona, Costa Daurada, Costa Brava, Pirineus, Terres de l'Ebre. Clearly, the caiguds are: 64_per_cent by September, 50_per_cent by August, July also 58_per_cent. Barcelona: caigudes of 80, 78, 84_per_cent. Clar, Barcelona was a city of total global success. I have been to Brussels in the case of Google many years, ships to Silicon Valley with parliamentary delegations, ships to Xina in official trips and tell you: "That Barcelona as well as its Mobile World Congress, because for us Barcelona is like Switzerland, it is a few territories of the world where a Chinese and an American feel like home. But that's when... not just with the Mobile World Congress, at a lot of other conventions. When an inquiry is made to the delegates: "Where do you want to go? ...The Seafood Congress, which was the great convention of Brussels and which changed Brussels to Barcelona... Why? Because the 95_per_cent of the exhibitors triaven Barcelona. For a lot of motius. Therefore, they cannot give up tourism. We must continue to demand tourism. What do I need to check things out? Totally fine. What do we need to check out what kind of tourism we're up for, why are there segments that have more externalities and costs? It's true. We'd find a lot of points of contact here. But, well, it's the business people who know better than we do – because there are many decades, many times, they carry many years to a few years – where and how these reforms are to be made. It depends on interventionism, which sometimes produces unintended or desired effects. "Now we will decide, we will plan, we will intervene in what the future tourist will be like. All right, but we have entrepreneurs in this country who are thirty, forty and fifty years old to a few innovative sectors, improving, and taking them into account, because sometimes interventionist dreams produce unintended or desired effects – many times. You talked about finding contact points. Would this government like to expand the ERTOs? Yeah. And we strongly invite the Spanish Government to do so on the line, for example, of what Germany has done, where it governs, for years, and very well, a coalition of CDU and SPD. A great coalition. It is to say, therefore, that of the right and left that you said, in principle it would be very opportune. I mean, they're saying they've lost a lot of the idea they had 30 years ago. Today, this, in liquid societies, is redrawing. But well, they have extended the ERTOs to Germany until November 2021, beyond the elections. Therefore, it is not necessary to suffer every quarter until the last minute that if it is renewed, it is not renewed, the small letter, this activity code has entered, this other not... No, no, no. Please, one year. Because now the European Central Bank buys debt in large quantities from the Spanish State and if it sees a fall in GDP of 15_per_cent – and it is brutal and not innocent, and it punishes the redemption – we can guarantee the level of expenditure. This is never seen, it's fantastic to be able to make a planning in this sense of public spending that we can have this money guaranteed. This government has pushed this 50-per-cent moratorium on llogers, which we believe is positive. The moratorium on the tourist tax is very liberal in the sense that the public sector refuses to enter taxes already levied. At the time there was a very interesting debate, and I was one of those who I put on the table: "As many European countries have done, let us hold on to business, that we should not be indebted, as they did in July, to pay companies and VAT. And I have to say that Republican Left finally accepted it, and it's a measure, we understand, of helping the sector resist these months and pull it forward. And in this sense, therefore, the moratorium on the tourist tax goes in a line that we understand to be the good one in this time of exceptionality that we live in. Reduce energy costs, ICOs, the moratorium on credit, agree. That is to say, my personal opinion is: the situation is what it is, the entrepreneurs tell us "we can't resist if we don't get back into business. So we'd also agree to widen it. Clearly, the Government of the Left that you manage, instead of injecting direct aid, as so many countries have done on the banks like Mr. Macron, has passed all the businesses for the bank to ask for credits. It's a model that, on the left, very doesn't fit what we might have. But in any case, agree with this: let's extend the ICOs, give the moratorium until it triggers the activity. We understand that this is positive. And, for what it does to reduce the energy costs that you quoted, it is true that there is a component of the bill, that is the fixed cost, that we could go in and talk to us about this. And I have to tell him that big business I've talked to wouldn't be denied. Obviously, though, of course, billing is a process that has to be billed, but if there is no billing, we can talk about it because the attitude of big companies, for example, with the issue of energy poverty, which I have spoken to some, so it is understandable, positive, according to the new times we live in. Obviously, the refuse has to be paid, but we can find exceptions. And, in this sense, I understand that in these moments of crisis it is very good that there is broad consensus. I, for example..., held the debate with you on the draft law processed in the emergency procedure of the APEUs. There's been a lot of collaboration from all the groups and I need you to... because the citizenry understands that it's waiting for us. And, therefore, also in the tourism sector, measures that we need to implement in order to enlarge, therefore, the life of businesses, which we are interested in..., we should go all together, in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.142.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a replica turn now for the deputy for five minutes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.143.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a mantra about the Barcelona City Council and tourism, which I think we need to discuss with a little more ownership. 2019 in Barcelona there were records of tourists: 12_millions. I am saying this because I believe that we sometimes confound criticism of tourism, mass tourism, the impact it has on certain barrels, because these 12_million tourists almost all concentrated in the centre of Barcelona. And I think that we sometimes conjugate legitimate criticisms not only of institutions, of many ways that they see the increase of the loguers, that they develop legal and illegal tourist apartments, that they gentrify the barrels and that they see expelled from the barrels..., I think we conjugate all this, that it is the critique of a determined tourist model, with the critique of tourism. And I think it's a little confusing a little dishonest. I always explain the same anecdote. In Venice there is a pharmacy, the pharmacy Morelli, which has an accountant of inhabitants, of how many inhabitants remain in the center of Venice. In the fifties there were 175,000, now there are fifty thousand. And it is now that the assembly, these years, these past years, has had to pose serious, because 30_million tourists and hikers come to the city, and, obviously, they have replaced habitations for hotels, public services for tourists, etc. And it is giving negative externalities, in this activity and in all the rest, which does not question the importance of tourism that has on our economy, on the contrary: we take advantage of European foundations to work these negative externalities. We want a tourism of more quality, which can leave more expenditure with less masseasticity, more decentralized. Barcelona is a beautiful city at European level, architecturally, urbanly, with an obvious historical and cultural heritage, but we have a country that has a natural and historical heritage and has beaches in the country, and we have a Pyrenees that at the level of natural heritage and biodiversity is also a European heritage. We put it on the table and work dynamically on tourist decentralisation and tourist deseasonalization. And now we have an opportunity – you said it very well – we have European foundations that allow us to open the debate with ambition at the end of the day. You said one thing I don't agree with, which is: "Ull with intervention, that entrepreneurs know what is to be done in this country. Well, let's say entrepreneurs have a particular interest in what needs to be done in this country. But even I do not accept the phrase in its conjunction: it is the entrepreneurs of this country who are demanding intervention, today, now, to combat the failed economics of the sector and to re-establish the sector. Are they entrepreneurs – or are they not entrepreneurs? – those who complain that there are collaborative economy platforms that contract false autonomies and compete unfairly with entrepreneurs who pay taxes here, who pay labor contributions here and who pay salaries agreed with the agreed collections here. They are also entrepreneurs; they are our entrepreneurs, in fact. Intervene here. And, therefore, a concrete diagnosis of what the situation is like. I believe that this can allow us to adapt a lot and clarify the discussion about how and in what amount we need to intervene to support the tourism model in this country. We're discussing short-term intervention, which I think, in general terms, we're all more or less in agreement that we need to hold back and hold on to businesses during this pandemic lapse that we're living in. And, therefore, we agree on the intervention in the medium term and we open the discussion on the post-Covid tourism model in this country: which elements already needed to be corrected before, which elements the European foundations allow us to put on the table with ambitious plans, in terms of digital transition, in terms of sustainability, of better quality of tourism service in this country. Let's put it on the table. And also, obviously, those elements of economic order that tourism needs and that all the economic sectors of this country of labor regulation need, because there has been a free bar of labor regulation in some sectors for a long time and is already correcting work inspection. And we also have on the table the need to build new regulations and an orderly tourism model in our country. And I think that this is where the entrepreneurs of this country, more than they have the most comptability in the head, and more than the reticent ones that can be to the labor regulations, in general terms, the honest entrepreneurs of this country are all agreeable. Those who pay taxes and regularly hire their workers should agree. And, therefore, we stand there and take advantage of the European foundations to make an ambition of tourism in this country for its own decades. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make his answer, the councillor has a turn again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.145.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, a minute to talk about the business paper. That is to say, if you take up economic theory manuals, you will see that they define the classic production factors – land, work, capital – and then also talk about the business factor. And the business factor is a different productive sector. Why? Because its function is to think, arrange, prepare, organize, orient other productive sectors to create a production, generate a production of goods or services. And, therefore, if you read Keynes, that it was not, let's say, Drets, to hear us, will see that Keynes says: "It is the social leader who is the entrepreneur, who stops with his assets to settle in a business to create wealth. And, therefore, creating jobs is not the public sector, it is the entrepreneur. That's what Keynes says, huh? I mean, you started talking about right and left, I tell you that a left-wing lord, like Keynes..., also Keynes said: "We have to spend and generate public deficits when the economy goes badly, but when the economy goes well, the public sector has to generate budgetary surpluses, as Germany or Holland have done. That is to say, in the good years from 2014 to 2020 they have generated surplus assumptions, they have discharged the state and now they can put all the meat to the graella. Therefore, Keynesianism bo is Merkel, the best student of Keynes is Merkel. And when Pablo Iglesias said, I also met him in the European Parliament..., and said: "It is clear that austerity in Spain has failed. And I say to him: "Home, Pablo, look at the figures of public debt in the last eight years in Spain, we have gone from 40_percent of GDP to 100_percent of GDP in the last eight years, and Rajoy has done it, and now also a little... I mean, Spain has tripled the debt from 400,000 to 1.2_billion euros in the last two years, nor did Felipe II go so fast, borrowing the State. This austerity... what austerity are you talking about? Because you explain this to Brussels and your own will put your hands on the head. So, I've talked about the entrepreneur as the key person to hold her when we talk about redefining the sector in the future, more than anything because she's dedicated to it, and because she knows she's playing her money and creating jobs. And if we eliminate entrepreneurs in a country, we'll have a problem. But in this sense, listen, I have never used the expressions I have heard in this chamber of other Members talking about tourism, in the name of..., I have never used it, and I find it unfair. But Mayor Colau could also say: "We need better tourism, better quality tourism. We'd appreciate a few statements in that sense. I ask Mayor Colau one thing: that I did not close the Via Laietana to this Nadal, because with the Barcelona Assembly we want to make a campaign– « I came to the center– and, moreover, I spoke to Jaume Collboni and I said to him: « We have to do it together, together and Generality, because now is the time to act institutionally folded. I'd love to do it. We'll do it, but if we do it together, we'll go ahead. And Jaume Collboni said, he announced it to the board the other day: "We want to do this with the Generality. Perfect. But, of course, if you want the people of Sabadell, Granollers and Martorell bassin to dissipate in Barcelona to buy in the morning, to dinar in a restaurant, in the late to buy in the center of Barcelona, on the evening to the Liceu or the Palau de la Música, we do not tank them the Via Laietana. We don't tank them the Via Laietana, because then he'll say: "So I'm going to the Rock of Vallès or I'm not going there. And we fell for international tourism, which was the 60_per_cent in the center of Barcelona. We have dropped the tourism of comarques, which was the 20_per_cent in Barcelona. And, if not, we can recover this tourism from the comarques; therefore, publicly, ask: please do not tank; tank the diumenge, the Via Laietana, but the disabte does not. And in this sense, for that reason, we have to fine-tune a little, don't we? I am fully prepared and in favour of us taking advantage of European foundations as much as we can to capitalize the sector and modernise it and prepare it better, digitise it. Before, however, in this sense, also with the Barcelona Assembly, also with the commons a minimum consensus would be very welcome and would allow us to do better public policies. I recognize the negative externalities that generate in many cities a massive tourism like what we've had, it's true, and desertion of barrels. And that too, when tourism is recovered, so good we can improve it, but it's hard, it's hard. And in this sense, therefore, an honest and frank dialogue with all political forces would be very good to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.146.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the lack of follow-up to companies in the management of the pandemic]] [[300-00315/12]] Let's go to the second inquiry, which is about the lack of follow-up to companies in the management of the pandemic, and it is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.147.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Mr Councillor. Very good afternoon. Mr Tremosa, yesterday I asked you a question at the plenary session. My question referred to the lack of sensitivity of its councillor, which is precisely the company councillor, and to the nil accompaniment that the Catalan families, the autonomous and the SMEs that have suffered a severe blow in the face of the new restrictions imposed by the Government are having. In this case, the worst part has been taken away from you the hospitality, as you well know: bars, restaurants, and also aesthetic centers, they saw how, from night to morning, they had to close the blind and they had to do it in solitude, totally helpless without you a priori making any effort. And not only do they make no effort, but, in addition, with their response yesterday it did not even empathize with the harsh situation of all those Catalan families who have their future at stake. And if before asking you the question I was already worried, after listening to your answer my concern grew exponentially. It was an answer in which, in our way of looking, and in a bold way, he just threw balloons out. But there are some elements that still surprised me more. You did what this government does every day, to which we are already used: try to blame a third party and not assume their responsibility. You know, the fault of everything has Madrid and the « Espanya ens robs us of the sign that blinded Mr Aragonès, proud of his insolidarity in his exalted rallies. You did the same, but you did it much more exaggerated: you blamed the Government of Spain, you told us about foreign newspapers, you told us about other countries, about the theoretical collection according to GDP, but at no time did you focus your speeches on the things you could do from your office, which is the one that should ensure the interests of the self-employed and SMEs. We met a company advisor who, for me, still thought he was in Brussels, believing that he was paid to come here to talk about geostrategic policy, and at other times gave the impression, as today, that he felt like a group of students eager to receive a master's lesson on international policy. That is why I have had to completely change the content of the inquiry that I am making to you today, because I need to know what your attitude is to this new responsibility, to tell me whether you are really going to worry and take up your advice, whether you are really going to take care of the autonomous, the SMEs, the Catalan jobs or not. Imagine the importance of my initial doubt in this inquiry, doubt more than founded after following your statements, articles and tweets throughout this month and a half that you carry as a counselor. Mr. Tremosa, we see that you are not here to accompany the Catalan business fabric in the face of this harsh health crisis, which has become an economic crisis of a magnitude never seen since we have memory; it gives us the feeling that your goal is to endure four months, cheating, with grandiose speeches and throwing balls out until the February elections are called, and the families, the self-employed and the SMEs, as you repeat continuously, will be able to do their best to hibernate until the spring comes, until the elections have passed and the flowers come out. Am I right, Counselor? Counselor, you can't pose to stand for four months with your arms crossed talking about your book. Now the priority, in addition to saving lives, is to save jobs. All the resources must be put on the table so that all those bars, all those restaurants, all those centres of aesthetics that have been forced to abandon their activity by decree do not close the blind. I can't even imagine a citizen's deputy who was at the moment at other things, instead of worrying about the situation of the pandemic, instead of looking for solutions, instead of defending with nails and teeth those he has to represent, trade, hospitality, industry or the leisure sector. A citizen's deputy cannot live with the attitude you are showing us, Mr Tremosa. With you, I tell you honestly, we have a very serious basic problem, a problem of functions and responsibilities. Do you really think it's normal, Mr. Tremosa, that it's logical for a business advisor to just talk about hibernating, that self-employed people, SMEs and jobs can stand alone, and that, if that, then European funds will come? But anyway, let's go to the facts of this last week, which will allow me to give empirical basis to this inquiry. The first great critical situation that you live as a counselor, taking into account that you have been in office for a month and a half – since they pulled Mrs. Chacón out the back door – occurred last week, when they decide to close bars and restaurants, and also aesthetic centers. Let's go over that timeline. First they give us hope by saying that you will be able to open up the night's leisure, a sector that is shattered because, despite all the investments that you have made in hygienic measures, despite all the security measures, you see how on their doors you mount bottles every weekend, but they cannot open up their business by complying with all the security measures. After giving them all these hopes, after having them prepare the premises for the opening, after they arise with hope that their workers will cease to be in an ERTE, they change their mindset. Counselor, is that accompanying the leisure sector? That's creating uncertainty, that's lack of planning, that's sinking into the sector. Then they make the following decision: they plan to close bars, restaurants and aesthetic centers. And what would a counselor who cares about hospitality, a counselor who is concerned about the sector, a counselor who really wants to accompany them, who is willing to help them as much as possible? Trust that you already have your phone and that you will be called if you need it, as you said yesterday? I don't think so, I wouldn't do that. He would have already met with them to deal with a possible closure; he would have already heard their needs, as we have done in Citizens; he would have known that the most important costs they have, and that it is not necessary to be an expert in the matter to understand them, are the cost of staff and rent; he would have known that they have a whole series of perishable stocks to which they have to give way if they close their blind from night to morning. That adviser would know that, before taking such a measure, he must coordinate with the Government of Spain, because without such coordination the workers and the self-employed remain at the stand. Moreover, I would have already negotiated and coordinated it with the Government of Spain, to give them some calm, to avoid all that anxiety, instead of waiting, as happened, for the Vice President to send a letter to the Government of Spain the next day demanding help. Look, a counselor who wants to accompany the sector would already have more than talked about it. And if we were already looking for excellence in that hypothetical councillor, I would have even sought complicity in the parliamentary opposition groups, to count on their support, to convince them that he would do everything possible from his councillorship. However, what did you do? They leaked the news the night before, without talking to the sector, without coordinating with the Spanish government and without commenting on anything with the opposition. And they leaked the news to accompany the sector? No, they did it as a probe balloon, they did it so that all those families would spend the night watching with their hearts in a fist, thinking that with that decision their business would go to the garage, he and that of all the families that depend on that business would run out of resources. Let's get on with the chronology of those days. The next day they organized a press conference, while the hospitality sector was desperate at a previous meeting with them at eleven o'clock in the morning, a meeting that still gave them more anxiety, because it confirmed the fateful decision, the decision that seriously affected their survival, and they found with disbelief that they had no plan, that they had no contingency plan in the face of this type of situation, a situation that was totally predictable in the face of a pandemic. And, in the end, they had the defiance of not publishing the closing decree until one o'clock in the morning. Can you imagine if, Mr. Counsellor, the calvary that has passed and is passing all those families that you have left at the stake? , all those families that depend on the hospitality or the aesthetic centers or the night entertainment. But this uncertainty was even greater when, at the request of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, it presents documentation with formal errors. Do you really not realize that this is a hunk after hunk, when thousands of jobs are at stake? Is that accompanying those affected, Mr. Counsellor? And, instead of making the decision, what they did was look at what procedure they had, and they announced that they would allocate EUR 40 million in aid, EUR 40 million, with the losses of the hospitality sector planned in fifteen days that reach EUR 800 million, twenty times more than the amount you have taken out of the drawer. And you didn't even tell us yesterday your willingness to defend extending that endowment to the Councillor of Economics and Finance. Faced with our perplexity, he came to tell us that this is what there is, that it is the responsibility of the Government of Spain, when the Generalitat handles 32,000_million_of_euros, and that it could even have more, if it had not stretched the arm more than the sleeve in all the years of bonanza, accumulating almost 80,000_millions of public debt. But you know what? That's not accompanying the sectors. All families who depend on these sectors and deserve a counselor who cares about them, rather than a counselor, who only makes excuses for a bad payer. Mr Tremosa, today, in the face of this inquiry, you have the opportunity to rectify, to convince us that you are new in office and have been lost; you have the opportunity to show us that you are going to worry about the Catalan business fabric. If you do, I assure you that you will find our hand stretched out to add to all these issues, and not leave at the stand the families, the autonomous and the SMEs – the same hand stretched out that we had with Mrs. Chacón. Because, if they can't stand the self-employed and can't stand the SMEs, the future will be very but very black. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.148.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.149.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman. See, it's not the advice that works and locks. The competent authority is the health care provider, so we decided... the government of Catalonia has decided since March in front of the pandemic. It seems to me that he was a vice president of Ciutadans who in April or May recognized that President Torra always went ahead. Now I should be looking for the date, the person now I don't remember, but it took me away. And it goes in a line of recognizing that sometimes President Torra, therefore, has had the humility to advise himself with great professionals as there are in Catalonia in the health sector. And that's all he's ever known to his party. And, in this sense, what more would I want than not to take with the Government of Catalonia some decisions that are very painful. And it's true, we follow all these indicators day by day: the effective reproductive rate, the trend of the rebound index. And as three weeks ago there was a decrease in the Rt, we immediately called the night oci sector. And we got in touch with them, and we said, "If this goes on for a few more days, we partially open. But, of course, we have had this exponential growth. All the way, huh? Germany is already planning to confine the population for a whole week, and they are far below our indicators, no longer from Madrid or Navarre. So, what more do we want than not to take these steps? But unfortunately, epidemiological data are very negative and the situation is what it is. So, look, there was a government agreement on Tuesday, where I'm going to comment on some of the measures I'm going to take. Today, if the DOGC has been targeted, the effective bases of the Directorate General of Commerce are already emerging. It's forty-four hours. It is a fast track, let us say, to speed up the bureaucratic machinery of the Generality, much in line with which Brussels asks them with the management of European foundations. It can't be that to process according to five investment projects pass years, because we can't wait. And we're waiting for a decree from the Spanish government to speed up... we'll see how it will be, but it wants to make a fast track run. We're on this line, too, aren't we? Therefore, we try to do things as soon as possible. Well, it seems to me that the week I see I have an appearance on... the first of the Company. Then I'll submit a very accurate, very detailed report on what I've done in these six weeks in the department. But I can make some progress. Not only are there these measures that we announced on Tuesdays, these 40_million direct aids, these 20_million ICF loans, this 50_percent measure of the logger. For example, I invite you to look at today's Twitter account of the Barcelona Restoration Gremi, which has been a very critical greme with us – very critical. But, it's to say, if you look at the Twitter account, you say: "Today the government has acted bravely with the decision of 50_per_cent of the logger, to impact proportionally the costs of compulsory confinement imposed by health authorities. And this is a measure, obviously, that has an impact on the collection of owners, but let's think that the worst scene for a owner is that the pepper that occupies his place to lodge disappears and that I stopped paying him the loggers. Because then they can have weeks, months or years the place without activity or generation of returns. So, it's true, when we're at very critical times and we're taking very painful steps, we're getting a lot of criticism. But also, in the case of the Restoration Gremi, which has criticized us very publicly recently, today four piles with names and surnames are said: well, here is a measure that is useful for saving peppers and autonomes. Which is what we agree with. You and I have the same interest in ensuring the continuity of as much product as possible in Catalonia. I've been in my grateful, scratching department. I of my department can pose 15_millions to Avançsa, the public enterprise of the Generalitat. They can pose 7_millions to Action. They can put 13_millions in a car plan. We've been looking for different presuppositional parties and we've been looking. There will also be a racquet – but not the actual one yet – for the public search centers of the Generalitat, which these pandemic months have lost some of their tickets. We'll try to maximize all kinds of public money so as to maintain productive activity. And with that... I mean, I'm going to come up with concrete facts because this is all just happening, but, in principle, of course, the premise of the Generality is what it is. Miri, I've always wanted to have a financial system like Navarra's, an outlaw community. Because then the government's presuppositional capacity for action would be much greater. And I'll give you a xifra: Catalonia's GDP year 2019 was 250,000_millions, with a tax operation typus 37_per_cent; 100,000_millions in taxes. And you remembered the cipher. The Generalitat only has 32,000. And if you look at the Generality's premise, current expenditure, Chapter 1, Master's pay, working pay, maintenance of schools and hospitals... all this takes a lot of our assumption. Miri, the European Commission's budget is EUR 140,000_million, but Chapter 1 is very small, because there are only 30 thousand of you operating in Brussels. The bulk of the European budget is therefore operating in terms of transfers, in terms of funds. It can multiply activity if it is well injected into the economy. The assumption not only of the Generality, of many autonomys, therefore, goes from some innate past and is conditioned. On the 1st day of generation you already know that the presupposition, in an 80_per_cent – or an 80 and so many lengths, depends on which autonomy you look at–, so you can't touch it, because we won't stop paying salaries to teachers. A few salaries that we need to improve, because if we look at the bottom of a meth in France or in other European countries, we will see that we have a difficult problem of decapitalisation. May the best professionals we've ever generated go ahead. And this is a problem that we should all agree on. This also happens at the academic level. We can't hold him back from college. And this is a tough country problem. And in our own legislature we will have to make a national pact..., to develop the National Pact for Society for Knowledge in order to improve structures, as it is possible that this country retains the talent it generates, because this is a difficult problem that is on the table, and, in this sense, therefore, as a Councillor also of Knowledge, as a professor of the University of Barcelona who has been here for years, so, here, yes, that..., of other things not in themselves, of many things not in themselves, but the universities know them, because I have been working for years, and, moreover, the year passed there was the whole year, after the European experience, and I have made an update of how the Catalan university system is. And in this sense, therefore, it will be a debate that we will have to make on the margins of our differences about who the future of Catalonia should be. At the margin of this debate – which, this, the citizenry will pose and give votes and will distribute more or less escons in this chamber – we all have to face the debate about how we retain the talent in Catalonia in the health sector and in the university sector, in the scientific sector and in many others. So, so..., me, the other day..., listen to me, you're talking about getting pilots out. No, no, We all have the assumption that we're trying to spend it all this year and maximize the aid, the support measures that we can do to the fabric of the product. But I also remind him that the very Bank of Spain, which is not an entity that we control and can manipulate, and which now has a very competent governor, made a demolishing report in August, published in all the newspapers – August 11 – saying: "The Spanish State is the country that has the least resources to save the economy in direct aid and with tax freezes. We can freeze the tourist tax, but it is only a fee of 73_million euros. But who gets the VAT, who gets companies, who gets the IRPF is the Spanish government exclusively, and therefore the Spanish government has all the fire capacity. And who they buy public debt from is the Spanish government, because the generality of many years ago does not issue public debt on the markets. Therefore, which has the capacity to place public debt at the European Central Bank is the Spanish State. Once upon a time: 2015 there were zero_euros of Spanish public debt in the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. This year 2020 can end with 400.000_million euros of Spanish public debt in the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. What have they been spending on? AVEs? In tanks? Or save peppers and help businesses and raise social contributions? It's a debate that the most progressive government in history may be able to help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.150.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line, the Member of Parliament has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.151.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tremosa, I was asking for self-criticism today, but the truth is I haven't seen any self-criticism either. He went on, let me tell him, throwing or throwing balls away. He has once again told us that the Spanish Government is an evil one because it does not allow it to issue public debt and if it could issue public debt, it could be in debt and be able to obtain resources. But have you looked at the figure of our autonomous community's public debt? Who are they going to put... who are they going to cheat to put the public debt on him? We have a public debt qualified as a garbage bond for all debt ratings. We have 80,000_million public debt, twice as much as our annual budget. We have had years of economic growth, you talking about Keynesian policies, without being able to reduce public debt. Always the same. Stretching the arm more year after year than the sleeve. Without doing the duties, despite all our warnings. The warnings that it is essential to reform the Catalan administration. Is that not the power of the Government of the Generalitat? Mr. Counsellor, it is imperative to eliminate chiringuitos, high offices, privileges, prebends and more prebends they have and all those grantees who have no public justification. All those customer networks, all those friends who live very well from the process. And do you intend to give lessons to other maneuvers – to the common ones, to Podemos and to the PSOE – from here, with the management they are doing? They also refuse to implement the necessary reforms because they also live very well with them. But if in the end I think they're identical. Many of these millions of euros, Mr Tremosa, do not have them because they have also gone through the sinkhole of the process, through the Catalan Bermuda Triangle with its three vertices. What are the three vertices of this Bermuda Triangle? The 3 percent corruption, which took a few, mismanagement and process. While all that happens in Catalonia, the workers, the self-employed and the SMEs have to wake up themselves without the government helping them, and not only that, but they also have to try to counter the sticks on the wheels that the government is putting on them. A government that has expelled more than five thousand companies. I would like to know your opinion of expelling five thousand registered offices from Catalonia, which expels investments – remember the European Medicines Agency, Mr. Counsellor – which accelerates deindustrialization, which generates division and confrontation in the citizenry. You yourself, at least so far, the only objective you have had, or one of those you had in Europe, was to speak ill of Spain. Or am I wrong, Mr. Tremosa? Spreading bubbles that were self-denial. When talking bad about Spain – you know it very well, because you know it very well and are a professor of economics – it is talking and harming a part of Spain, which is Catalonia. And now he tells them that he can't do anything, that it's all the fault of the Spanish government, that he's keeping the resources. Today the figure of what you call "Spain robs us" has risen to 100,000_million_euros, it seems to me, the collection of Catalonia. Are we going for the 100,000 million already? , compared to the 46,000 we have if we take the debt off. But don't notice that all that money is wasted money. Surely that is investments that have not been made, all are companies that have been expelled. All that devoting itself to other things, which has nothing to do with the well-being of citizens, are millions of euros that it does not have now, millions of euros that have been wasted and now it is when they are needed. Now is when they would have to return all that effort that families, self-employed people and SMEs have made; now he tells them there is no such effort. Families that, I also have to remind you, support the highest level of IRPF in all of Spain. The middle and working class is paying for their party, a party that goes against the Catalans' own interests. And some companies that, I also have to remind you, bear the largest number of taxes of their own in all of Spain : eighteen. All in order to be able to pay for his handouts. And that now you tell them, both to those families and to those companies, that they can do nothing, that they are spooked as until now, alone, but with a pandemic. And when you say that you want companies to hibernate, that you do it to do nothing, that you expect medicine to move forward, that you're a little bit the approach you have in spring, and when you say that you're not going to tweak the budget, what you really want to say, and what you're really doing, is to keep living in every rag, because you'll pay the duck the usual: Catalan families. Mr. Tremosa, today with this interpellation you are not convincing me; neither does music sound good to me, nor does the lyrics sound good to me. Thank you, Mr. Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.152.0	To make the reply, the counselor has the word another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.153.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Mr. Congressman, that the autonomy of the past few years cannot be made public deficit, by standards imposed on the assumption of control, and, therefore, the public debt of the Generality, that it is the result of acumulating deficits in the last few years, because of our deficit has not increased. If we had full capacity to collect taxes, this country could quickly discharge its debt. But, well, listen to me, there are now some elections, which, since the year 2012 we are living in Catalonia, will be plebiscites. Yeah, yeah, well, that's to say, that's to say, maybe the sovereign parties make 20 percent of the vote, or maybe 30 or 40 or 50, I don't know. I mean, it's been years since the independenceists here were very few, maybe now there's more than ever. I don't know, they'll decide millions of Catalans. Well, we'll see that, but a good part of this vote is driven by questions like these: who collects taxes in Catalonia. Why aren't tax balances published? Jo, who had written books on these themes in the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, recalled a debate with Ángel de la Fuente, a professor from l'Autonome, who said a very nice phrase: "If the state does not publish the fiscal balances, it will lose the debate out of incomparence. Any 2006, is published in Papers of Spanish Economy, Funcas. I think a lot about that phrase. And maybe that's where a lot of things started, and today we're here. So, look, I..., the Catalan economy, despite the problems it has in the public sector, so, it's had a few years..., this decade has been positive in many indicators. If you take and compare data from 2010 with data from 2019, in these two years, for example, Catalonia has tripled the multinationals: from 3,400 to 8,900 multinationals. It is a result that in many other places in the world you will find. This is data from the Action Census, which is the Office of the Generality that controls and registers these multinational companies. So, well, it's a very good result, and, in fact, for example, the 2019 year exports made a historical record, almost a 30_per_cent of GDP. Germany exports a 32_percent of GDP. It is a very good result, and that means that in the last few years the governments that have made it to Catalonia, that have made a clear bet to open the economy, to embrace multinationals, to facilitate investments, so they have not gone badly. And, here, I..., look, with the Spanish government in these six weeks that makes my advisor I have to say that I have found good collaboration. And, besides, I've publicly recognized it. For example, when I opened the academic course at the University of Lleida, Minister Castells made a contribution to the Catalan universities of Covid for the purpose of compensating extraordinary expenses in purchasing computers, etc., and I recognized it, and I said publicly: "I thank the Spanish Government for this transfer. Because I don't have any problems, and I say it here in your parliamentary office. Now, obviously, if one day these investments don't arrive, we'll say it with the same intensity. Therefore, I do not have any apprehensions and come to manage as well as I can, and we understand that the Spanish Government collects all taxes in Catalonia; therefore, while there is no other thing, we must hear each other. And that's why I said here last week that – one of my opinions – the Government of the Generality was to participate in the meeting of presidents, this conference that has been held there. Why? Because in theory there are interests of Catalans, and where the interests of Catalans are defended there must be the Government of the Generality. I suppose you agree with this approach, because I'm trying to find points with which we can hear each other, right? Then, in any case, clearly, Ciutadans rules with Vox in many places in the Spanish State. It is not the best presentation letter to the European Parliament. Their MEPs had a lot of problems explaining these issues. So, so, well, travel companies have them all, and they're not always nice, are they? But in your case, you could give us an explanation of that. Look, the situation is critical and very complicated. And we may be wrong to make decisions, which are not easy, but at least this government is acting willingly to be useful in measuring the instruments it has at its abst. So that's what we're trying to do, and we're going to go on until the last day of the legislature, because if he hasn't been president, there's going to be government until the last day. And I have also said this publicly: these months are very important, because they must be attentive to the distribution of funds coming from Europe, and they must generate, channel, raise, motivate Catalonia to present as many European funds as possible, basically from the business world. And that's what we spend a good part of our time on. And I have to say that there are extraordinary, fantastic, fabulous projects. This country has a great future. It has a great renewable, sustainable future, first level in data base management, information..., it has a great economic future. We must broaden the economic base, also political, but above all economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.154.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the proposal for a law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being processed in the Congress of Deputies]] [[300-00312/12]] The next question to the Government is about the proposed law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which deals with the Congress of Deputies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.155.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Workers of Parliament... I hope that you are not anachronistic that I will continue to report to you, because you relate to the inquiry that we present today from Junts for Catalonia to the Government on the proposed law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being dealt with in Congress. I hope you're not anachronistic, huh? The Catalan government went to exile, accompanied by the Basque government, at the end of the Civil War, fleeing the war and the future dictatorship that would end with republican democracy and autonomous governments. From exile, Basque and Catalan governments continue to help their citizens, and this created the refugee aid service. From 1938, the Spanish Government also organized exile and helped its citizens through the National Committee for Spanish Aid. But the precarious economic situation of the republican resistance made it very inefficient and necessary to ask the Basque and Catalan governments for help, denying them the economic transfers that they are looking for, and, finally, asking them for economic support. Until, in 1947, the government of the Republic in exile, presided over by the member of the Front Popular Diego Martínez Barrio, demanded the Basque government to suspend the program of assistance to the Basque refugees in the camp of Merinhac, near Bordeaux, because it created a situation of privileges respecting the Spanish refugees who did not receive the help for the incompetence of the Spanish government. Are they ringing? This situation of supposed privileges among citizens was what they argued when the CT dropped the Law of Poor Catalan Energy. A government, this government from the republic to exile, which showed that it was more Spanish than republic; wanted to support incompetence. Just as this Spanish government we have now, which with this proposal for you wants to show solidarity –"to homogenize, as they say to the law's proposal –, to homogenize the Emergencies and Bombers services because there are a few that, while they have the same skills as the Generality, they are not doing well. And the first thing to say is that Catalonia has exclusive competence in civil protection and a system of unique and world-class emergencies. It seems lied that a force which is said confederal, and which must defend a multi-national Spain, present this proposal of law which completely invades the competences of the Government of Catalonia. And what's more important: it doesn't bring much better, neither for the Bombers nor for the service they do to the citizenry. We are aware that there are things to improve in the fire department and in the emergency department. That is why this Parliament... In this Parliament we have debated, in the Committee on the Interior we have debated, we have put forward and voted on proposals for better, and I understand that the department is preparing a remodeling of the Catalan Law 5/1994, regulating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services of Catalonia, which I would like, counsel, which in fact refers to its intervention. The Catalan Emergencies and Bombers System is a proximity system that ensures that you have a fleet of firefighters every 20 minutes of any city to cover all the emergencies in Catalonia. A mixed system that combines functional firefighters, volunteer firefighters and enterprise firefighters, and that this proposal does not take into account. This proposal proposes that all bombers should be functional, which, apart from being impossible, is quite unreal. The system that the group of Podemos to Congress clearly presents atempta against the català model. That is why we were surprised that the Catalan MPs to the Congress of the PSOE and of We can vote without in favour of this proposal, because it is clearly time against the Catalan model. What are we going to do with the eighty volunteer fire parks we have? And with the firemen from the city of Barcelona? We are surprised that the mayor of Barcelona, of his own party, did not complain about the invasion of competitions that this represents. Maybe they haven't consulted him, like they haven't consulted the bombers or the representatives of these, the unions. Because from the Interunion until the Workers' Commissions were totally and unanimously opposed to this law proposal, warning of irreparable damage that would entail the application of this law. And it's that they wear it on the pretext of "coordinating a few services because there are communities that don't know everything, and still have the same skills that the Generality and being better funded, they're not doing well. And what they pretend, instead of coordinating, is to re-centralize; or, better said, to detail the competitions of Catalonia. The Bombers and Emergencies of the Generality of Catalonia are already co-ordinate, and are co-ordinate by means of a system of conveniences with other things and forces of the State and of different states. But its management has proved to be more effective because, it is true, the emergences do not know borders, just like the virus, but it has shown that management is more effective if it is more close, especially if it is from the disconnection and distance, homogenizing with six-hundreds of kilometers there. And I say when they're already coordinating with the Valencian Firemen, with the Firemen of the Aran Valley, with the Firemen of the French State. They already do. I have done coordinated work through the Rescue Network program, where all the agencies of emergencies – Mossos, Bombers, Rural Agents, the SEM – are integrated, who work together with other bodies and who do not need a general direction of firemen who claim the law's proposal, which coordination, coordination from the distance to homogenize this system. What should this general fire department coordinate? We don't understand. If you do not take into account these characteristics of the Catalan national system, what should you coordinate? That all the Spanish firefighters have the same uniform? That all speak the same common language that we have given each other, now that the Supreme also forbids us to communicate between administrations that speak Catalan? Is that what the general fire department should coordinate? This is his model of plural Spain, Lords of Podemos, is it to say, Lords of Catalonia in Comú Podemos? As we say in an article from Bombers for the Republic: either they don't know the reality or they want to boost it. Both things, which is much worse. Today, as in 1947 with Martínez Barrio, it is demonstrated that the Spanish Republicans, that the Spanish left is more Spanish than Republican, and more Spanish than left, when we spoke between left and right. They're more Spanish than Republicans and more Spanish than left. And that the only exit for a good future of Catalans is a propitious state, a state that respects and prioritizes the welfare of its citizens before homogeneous interests that respond not to the needs of the citizens and the claims that they could make – infra-financing, invasion of competitions–, but to the centralizing incompetence of Jacobin Spain. For these reasons, as we have explained, from Juntes to Catalunya we ask you, counselor, that from your department you defend our system for emergencies, that it takes forty years to advance the Spanish system, and protect our Bombers from the re-centralisation of the Spanish State, which would suppose its dissolution. And let me end this intervention by celebrating the acquittal of Major Trapero and the previous interior dome, while we regret with even more force still, by incongruent, the condemnation of Councillor Quim Forn and the rest of prisoners, political prisoners. Because it's incongruous, because this week we also knew that the Bureau, the previous Bureau of this Parliament, has also been condemned. Convicted for debate, for admission to court, for voting resolutions in this Parliament. And that we cannot accept, democracy cannot be judged. And we ask... above all, to make reference and a big hug and record to our deputy, our companion, to Lluís Guinó, who is still a deputy of this parliament. And, therefore, we demand that the general cause against independence be brought to an end. One more time, I can't finish this intervention without asking for freedom of political prisoners and exiles and free Catalonia visca. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.156.0	To answer the question, the word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Miquel Sàmper, has the word "Interior Counselor". Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.157.0	Good afternoon to everyone. President, Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament, Mrs Madaula's speech has followed, from my point of view, so extensive and enlightening that it practically obliges me to modify the words she had planned. I will begin by telling representatives who are accompanying us today from the Socialist Party and from the commons – the United Nations We can, in Madrid – that they are facing an important opportunity, which is that the parliamentary process that we have at the Congress of Deputies is now in the process of debate. I will try to convince them to you because at this stage of debate, both the Socialists Group, who voted in favour, as the group of the commons here in Catalonia are still able to get the sensitivities of the Catalan people – I think also of the Basque people – in the sense that they can still get that out of this law with an exemption to the country of Catalonia. Mirin, the law self-qualifies, in its presentation of motius, with an extension of legal, regulatory and even executive direction, with a general direction from the Ministry of the Interior. We are ahead of an authentic law of harmonization, another LOAPA. In this display of motius, principles such as national unity, the right to life and principles such as effectiveness and coordination are invoked. In these reasons the limitation of autonomous competitions in civil protection matters is justified. With respect to unity, we will talk later; with respect to the right to life, I believe that no one in Catalonia has to explain how to protect the lives of Catalans. But we're talking a little bit about what was the third motiu, effectiveness and coordination. I was told by MP Madaula. Catalonia's mixed model – professional and voluntary – has been stalled in our country since 1962, with the creation of the deputy bombers. Volunteers have a history since the 19th century, and we are, and so are, a referent who used to create the firefighter system of France, Germany and the United States. That's the reality. The Generality's Bombers are world-wide fire-extinguishing references. You will find it if you seek information respecting any Google website. We have coordination arrangements, and the Member said so, with Aragó, with València, with Andorra, with Vall d'Aran and with France. I mean, with all the territory that surrounds us. Absolutely with everything. We don't leave a crack. Mr Parés, respect Barcelona, which directly affects him, and the deputy also said: Barcelona has firefighters since the year 1835. They have managed with a model of success, with complete autonomy, self-management and have agreed with the Generality, with the Port of Barcelona and with the airport. I'm starting to get more executed. We don't need a direction set up in Madrid that decides on our guidelines, location, park locations, number of firefighters, or training guidelines, which, thanks to God, have been a long time, but very well since the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia. It is a very clear – very clear – accounted for by the competitions of public office; at the Barcelona Assembly, of one band; at the Generalitat, of another. The State will regulate the day, the times, the permissions, the remunerations. This is the stage. If we only have professional firefighters, which is what this law suggests, the half of the Generality Fire Department's staff will be removed. If we only have professional firefighters, the workforce will be expelled as – not only a few – control room operators, mid-air operators, forest prevention personnel, forest auxiliaries, personnel from outside companies such as helicopter pilots or aircraft pilots. All these are the consequences of this law that you have proposed in the Congress of Deputies. I am convinced, indeed, that when you did not know what the Catalan model was like. I'm not completely convinced. We all have our political differences, we all have our political lines, but what I don't know about the head is that We can, United We can, that the common Catalans did that they knew what our model was. They didn't know him. And, as they didn't know, they made a law of completely territorial Spanish abst, of abst throughout the Spanish State, and they weren't able to say: "Ostres, in Catalonia they have a model that works long ago that is world referent. I to the Basque Country, for example, too. I told them: they still have an opportunity. And, in fact, you, when I said it at first, you felt with your head. So I think we'll find some collaboration. The phase of the exams. You'll have, I'm telling you now, exhibitions from Catalonia and the Basque Country. Why? Because if something works, obviously, you don't have to touch it. I don't want to think that, after everything that's happened in Catalonia, there are indeed still recent trends, but what I obviously want to get out of my head is that you are the ones who are proposing them. Therefore, they ask you and the Socialist Group. What they have done is not minor, but it is reparable – it is reparable. Surely you, when you said so, thought that certain territories of the Spanish State did need it, did require it. Shoot him with the law. But please ask them to present that they are doing irreparable harm to Catalonia. [[feel a sneezing]] , do an irreparable evil – Jesus, deputy! – for example, to its assembly. I'm convinced that these words that I'm sure you agree with them are Mayor Colau. And, therefore, let's keep pulling back, rectifying it's wise, and give us the satisfaction of seeing that among all of us we have kept seeing that this was actually a mistake for the whole of the State, that it can be certain for one side, but that, in any case, it is applicable, it is desirable for Catalonia. Please, change it. They have a chance to do it now, and without a doubt, we'll thank them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the Green Agenda]] [[300-00313/12]] Let's go to the next inquiry, on the green agenda, presented for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. In order to expose her, has the parable of Mrs Marta Madrenas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.159.0	Too late for everyone. Benvolgut Counsellor, at the end of plenary, in fact, we have already introduced this topic of what we are talking about today. I did it through a question, but I think that, in fact, this subject... we are convinced, from Junts per Catalunya, that it pays the penalty that we keep talking about it and that we talk about it a lot. And, therefore, today we are asking this question. In fact, we are talking about the green agenda, but as I am talking about talking in Parliament, you allow'myself that you make a parentheses, because precisely yesterday he was able to intervene in this very same Full Friend and companion Lluís Guinó, deputy Lluís Guinó, who has gone on to make this shameful long list of retaliatory independenceists, political reprisals for the Spanish State, and to whom I want to give my explicit support, to him and to all the members of the Bureau of Parliament. The structures of the Spanish State have again defrauded the Catalans. The Catalans again prove that it is not through the ballot box that they decide who represents the Parliament or not. I'm taking over the wire. Because here in Parliament we need to talk, we need to talk a lot and we need to talk about everything. And from Juntas to Catalonia we want to talk – and we always do, here – about everything that I suppose progress and improvement of the state of the well-being for Catalans. For this reason, and also from the compromise we stand by Juntes for Catalonia to preserve the environment, we think we need to talk about the green agenda again today. We must accept that there is still – and it is true – someone who does not want to recognize that humanity is immersed in a climate emergency. Certainly, some still do not understand that if we do not change, we are compromising future generations. Nevertheless, it is also true that a good part of the country is compromised by the preservation of the environment and sustainability. I understand you're undeniable, that last one. In Catalonia, in addition, we have a long political tradition that, although we can certainly list some examples of those that we cannot be proud of in all these thirty, forty years later, it is true that it has kept a very early look at the need to preserve the environment and the cure of natural spaces, and, more recently, towards the climate emergence and on the effects so brutally harmful that it has in the context of humanity the climate change. If we make a little memory, we remember that it was already the year 91 – the year 91 – that was born in Catalonia the Department of Environment, our Department of Environment, that was the first department of these characteristics that implemented a government of southern Europe. A department that was already in charge of taking care of biodiversity, of natural spaces and of this difficult – which is now back in the work of the joints – managed the waste, managed the water. So, it's been thirty years since he put a wire in the needle here. And when we say from Junts per Catalunya that we could be a state ahead of Europe, here's an example. I already know that some members of this hemisphere do not trust our capabilities as a country and that, in change, they trust them in the Spanish State. But if we compare what we have done to each other and what we have done to each other, among the other merits of these others, that of hiding our environmental policies with the invaluable help of the Constitutional Court..., then if we compare ourselves to each other, it is certain that we lack it..., that comparison is impossible. There's no comparison. We have a leadership – and we have to keep it, that we are doing it, and we have to empower –, and we have some scandalously precarious, very minute skills, legislative capacity every time reduced, limited and painted a fiscal wisdom, which we have already mentioned to us, above all some advisors, and which prevent us, with the resources that we generate ourselves, from making the investments that we ourselves need to build this society every time more sustainable. And today, by luck, society is mostly aware that climate change is a reality. And here they have had a lot to see the entities, associations, these environmental activists entities, which I cannot list here today, but with whom the country's joint venture, indeed, we are also in debt, since thanks to its always resolution and criticism in a positive sense, many have understood that we need to take action, and that we need to do so now, and that it is a priority issue for our political agenda. And it's true that every time more Catalans are willing to put their smile on, and they do so with an absolutely responsible behavior in their day to day. But it is equally essential that our government, its department, and so does it, not just the company, to the responsible citizen, but that, in addition, it must motorize and harvest rape with these activist entities that, I say again, deserve our thanks for this evolution. I continue to point out that we believe in the defence of the environment in Catalonia. In 2010, for example, we integrated territorial and public policies with environmental policies. It is true that there were the last few years before the integration some tensions between councils; always that of Medi Ambient ended up feeling the secondary area in the government and, therefore, thanks to this decision we once again became pioneers, and in fears that together for Catalonia we believe that they are responsible: reduction of gases of winter effect, bet for renewable energies or the incorporation of this theme, of this maximum, that "who is more stupid, more paid. However, we cannot overlook the role of the State that has always had in this evolution and that we understand insufficient – we understand insufficient. And it never fails: when we always want to advance up to this Spanish state – yes, MP Madaula, we agree – centralizer and short-sighted to make us back again. And we see it every day, as we have now seen in Barcelona with the underside of the maritime front, where the same parties, the PSC and the commons, who share a government at one place and at another are able to promise one thing here and, at the time of doing it, to do it completely from Madrid. Between the interests of the Barcelonans and the needy recaptatórias of the State, PSC and common is clear that they have chosen, and the citizens of Barcelona have not been. That's not what they chose. The state has made a big deal, 90 million that they pick up here and that they'll go back there again, and so they don't come back. Because we all know that this money beneath the barcelons won't see a single euro. And it's that before, like at least, they did the same thing, but they were hiding and making false promises that they would eventually go back here, but it's that now they haven't even hidden, they haven't even said it, that these money will go back here. And we can't afford that. Let's go back to the facts. In Catalonia we are living in the first line that supposes this scalf of the planet with facts like the Francolí, the temporary Gloria, that have left us destroyed, unfortunately, every time much more common. And that's terrible, and we need to take bold, forceful and immediate action. And here we all have to feel questioned. From the local world we also have to work with this goal and, in this sense, encourage all the municipalities that are committed and subscribe to the Mannheim Mission, a local commitment, explained with the European Green Deal. And now the pandemic has arrived and it has brought us to an economic, health, and social crisis. Many citizens of Catalonia are experiencing situations that are absolutely difficult, dramatic and complicated. And the reception to get us out of it Europe told us, and from Juntes to Catalonia we share it: investment, investment in the sectors of the future, in the global reptes, like that of the climate emergency. We understand the green agenda as an environmental development engine, and also economic, key to getting out of this crisis. Last May, Coreco was set up – the Committee on Economic Recovery and Social Protection, as we all know, Coreco – which does this, precisely: reactivate the country's economy with a sustainable, digital, searchable vision. The result was a plan, a reactivation plan for Catalonia of 31,000_millions – which I said the other day only 31_millions – of which more than half are for investments linked to sustainability. Therefore, Catalonia is already paying its dues. We've already detected who our priorities are and the strategic projects you've seen for years. The difficulty we have now is that we lack finance, lack finance now will arrive from Europe; 140,000_million, we must arrive from Europe. These funds must be used to finance these and other Coreco projects, so that they can cope with the crisis arising from the Covid. So, counselor, it makes us feel bad, it makes us feel that these moneys actually arrive where they have to arrive. Here in Catalonia they have done their dues, it has not exactly remained the same. How has the European Green Deal, this European green pact been transferred to the policies of the department? He's known, but it's important that in his parliamentary office, too, so let's talk about it again. But we would also like to be able to share with us what are the axes on which this full economic growth path is held for people, families and Catalan businesses for the coming years. And finally, we'd like to know what it's like to get your department to respect these European foundations that have to come. Which projects linked to the ecological transition should be covered by this funding? And why? How do you think these moneys are distributed? And how can we do that because they finally arrive in Catalonia and that is taken as a function of the real economic return that supposes these projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.161.0	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Members, Members, honourable Member, the Department of Territories and Sustainability has, among its strategic objectives, since the minute or this legislature, the creation of opportunities, the generation of territorial conditions to improve the lives of people, families, businesses in the country. But to do so in a socially just and environmentally and economically sustainable environment. We work for a Catalonia, in the day, of abst resilient and just. With the crisis of the Covid economic recovery and social protection have been absolutely priorities for the government. We've shown it to Coreco, you're in the middle of something. And, therefore, here we are incardinating that we are designing and driving a green agenda, the Green Agenda Catalonia 2030, which must help us to recover economically, as we work to deal with the social consequences that the health emergency has brought. Europe has assigned us the path to combat climate change and to recover from the effects of the pandemic under the so-called 'European Green Pact'. This green pact is the strategy of economic growth based on an efficient use of resources, the reduction of gas emissions with winter effects, the modernisation of the productive sectors, the very important protection of natural capital, that is, natural heritage and biodiversity and the increase of climate ambition, of this climate action that must reverse the effects of climate change. The first time he spoke of the green agenda was to use the expression "Green New Deal", therefore, "new green agenda, evoking Roosevelt's New Deal". It was at the beginning of the 2008 Great Recession on the part of a British thinker's glue, huh? I insist: this came from Roosevelt's New Deal of 29, and it was not a proposal for action, but for structural reforms. That's substantial, huh? All right, There's a lot to talk about, then. There was the conviction that it was necessary to transform – the word was "transform" – the production model and to finance some new parameters that would break with the linear view, short-term extractive and little equitable, in short, where the dominant economic model had evolved. And it's going to say – and that's wrong of us, of all folds – that he did more drill, say, in debates than in politics, huh? – all the wrong company. When it became apparent that we were entering a climate emergency, that the strategies, said, contemporary, based on some well-intentioned incentivities did not avoid – because they did not avoid it – the threat of global warming. Again, at that time, there was a need for far-reaching structural reforms. And now let's talk about it again, let's talk about it a little bit more now that we need to recover from the brutal impact that the pandemic has had, has and will continue to have on our lives and our economy for a while. It is clear, therefore, that the economy of the future cannot continue to rotate in those elements which, after bringing – and this is undeniable – prosperity, have also become a threat to the future continuity of this prosperity and, above all, its distribution in an equitable manner, without factors, so-called structural inequalities. The time for big debates has passed and the time for great performances has come. Some actions that cannot be, say, an aggregate of projects, but must constitute a programme – let's go back – of profound reforms, structural reforms, transformative ones that allow us to move forward rapidly, in steps that lead to a more sustainable, forward-looking, resilient and equitable society and economy. This is the bet, precisely, this is the European Union's bet with its Green Deal, a bet that comes from before the pandemic. The President of the European Commission already made this proposal for the start of a mandate and, in fact, there is a committee of the European Commission dedicated exclusively to this issue; all a declaration of Europe's intentions. And, in fact, now, in what is the management of economic recovery, it's reinforced. It is reinforced because in the design of the fund package for recovery of the crisis – which the pandemic has caused this crisis – we see clearly. You mentioned the figures that the European Commission has between its hands and how they affect us, how they affect the Spanish State and how they affect us – then I will refer to the background. We have also joined some of the good beginnings of this European settlement. And now, obviously, we're looking at this reinforcement through cohesion with a lot of interest. The Green Agenda for Catalonia 2030, for which we mark this time of two years, is obviously not in the void. Previous initiatives have occurred that are in line with philosophy, and that are now to be nurtured and converged. You refer to some: the very creation of the Environment Department; of the Climate Change Office; the Climate Change Law – certainly, used for the Spanish State, which still does not have climate change law, but it has been working to seek ours –; now the Department of Territories and Sustainability. But other important elements, too, right? For example, the Urban Agenda – you also know it well, with its aspect of mayor–; the same Climate Change Law and all derivatives, i.e., the tax on vehicles or CO2 emissions from vehicles, the setting up of foundations to manage this same tax, the new mobility policies – from the first Climate Action Summit, which we celebrated for Sant Antony, the 17th generation – in this summit we called, above all, to the purchase of energy from the cities of Barcelona – the first Climate Action Summit, which we celebrated for Sant Antony, the 17th generation – in this very concrete situation, in particular, to the purchase of energy from the cities of Barcelona – the first Climate Action Summit, which we celebrated for Sant Antony, the 17th generation – in this Parliament, but rather, at the same time, to the purchase of energy from the cities and institutions in order to bring about a better understanding of the natural heritage, in the past, and in the past. For example, everything that refers to the circular economy or to the resilient management of the coast. And I want to open parentheses, I also respond to your reference to coastal management, because sustainability is also good planning, it's also good planning; say what can be done and what cannot be done at every place. And this includes the Pla urbanistic director of non-sustainable soils; tourism investments are played – we play –, for example, the CRT of Vila-seca and Salou, or intervene on the coast, not to leave it to a sub-market, as does the most progressive government of history with the maritime front of Barcelona – certainly with the silence of the Barcelona government of commons and PSOE. It is also sustainability to plan when and how to play, and in the case of the coast of Barcelona we see a very obvious example. I insist: all this comes from before and will continue after the pandemic. The Department of Lands and Sustainability is integrating the previous initiatives to which I referred, giving them more ambition and filling the gaps that may exist in order to have a complete structural reform programme. We have before us not an aggregate of small or small, medium and large projects, but a real structured plan with this concept of "green agenda in the time of the year 2030. Now, just like the European Union, we also believe that what is in concrete terms the recovery plans of the pandemic must be vertebrate around the philosophy of the green agenda, and therefore, in the Korean – the so-called Coreco – we have not only included projects that are clearly part of a green agenda, but that have, this part of the green agenda, a very considerable size. In fact, as the Government is not doing anything that has not been asked of us in Europe, it is to say, to put the ecological transition at the center of our policies of recovery, economic recovery. You refer to the xifra: 31,000..., to round up, 32,000_million euros. This is what has been assumed in the plan approved by the Government, divided into five axes: economy for life, economic transition, knowledge society, digitisation and what is called ‘cross-cutting', in which regulatory issues are embedded. And one-for-two euros from this Coreco plan – one-for-two euros from this plan – are the green agenda. We, you said, have done our best, know what the road is to these structural reforms that must make us a sustainable, fair and resilient country. And, concretely, the 2030 Catalan Green Agenda is based on the eight axes of the European Union's Green Deal: climate action; net energy; circular industry; green agenda; urban agenda, with a very special chapter for the rehabilitation of buildings and habitats– we therefore intend to incorporate more energy efficiency into the country's housing stock–; intelligent mobility– for example, with more and better rail networks, to complete those that we have already planned and that are now facing an economic impulse to be able to end them–; it obviously preserved biodiversity; zero contamination. With four engines, huh? , are eight axes with four engines: decarbonization, circularization, digitization and intelligent regulation. These four engines must be present in all the public policies of the department and the government, also through going to check lists of the follow-up of the Sustainable Development Goals, which are also a government referent. And finally talking about European recovery, those who have to help us with this post-pandemic recovery, this green reconstruction. In fact, the plan for the recovery of the Spanish economy is also said, and this one that has been named 'Spain can: one of the four great axes is the ecological transition. We have a reference to it. You were expressly asking for these funds, recovery funds that will allow you to get up to 140,000_millions– 72,000 in the form of transfers and subtract it through loan. Since the government we have been complaining – I will end immediately, President –, I personally did it a few days ago with Minister Ábalos, who was in Barcelona, that the department is transparent, that it follows criteria of economic return, that they do not, as always, make a coffee for everyone. In Catalonia we have done Coreco, we have analyzed the projects that will allow us to recover and we are making this green agenda that will be the instrument. The green agenda will bring us from the crisis, we have no doubt, and it will help us build a better world. Before the Covid we knew that the green transition was an obligation. After the Covid we're after the solution. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.162.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand that there is no reply to the inquiry. [[Ask the Government about the use of languages in public communication media]] [[300-00314/12]] Therefore, we turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government about the use of languages in public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word the deputy Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.163.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The late maids, deputies, deputies, counselors, counselors. According to article 3 of the Spanish Constitution – and I quote textually – "Spanish is the official language of the State". And in the following point in the same article he adds: "The other Spanish languages, also official in the respective autonomous communities, according to their statutes... If I have started my intervention citing the Spanish Constitution it is because it is the most important law of this country and, because of a question of normative hierarchy, all the others are subject to it. Let us now see what our Statute of autonomy with regard to languages says. Article 6 states: "The language of Catalonia is Catalan. As such, the Catalan language is the normal and preferred language of public administrations and public communication media in Catalonia, and it is also the language normally used as a vehicle for learning and teaching. And the preferred adjective appears in red and with a short note of page that says: "This expression is unconstitutional and null, according to sentence 31/2010. Of course, when reading this, to any Democrat the first thing that comes to mind is: if it is unconstitutional and is null, why do they keep it? Why do Catalans always have to suffer from governments that believe above the law? And that 'preferential' is unconstitutional because Spanish is the official language of the country and no other language can pass over, either in Spain or in any other democracy in the world, but that is precisely the problem, that in Catalonia many things that are unthinkable in the rest of the world's democracies happen. To begin with, we have the concept of 'own language', that nationalist genius that they do not know or recognize in any other country, except Andorra. And why do I say that my own language is a nationalist engineer? Because it is an ill-conceived plan, design or intellectual work, which is the definition that the RAE gives us for the concept, and because, indeed, it is the work of Catalan nationalism. « Own language appears for the first time in 1933 in the Statute of Internal Regime of Catalonia and then return to it for the Statute of Autonomy. And since Catalan nationalists are genuine marketing experts – because I recognize that – other autonomy statutes also copied them and appear, for example, in the Balearic Statute, in the Basque or Valencian. And it has even bought them the concept of the Government of Spain, which adhered to the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, which, despite the rumbling of the name, is, as always, the association friends of nationalism. Come on, the usual in Catalonia. By the way, that at that time he ruled Aznar, because the reality is that, when it comes to allowing nationalists to do barbarities, it doesn't matter whether he rules the PP or the PSOE. He told them that, despite the rumbling of the name, the universal declaration, of universal, has nothing, because there is no country in the world – except Andorra – that uses that nationalist genius, which is its own language, which has neither feet nor head. Of course, it is not used in linguistics, because to name the languages historically established in a space – which is the definition of this supposedly universal declaration – it is used« vernacular language, which is indeed a universally recognized concept. So, if there is a concept that is used all over the world, why is another one invented that doesn't understand anyone outside of here? Because what they're interested in is that there's a part of the population that speaks their own language, huh? That's the good one, the one that's good. And then there's another part of the population that speaks an improper language, huh? That's not worth us here because it's improper, we already have our own. They will agree with me that dividing society like this is repulsive. But it is also that Catalan is not the mother tongue of most Catalans, i.e. those who use the concept of their own language are telling most Catalans that their language is inappropriate, that their language here is not valid. The truth is that I don't think of anything that could divide a society more than telling some people who speak a language of their own and others who speak an improper language. Of course, few governments would think of telling their citizens that they speak an improper language, and that is why no one, outside of here, uses that child. And I say "gendrous because it is that the RAE does not even have an entry in order to be able to define what is" its own language, and it does have it the Catalan Encyclopedia, but it does not even dare to outline a meaning of the concept itself, and it simply describes its use. I quote literally: "Legal concept with which it is called the Catalan language in different statutes and language legislation. This is not what I say, this is not what Citizens say, this is what the Catalan Encyclopedia says: « own language only serves to call Catalan – and, to add, Basque – in different legal texts. Is he or is he not a nationalist? Well, I think it's clear that it is. What is the meaning of a concept that is used only for a couple of languages of the world? For his only sense is nationalist, there is no other, there is no other country that uses it. But, of course, a country belongs to each language in the nationalist worldview. Just as there are seven thousand languages in the world and countries do not reach two hundred, you in your heads have a language of your own and that gives you the right to have a country. And, look, don't be mistaken, you don't want the Catalan any more than anyone else, on the contrary, you use it for your partisan purposes, and you're not the great defenders of the Catalan, on the contrary, you're doing a horrible damage to the Catalan, because you're using it as a language of imposition. Although it is clear that the concept of its own language is a nationalist engineer who is not used outside of here, in Més 324 there was a debate entitled "The health of Catalan in which the three guests claimed that it is a concept used in international sociolinguistics, and the three accused me of lying. To all this, of course, I was not there to be able to defend myself and explain to the spectators – who obviously do not have to be philologists – that is not an internationally recognized concept. Counselor, how do you feel about that lack of plurality on TV3? I know that when I come out here, the mantra will let go of the fact that TV3 is the most plural television in the whole universe, but for once in my life, I would ask you to be able to go beyond the mantra, to see if you can, and to analyze this concrete fact: a debate with three people who are claiming that the concept of their own language is internationally recognized, even though it is a lie, and no one to defend the opposite position. And, look, I see he's really funny about everything I'm saying, which I'm glad about. If I am the one who is wrong, now, when I come out here, I imagine you will quote books and articles from other countries other than Spain and Andorra where the concept of their own language appears, right? He's going to tell me how he translates into German, how he translates into English, how he translates into French, or how he translates into Italian, because I already tell him that's that in those languages they don't even know how to translate it. But, well, maybe you know a lot more than I do, and now you explain it to us. And the problem is not only that this invented concept serves as an excuse to want to separate us from the rest of Spain, the problem is also the barbarities that we Catalans have to suffer with the excuse that Catalan is their own language, such as, for example, fine people who label their business as they want, in the language they want. You're fined. Beyond the contempt they show for all the Catalans that, in your opinion, we speak an improper language, that contempt for what former President Torra called « beasts with a tara in DNA. Another of the trophies they make with the excuse of their own language is the contempt for the mother tongue of most Catalans in the public media. And go ahead that it is obvious that in the face of the great offer of Spanish-language media it is normal for the autonomous media to bet on Catalan, and go ahead also that it is evident that both TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio have done a great service in the diffusion of Catalan. That's great, there's no problem there. Where is the problem? The problem is to convey the idea that Catalonia's only language is Catalan, and therefore Spanish has no place in the Catalan public media. On TV3 we have come to situations as sharp as that the mayor of Barcelona ends up acting as a translator because the presenter refuses to speak Spanish to a Colombian politician, who, of course, does not understand Catalan. Counselor, do you agree that TV3 is showing such rudeness? And I know they've changed the FAQS presenter, but they haven't changed their uses, and the new FAQS presenter boasts that in her program under no circumstances does she stop speaking in Catalan. Madam Counsellor – who is not looking at me and is not looking after me – do you like that militant monolingualism of...? Yes, I imagine you're asking for an article; if I already tell you that they don't exist, but well, you keep trying. What is the problem that some TV3 presenters set such a bad example for Catalan society? As its spectators end up assimilating that Spanish is an improper language on TV3 and ends up harassing anyone who dares to speak Spanish on TV3. And this happened to a colleague of ours, to a worker in this Parliament, who was asked to be fired for daring to answer in an interview on TV3 in Spanish. From here I would like to express my full support and that of my group for this exemplary worker in this Parliament. [[Some applause.]] And I also want to ask you: how do you feel about asking a partner to be fired for the simple fact of speaking Spanish on TV3? And you know what they got out of this? Divide Catalan society, which sees TV3 or not according to its language. And the data is so overwhelming that they leave no room for doubt: 80_per_cent of Catalan speakers watch TV3, but only 16.5_per_cent of Spanish speakers watch TV3. Mrs Budó, what do you think has expelled almost 85_percent of Catalans who have Spanish as their mother tongue from Catalan public television? We believe that the Catalan media pay them among all and have to be of all, let us speak the language we speak. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.164.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has now the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.165.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Mrs. Sierra, first of all, I would like to thank you that on behalf of your group I again make an inquiry about the public communication media and the use of languages. Unfortunately, however, I find it difficult to know that this inquiry does not go so far as to talk about how we face the challenges that this public service has before these new realities, how we can transform this public service, this sector, before the new consumption habits and the technological advances, but that, unfortunately, you are once again asking around what your obsession is, which is the language of this country, which is the attack on the Catalan language. Miri, you like it or you don't like it, "Your own language is an internationally recognized legal concept. And in Catalonia I must also say that we have more than two-hundred mother tongues. There are more than two hundred mother tongues in Catalonia. And, like at least, let me tell him that his determination to generate a conflict around the Catalan language is worrying. But, as I always say, reality is coughing up. Miri, Catalunya, whether they like it or not, it's a plural country. Catalonia is a cobbled country. And I'll give you some real data about Catalonia's public communication media. During the 2019-2020 season the percentage of population that has connected as a minimum with the corporate media is 93_per_cent. And if we're talking specifically about TV3, we're talking about 6.2 million people, or so, 85 percent of the population has connected at some point to TV3. This, Mrs. Sierra, is the real Catalonia, which has no way of conflict because of language and which values public communication media very positively. And as for the use of language, let's review what exactly the Statute of Autonomy says and, as you said, Article 6. He says: « Catalonia's own language is Catalan. As such, the Catalan language is the normal and preferred language of public administrations, of the public communication means of Catalonia, and it is also the language normally used as a vehicle and learning in teaching. And, in this sense, and in accordance with the Statute, we have the Language Policy Law, which also clearly states that català must be the language of institutional communication media. And, in concrete terms, Law 1/1998, which in its second article tells us: "Catalan is Catalonia's own language and singularity as a people. Catalonia, as in its own language, is the language of all the institutions of Catalonia, and in particular of the Administration of the Generality, of the Local Administration, of the public corporations, of the enterprises and of the public services, of the institutional communication media, of the teaching and of the toponymy. And, precisely, the first thing to remember is that the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, in compliment of the Statute, in compliment of the Catalonia Audiovisual Communication Law, in compliment of the law owning the Corporation, in compliment of the mandate of the Parliament and in compliment of the current programme contract, has commissioned the mission to offer a quality public audiovisual service in catalá, compromised with the ethical and democratic principles and with the promotion of Catalan and Aranian culture and languages. In this way, public audiovisual media contributes to normalizing the use of language and consolidating the oral and written Catalan standard with respect for dialectal variation, since its language model encompasses different geographical and registry varieties adapted to the different communicative situations to reach a broad and heterogeneous public. And as many times from his group criticizes that the media do not follow the style book – we have also felt it many times –, I want to focus on what is the regulation of the use of català in the corporate style book. And it is that the same book expresses the compromise with the promotion and with the promotion of the catalá, and it does so regulating its use taking into account both the dialectal diversity and the multilingual reality of our society. As I always say, the media in the body are a tool for linguistic and cultural promotion and have a vocation to promote knowledge and use of Catalan language. Therefore, yes, the Catalan language is the vehicle language, the professional language, the fixed employees and, in general, all contracted persons make use of the Catalan language in antenna interventions, and the contents, whether or not they are in production, are in Catalan. But the style book also specifies respect for the language expression of external participants. What? So, look, if we're talking about the linguistic uses in which statements or veils are made, both in català and in castella, they're always in the original language, that's to say, without translation. And the rest of the languages, when they are neither in Catalan nor in Castle, so they translate into the Catalan language and, moreover, whenever possible, they let the original voices feel, as at least at the beginning and at the end of the intervention. That's what he does to the scope of statements. And if we talk about linguistic uses in spaces of participation and debate, then, look, as well as the style book, in spaces of participation such as now tertules, debates or contests, in interaction, the drivers, yes, express themselves in català. Now, that the moderator did not change language does not get that it is respect for the linguistic expression of the participants who serve the language they prefer without any problem. And as for the linguistic uses in a third area, concretely in entertainment and fiction spaces, it always works, always looking for the balance between the freedom of creation and the mission of linguistic normalization to achieve quality contents. But, above all, do you know what we really need to highlight? So that public audiovisual media achieves both normalization of our language and plurality and independence in opinions and contents. But, of course, for you the problem is always about normalization and linguistic immersion. And I ask them: how are they against the normalization of the català? How do they not see or admit that language normalization is a key element of social cohesion? Or how they do not see or admit that they are concerned about the risk situation of the Catalan language? I'd like you to answer those questions. Miri, UNESCO, precisely, proposes a methodology to assess the degree of truth and danger of disappearance that a language is running, and in this methodology that UNESCO proposes in certain new factors: the transmission of the idiom from one generation to the other, the absolute name of its speakers, the proportion respects the total population, the changes in the idiom's usage habits or, for example, the ability to react before the new activities and the communication media, among others. As you see, the factors that determine UNESCO are precisely the factors that work with normalization and linguistic immersion and, curiously, they are the factors that from the Ciutadan Group always criticize and question. And precisely, among all these factors, and for the concrete subject of this inquiry, one of the points that UNESCO speaks about is the adaptation to our backs and its use in communication media. And in this sense, the data is clear. For a band, if we look at the set of communication means that we get the Catalans, it is unquestionable that the offer in the castle is much higher than the offer in the catalá; it only needs to be zàping. And, on the other hand, if we talk about the new audiovisual platforms and social networks, we can see the practical disappearance of the catalá in these areas. And, therefore, before this reality, I think we should agree on a repte, on an opportunity and on a demand, as at least. The challenge is to get suppliers of attractive and quality catalative content. Opportunity: for example, that Apple makes speak and hear the català to Siri. And the demand: that Spanish Television in Catalonia amplified the català graella. And allow me, to finish this first part of this inquiry, that I want to make clear the recognition to our model of public communication media for your task in the normalization of the catalá. A task which, in the sense of doubt, goes beyond the strictly linguistic sphere to enter the social and Community sphere. Because the normalization of catalá is a key element for social cohesion and for making Catalonia a country of opportunity for everyone. And I also want to make a reassessment of public communication media for its plurality and impartiality. Because, indeed, if public communication means are essential in any democratic country, they are still more essential as a result of the difficult situation of repression in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.166.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.167.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, Counselor, you have not been able to quote me either a book or an international article. There is no point in making statements and then not proving them. Nor did you tell me what you think of lynching a fellow Member of this Parliament. Well, in fact, he hasn't answered one of my questions, he's just reading what he already had written. That, by the way, it is noted that you have not listened to me; that is, you have not only not answered me, it is that, obviously, you have not even listened to me, because I had not much to do with what I was saying with what you have said. It is necessary to know how to have a little more parliamentary waist and to be able to adapt to what the interlocutor says. On the other hand, in the debate on the language of Més 324 which I spoke to them in my first part, we discovered who was preparing the speeches to the former Councillor of Culture, who before she was removed from office said in this Chamber exactly the same words as one of the linguists invited in that program, and one of the things she said is that there are three own languages in Catalonia: Catalan, Aran and the Catalan sign language. And the truth is that I was very surprised to quote the language of signs, because, if there is an abused language in Catalonia, that is the language of Catalan signs. If there is a language in danger of extinction in Catalonia – and look at the data – that is the Catalan sign language. Because in Catalonia there are about thirty_ thousand deaf people, but there are only seven_ thousand who know the language of Catalan signs. And why is the Catalan sign language in danger of extinction? For the ill-treatment to which the governments of Convergence and Esquerra Republicana have been subjected during all these years. When a family has a deaf child, it is not informed or offered the opportunity to learn the Catalan sign language, which for the deaf at birth is their mother tongue, as many studies show. This leads them to language deprivation syndrome, which has dire consequences for their personal and academic development. In addition, the vast majority of Catalan deaf pupils cannot have a Catalan sign language education. If all this were not enough, when a deaf person wants to come to this Parliament to meet his political representatives, either they have to pay an interpreter out of his pocket, or we have to pay that interpreter to the parliamentary groups. The truth is, I can think of a few things that are more discriminatory than this. From Citizens we have repeatedly asked for payment to Catalan sign language interpreters and there is no way. What do you think of this linguistic discrimination, here in Catalonia, and more specifically in this Parliament, Counsellor? Unlike, for example, the Parliament of Extremadura, which has a permanent group of interpreters to broadcast live fulls and commissions, in Catalonia deaf people cannot participate in political life on equal terms. [[The speaker makes a part of the sign language intervention.]] Deaf people have the right to participate in politics, but right now I am talking to them and they cannot access this information. And I suppose you will tell me that in Catalonia there has been a Catalan sign language for ten years, and it is true, but it has not been deployed in these ten years, and, moreover, year after year they leave it without budget. In fact, in recent budgets, Citizens asked for a budget line for the Catalan Sign Language Act, and do you know what the parties that support them did? Do you know what Junts for Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana did? Vote against providing the Catalan language with a budget. On the other hand, you referred to the different languages spoken in Catalonia. Well, according to the last Idescat, 53_per_cent of Catalans have Spanish as their mother tongue, 31_per_cent have Catalan and almost 3_per_cent have both. That is, that all those hundreds of languages that are spoken in Catalonia, and that you use to try to erase from the map the Spanish-speaking, are the languages of only 13_per_cent of the population, very respectful, of course, with that 13_per_cent of the population. But I do not think it can be compared with the case of Castilian, who is the mother tongue of most Catalans. Among these languages is Arabic, with 2_per_cent of the population, and Romanian, with 1_per_cent. The rest of those hundreds of languages don't even reach zero_per_cent. Counselor, do you really believe that we can bring the mother tongue of 53 percent of the population with the mother tongue that does not reach zero percent of the population to the same level? Do you really think that makes sense? And, well, you always say – it's a classic in you – that Citizens were born to end the linguistic immersion, but the funniest thing is that you say it as if that were something bad. Listen, because I understand that you are from a conservative party that intends to maintain a model that is over forty years old, but understand that we are a progressive group that we want to improve the situation and we want a more modern system. Do you know how education has changed in these forty years? You continue to claim an obsolete and obsolete model, it is in your right, but let others opt for a more modern, fairer and more equitable system with more vehicle languages. And, look, it's over. I have spoken in Catalan, Spanish, Arabic and sign language in this Chamber. How many languages have you spoken in this Chamber? It's a little bit to see who respects Catalonia's linguistic plurality and who doesn't. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, you have the word "counsel" for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.169.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mrs Sierra, in Catalan, in Castilian and in Arabic. Not in sign language, because I hardly know it, but in català, in castle and in orange I have addressed words from this Faristol in this Parliament. I'll ask you something, Mrs. Sierra: Do you know who Mr. Fernand de Varennes is? So, miri..., it sounds, that name? Fernand de Varennes, Mr Varennes, is the Special Rapporteur on minority issues of the UN Human Rights Council, and in his report just three months ago he strongly denounced the Spanish State's attitude towards Catalan language. And, frankly, look, what it is to expect from a parliamentary group of this chamber is that they still demand who violates the rights of minorities. I don't mean, in cases that affect us as the UN reports say. It is clear that, unfortunately, experience shows us that some groups of this chamber, among them yours, Mrs. Sierra, do not give any consideration or legitimacy to the reports of the UN working groups. But do you know what Mr Varennes says in this report? So, incidentally, it makes plans that almost a year ago also formulated the Council of Europe in the later recommendation that it made to the state to propose the fifth report of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. And, in its document, the European Committee of Ministers places in value realities that conform to the Catalan model, as is the support for the Catalan school's language model and the consortium's cohesive role for Linguistic Normalization. And, for another band, it puts these realities into value, and it also assigns with great concern that the instruments adopted by the Catalan Government to promote the use of Catalan language in parallel with the castle are challenged judicially. And, look, I will not list the amount of non-compliance that the State owes to it and the amount of immediate action that the Committee of Ministers asks the Spanish State for. If you are interested, I can consult it on both the UN and the Council of Europe web pages. But what is undeniable is that the ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages by the Spanish State commits him to apply the highest degrees of protection of the respective languages different from the castle where they are official. And at this point, Mrs. Sierra, it's where you really should be, in the Spanish state's demand for the protection of languages that are different from the castle. And all the contrary: you continue with your mistreating and fighting against the Catalan language. Miri, I... will allow you to make two recommendations: a book and a singer. And I'll do it without going beyond everything that you've expressed in this pharystoll, and I won't take into account the forms you've expressed yourself with, Mrs. Sierra; I feel more like not going in there. I will do it, in a positive way – I think it will be fine – two recommendations: that of a book and that of a singer. As for the book, I invite you to read I explain, the book of President Puigdemont – that is, a whole success of sales not only in Catalonia, but the rest of the Spanish State. So, look, I'll tell you one thing: if you read this book, on page 97 you'll find the first conversation between Mr. Albert Rivera and the president, where Mr. Rivera admits the error of the conflict they generated with the català and says they don't think about going on this path. Well, in fact, this inquiry proves exactly the opposite. And, as I said, I would also like to recommend a singer: you know Dave Zulueta, this twenty-three-year-old from Cadiz who jumped to fame as a participant in Operation Triumph program? So, miri, a good singer, who apart from recommending him... but to the band of his music, I want to recommend his interview that made this dissabte in the FAQS. And you can see with what joy and with what naturality he explains how the sun, from Sanlucar, learned catalities thanks to TV3. I recommend it because this is the show of the great success of TV3. I recommend it because this, Mrs. Sierra, shows that it is a cobbled country, and that our language, Mrs. Sierra, despite you, is a cobbled language. It shows that we esteem our language and demonstrate that we facilitate and share that esteem for our language. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.170.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the attention to the great people]] [[300-00309/12]] The next item is the Question to the Government on the attention to the great people, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.171.0	Thank you, Vice President. Gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Councillor, Honourable Councillor El Homrani. I would like, in this question, to make a brief respite of the two main themes that I believe have also marked this legislature in Catalonia, which have been I believe that dependence and residential assistance, residences in our country. Even so, we consider, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, that this has been a lost legislature, which joins the two years lost in social policies in Catalonia. And you can only see the data to prove that Catalonia continues to be a country on a permanent waiting list. For what he does to the great people, but for what he does also to other collections. Without a clear policy for what makes the present and much less the future of policies towards the great people, it is impossible to apply long-term policies because the legislatures last a little longer than two years and the policy makers change each time. Your government has not drawn a clear political line. What we do see is a great disorientation for what it does to management and priorities. Yesterday, in the vote that we had on the conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Millennium of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent, the two parliamentary groups that give recollection to the Government voted different times. Yesterday we also had the opportunity to see and talk about a large group of large people who are not in a situation of dependence and who are not in a residence, who see their old age in full, who have other problems such as transport, training, consumption. We are talking about retired and retired professionals who bring their experience to the society as a whole, who contribute, from the point of view of GDP, therefore, a very important wealth also to Catalonia, which they consume, which they travel. We often forget about concrete policies for these people, and I think that yesterday's session also served us to bridge some interesting political lines, and also to get to what the Socialists and Forward Units Group wants, which is a very active, autonomous and caring people. And today I want to focus on those great, most disadvantaged people who suffer from problems related to dependency, to residential resources. Why does the pandemic also force us to focus on these collections and data that they show, more than that, right? And let's go to objective data for what you do at dependency. Data from the Ministry, because, Mr. Counsellor, the web of your advice is not updated the follow-up of the data of dependence from the month of March, and, therefore, we have to take what we have from the Ministry, and also from the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. In which we carry from year 2020, Catalonia has 6,300 less beneficiaries of the Law of Dependence of those who had the month of generation, a relay only exceeded for the Community of Madrid. Catalonia is the autonomous community that devotes less investment per inhabitant to social policies. Including those autonomous communities with foral rule, is to say, Navarre and Basque Country, if we leave them in band, Extremeura invests eight hundred more euros per inhabitant in social policies than Catalonia. For those who defend that public debt is the one that spreads social investment, say that the Valencian Community, Murcia or Castella - the Manxa, with a somewhat higher percentage of public debt than the Catalan, dedicates and invests more in social policies than the Government of Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya. Catalonia has Spain's largest waiting list to access a dependency benefit: 76,253 people. And at the rate of attention of the last three years, Catalonia will try almost six years to neutralize this list of expectations, counselor. Benefits for residential care, home care, non-professional caregivers have been reduced by 50_per_cent compared to the year 2018. What increases are the benefits linked to residence – and then I'll refer to it. There's a lot of data, too, that for a long time, so I won't make it work. I will only quote one that is what you normally always use to justify this situation. There is an underfunding of the Dependency Law by the State. That's right. In these moments the Generality places eight of each of your euros to finance the Law of Dependency. That's right. Infra finance does not affect only Catalonia, it affects all the autonomous communities of Spain. And, therefore, the question we have to ask ourselves is why... if this affects all the autonomous communities, why is Catalonia in the middle of nowhere? Why is our waiting list the highest? Why are we the most people we have with the right recognized but without the performance? If infra-financing is common to all autonomous communities. I have some, some answers, but, in short, there is a reason for it: because some autonomous communities have done their dues and Catalonia has not. For example, the Valencian Community, giving the municipality more economic resources and more human resources, in just one year reduced the waiting list to depend on a 48_per_cent, which is the same as the canarian community. This proposal was brought by my parliamentary group to the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and the Family a year ago. The vote of the groups that give the government recollection was to vote against it. Three days later there was a press release that said that the department was working to reduce the bureaucratic terms that the Law requires, and you have to be still studying it, because we have no answer or change, in this sense. Catalonia has not done the job: not a single plate of rock to reduce this waiting list. People die every day waiting for their performance. A situation that was already very complicated before the Covid, and that now the Covid has made it much worse. Counselor, we need to recover the dependency values that were put to rest with the state of alarm. They've recovered part of it, but not to the whole territory. And if we don't get those ratings back, we'll just increase the waiting list even further. This also shows the work of the municipal social services, which actually have a couple of additions to the program contract, but these additions are not exactly going to reduce the waiting list to dependency. I recognize you, counselor, the law's infra-financing, but I do recognize that your government now has much more money than it had a year ago. Catalonia has entered on behalf of the Government of the State 3,225_million euros. Moreover, the Government of the State has made the deficit target more flexible and allows us to have 420 million more euros, which its Government has already allocated today. I mean, we have 3,645_million euros that we didn't have a year ago. And, counselor, can you explain to me why with 3,645_million extra euros there are residences that have not yet been collected? Can you defend me why there are residences that will be difficult to pay their workers this month? Can you explain to me why there are still outstanding debts with the Third Social Sector? Can you explain to me why you haven't done anything to reduce waiting lists to depend on them? Where are the 1,800 extra professionals who committed themselves to putting the residences in front of the Covid-19 during this late, if they didn't even pay the residences? Professionals who would have been very good, for example, in the case of the residence Les Vinyes de Falset, with an incidence of 95_percent contagious: 131 positive– and we already carry more than seventeen victims–, the first of which was detected on September 12, and which until recently the Generality did not intervene in this residence. A contagion that affected almost all residents and all workers in the center. And it's that they repeat some of the same problems as in March. Lately, it is difficult to find a personal replacement for the one that has been infected and there is no direct and continuous communication with the family members, which is one of the main problems that the family members have also found in this residence. Today ACRA itself claims that antigen tests are already arriving at the residences. That, besides, they're coming in now, not in 15 days, because the situation is worrying right now. In fact, we have after many things of the first wave of the pandemic, but it seems that they are not enough. By March 2020, 19,866 large people were waiting to enter a public residence in Catalonia. The impact of the Covid and the impossibility of making us tickets have increased the list, which in July was already in 20,592 people. The situation is hopeless. This Parliament passed a decree in September when you increased the modules, under our point of view, insufficiently, at the compound of residents of Catalonia. Well, they didn't charge. They give them the months of July, August, September and now also October. Do not comply with your own commitments, Counselor. They committed themselves to paying a hundred_percent of the places that became empty from the pandemic's home. People who died and left free seats and couldn't be covered by entry restrictions. They have not paid for the empty beds of services linked to residences or the concerted and collaborative places that affect 80_percent of the country's residences, sir. The risk we have is that you make announcements and then you find that you are in full legal uncertainty to be able to enforce them. Then I'll comment more on the issues you have to deal with with finance, but of these €420 million that have been distributed today that come from this flexibility, you have allocated to social policy €20 million. Your month of April put in 1,000_million euros for families with financing problems and ran out in forty-four hours. Of the €420_million, €20_million for social policies. It must be seriously reconsidered, Counselor, which is the social policy that you are applying; and it must be reconsidered, among other things, because the people we have on the street are the ones who are patenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.172.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.173.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, MP Moreno, we are dealing with various aspects. You have begun your intervention by talking about the conclusions of yesterday's study committee of great people, from the perspective – and I welcome it. That Parliament shares it – of active aging, of this perspective that we cannot speak only of the great people from the perspective of dependence, but of active aging; I think that there are very powerful projects in this sense. We are also now aware that there is a parenthesis, because I think you will understand and share that community action..., because in the end the active aging starts from two elements: home care and community action. And that community action, right now, by the very logic of the pandemic, is much reduced. But from projects like the Academy of Seniors to elements of converting large people's couples into civic centers where there are intergenerational elements that are now very close to the pandemic, but which have a logic, they have responded in this sense. I'm saying that because we're still aware of it. 2050 will double the number of people who are more than sixty-five years old in this country. That's it. That's it. With everything that means like a repte. It's not a repte de Catalunya, it's a repte from all over Europe. Basically, it's a reptile from all over Europe. Share it..., and here's where the department's line of action is, and there's it: all that can be to avoid institutionalization is good work, and in that there's a very broad agreement among all administrations. I understand that the exercise of control over the government in Parliament is a hard criticism exercise, I mean, it's already, it's all right, but I also tell you that when I talk to your mayors and mayors of your political group we share the look and have linked projects. Last week we were at the Garraf County Council with a project that we are working together with artificial intelligence in the area of the home of large people that allows us to detect if they increase their need for dependence, etc. Here there is a complex element, which is like between this project, which is a project that has been called for by the European Social Fund EGTC, such as the interrelationship with dependency processes – which, agile, are not. And I think you share it, and you know that the mark is what it is – and, agile, they're not. Around the waiting lists, we have been offering for a long time, and I think that we can share this, that the valorization teams are the same for people who are great than for people with disabilities, but until there is a change in state regulations, we can't do that, and that would allow us to agile a barbarity. And I, after all... and I'm saying it because I think it's... I'm always trying to be very honest. I, after all, when I explained the Residence Contingency Plan in the Covid area, I said: the reserve of seats will make us not be able to act all that we want to act in the area of the waiting lists, because you are saving places that you pay but that are empty, but it is necessary for its sectorization. It's very good that you accept that there is under-financing, it's very good that you set the ceiling of under-financing. Let me..., and I don't want to get into a controversy, but let me..., it's that there's also another element. Apart from infra-financing, from the breach of the law's expertise on the part of all governments, there is another element that also ends up harming us, which is that we never get the reversal, no longer say by gross domestic product – that I already know whenever everyone wants to do what gross domestic product they want to do – only by population, but by population. Usually, we're between 10 and 12_per_cent. Why? Because there are criteria for looking at social needs from the point of view of the state, and then we don't have the priority because there are other territories that have the highest priority. From a point of view of state gaze from all over the universe. You then use the data not with a state look, but with a Catalan look; I accept it, huh? But this ends up happening, and they know it perfectly well because they have listened to the entities in the third sector talking about how the IRPF is shared, they have listened... And we need to find a solution – we need to find a solution. I am aware that one of the taps in the area of waiting lists in dependence are the PIAs. When you explained to the Valencian Community, to the Valencian country, it is because the PIAs are part of the municipal social services. I want to remind you, and I think it's fair to do it, because if we don't, we wouldn't do it, that the Low Counselor – here I have nothing else to see, I was the one who played the last part of the programmed contract, but it was the Low Counselor – placed 90_million euros in the program contract for professional growth, introducing figures that took time to be demanded by the basic social services, such as the manager or the administrative manager, and expanding the rates. I'm just saying that. After the problems are... [[The counselor accidentally drops the drop of water he has on the Faristol.]] Excuse me, huh? This is moving your hand... excuse me. After the problems are... there's this element, it's the PIA, and it's totally conscious. Then I found an item, the charge of the contingency plan. I put it there, huh? Because I don't have a problem locating it. In the ordinary payment, because here we are talking about an extraordinary payment, which I, for now... I looked at in the summer, if I'm wrong... that's why I'm saying it, huh? That I looked at in the summer, if I'm wrong I'm correcting, but in the summer we were the only territory that had done this. I don't know if there was more than that. In summer we were the only one. In what is the ordinary, we are in a 95_percent payment, and where we have the blister is with the extraordinary, because we also have to say, it is an absolutely new procedure. We've sent the instructions... Also the comments that my Secretary of Social Affairs will call on them, to all the Members who carry this subject, to comment on the changes that we have made in the decree of this Tuesday, also to solve one of the issues that we have a problem, because it is a contingency plan for the residential centers and being considered that the PEPs, on the part of intervention and in an appropriate way, is an element that is not of the residential center, that is of the person, we have to make some modifications in order to be able to secure PEPs and collaborators, because, as you know, they are right of the person, they are not resources that you concert with the residential center. And he'll call them soon to explain these modifications and what they mean, and that's what they're all about. Today we have a meeting with the sector itself, and it's already located. Right now, with the instructions they got last week, because it's a new way of billing, in November they'll be able to process payments. God, and that's it, and I think... and I say it very honestly, huh? , I think that everyone who in some way..., I think that all groups here, in some way – it's in local circles, it's in Catalonia, it's in the state sphere; or some in Catalonia don't have it, but in other territories of the State they do have it – they have management responsibility. They know that the management is not desired, but there is a whole series of procedures that are complex to place. But from that, situate it, and also find that today we have paid 10.3_million and that we are on an already paid bill of 300_million, 95_percent of the ordinary. And where we have the tap is to the extraordinary, and the modifications that have been made..., that I already tell them that they will summon them to be able to explain them in a calm way. And then, yes, at least to solve some of the doubts that you expressed. The increase in the floor is good news, it's clear. It's been a long time since we complained, and it's good news. And yes, it brings 400 and millions to the generality, and of these 400 do not go only 20_millions in the field of social protection. There have been 70 and a few splits, which were already destined for the government's commitment in three very concrete areas, which were social protection..., and these 20 go directly to tariffs. Now with this exercise we can already make the modification of ordinary tariffs, not the extraordinary, to industrial policy, to housing and to cultural policy, which was a compromise that we have already made. And they've split about 70 and they're out. I don't remember memory, and I don't mean a sifra. God, the others aren't even distributed yet. I'm telling you because I don't... the phrase that only...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.174.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.175.0	I'm sure it won't be like that. I'm sure it won't be like this, but it hasn't been done because this, like any government, we need to discuss...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.176.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.177.0	...the government internally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.178.0	Thank you. To make the reply, the deputy has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.179.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, today you have allocated EUR 26_million in housing, EUR 20_million in social protection, EUR 13 for industry and economic promotion and EUR 13 in culture. And it's true what you say, and the rest of us are already doing it. He said it more neatly, but the rest didn't split. The only thing I hope is that the band of these... I'm the one who came to explain it is that, if, before the financing problems of dependence and residences, that, I insist, they don't just come after the Covid..., or so, we've had financing problems in the social sector, I remember that we also had debts with the Third Sector. There's always been a problem with the funding gap. But what I'm telling you is that this year will have 3,645_million euros, the Government of Catalonia, of state funds, the 5,000 that will win the year that sees, also on the topic of deficit and extraordinary contribution, and 600_million euros more than the State will distribute among the autonomous communities, as agreed in the later Interterritorial Council of Social Services, for topics of dependence. The only thing I'm saying is that if you really want to make a bet because Catalonia stopped being the autonomous community that least investment in social policies makes all of Spain, at these times you have a golden opportunity. And I would have to ask you, but surely I would also have to ask Mr Aragonès, because many times the problem we have is that for a band there is the will or there may be the will of the department, but there is not always the will of Economy to be able to do it. You've been talking about aging. Yesterday we talked about a good time. We want people to be able to live home as long as possible until their state of health comes back to being transferred to a residential resort, or else they wander around voluntarily. And that's why the SAD needs to be strengthened, the home service, with more hours, with more servants, with more relation to the Third Sector, with more relation to social entities, with more relation to detection teams to avoid cases of violence to large people or cases of non-volunteer loneliness. If all this is clear, effectively, there is a consensus of all political forces, and we should have taken advantage of it or we could have taken advantage of it already to mark this model. And I think that here, from the point of view of the reversal, it could make a much greater effort than is being done at these times, right? Indeed, you have acknowledged that they have these problems with the extraordinary contribution to residential centers. That's what I was talking about before. This morning they had a meeting with the department and said to them: "Look, for the first fifteen days we would try to pay for the agreed seats and then, in November, later, we would pay for the benefits linked to residence and working places. But these debts come from the month of July, and when we are in a situation of social urgency, that is, when a proposal is made by decree – as this, which is an extraordinary financing – it is very clear how it will be done. Because the expectations that you give to the sector are different from what you will find later. If I'm not critical of it, the decree, if we've also abstained from giving the possibility that it can be done. But it's that at this time they don't cover, and we have a sector that is brutally patenting the Covid, as I have put the example of Falset's residence – that there's a lot less incidence than there was a few months ago, but this one, as an example – that still some of the things that were put down in his day are missing, and that if there isn't this funding, it can't complete the protocol that you approved in July. At these times there are residences that are made up of residents who come from other residences in double rooms, because, if not, they cannot reach the end of the month. And that goes against the same protocol, and we are putting at risk the salvation of a lot of people who are in residence just because there is no economic support behind on the part of the Government of Catalonia. I'll tell you more, I could talk, for example, about Mont-roig du Camp, right? , a day centre with an agreed year 2010 for the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the assembly. They put out the day center, two years claiming that it is concerting the places of this day center. For the last five years, they have not done so, and now only have to go through the courts. There's no way. And, I insist, at these moments we have the resources to be able to do it. And I demand you pay. That you pay with the resources you have at these times now, and that you also pay attention to the recommendations of the Social Services Interterritorial Council, which approved a few weeks ago. You got a press release complaining about funding, but there were a lot more. In this area, we are talking about making teleassistance a subject right for all people who are not in a residential appeal, increasing home help more hours, more economic benefits, speeding up administrative procedures, reviewing the co-sponsorship model and, yes, increasing funding for the year you see. Increase funding and recover the minimum level awarded. I would like to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, to set up a political line in these few months of our term of office. Surely, the one we haven't had all this time, because the legislature has been short and tortuous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.180.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.181.0	It's over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.182.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.183.0	And, frankly, I believe that the Government of the Generality could have done something else to bring the future of the great people of this country to light, and that we have not taken advantage of this legislature to do so either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.184.0	To make the reply, the counselor has the word again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.185.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Moreno, in the first place, I want to say it, and I want to thank you all. Lately, when there's a debate about this environment, the tones can sometimes be unpleasant, they can be... And I want to thank you all, huh? I mean, I say it in a very honest way, you see, because I think it's the best way. Miri, I'll give you a few cups so you can see what represents the ampoule collar, which I've placed, I've located where we are, etc. But because you see what it represents over the total, because I think it also helps to hear it. That is to say, we are talking about that we have already executed 290_million euros, 30 monthly payrolls with time, etc. on an ordinary payroll. The coatings represent 10.6 on these 300. I'm also saying... and it's on an exceptional subject. You have not corrected me, with which I understand that we continue to feel the only territory that has made an investment in a contingency plan with a specific tariff to be able to reinforce it. I think it's a good example, it's a good example, in this sense. And if I don't stand for it, I won't stand for it. I've found it normal, haven't I? I found it normal. I think I should put it that way. Our contingency plan the same ministry and the vice-presidency told us it was an example of how to situate it, and I think it's fine, in this sense. And just as I positively appreciated some aspects of the last social council, which I was also critical, because it's nearby, because I think I'm close to defending the interests of the citizens of this country. And, of course, they still don't say how the 600 will be distributed, and it's back to 2012 – I think we're all aware that the details since 2012 were a drama, and I've talked to you and you share it – but we're more bound. Clearly, you say, if I go back to 2012, with a situation that has nothing to do with 2012 because of the increase in the population of large people, because of an increase in the need for dependency – because, if you remember, 2012 the bulk of the residents was not grade three and grade two, as it is now, with very concrete need for care... I go back to 2012, but I am increasing your responsibilities – that this was also good to say here, because, then, where our competence is... No! It has to be in a legal_mark that we can't. I'm increasing your responsibilities. It makes me feel bad, 'cause you say, we're not going to solve anything. And that's why I'm saying it – and that's why I'm saying it. I think I'm close to doing it – and I think I'm close to doing it. Just as I explained, and you've ruled out, there's under-financing, but I've also placed the other element of under-financing, which is that we always go out with 12_per_cent. Do we have 12 percent of the population? No, no, Do we produce 12_percent of GDP? No, no, So that's what we have to put in place, too. You tell me all the extraordinary resources. It's clear, and they will. Now, the extraordinary resources, these 3,000 and escai... is that many have been fighting the pandemic directly. It's just that, if I may say so, I'll say one: that in the last distribution the share of Afers Socials does not exist, in the distribution. There's salvation, there's education... I'm also saying this because they already know that I don't know Catholic – to begin with, I don't know much about religion – but the miracle of the multiplication of bread and fish, I think, is always complex. You say, because, of course, at the end of the day you said: "No, no, you have to do the whole part of Health, you have to do the whole part of Education... I felt them as a parliamentary group say: "The 300 and they are going to Education must go to Education to do this. The 2,000 going to Salut... then here's something that hasn't just squared. I say that, in this sense, I feel honest and say: it is good news, but it is absolutely necessary news, because the needy will increase greatly, will increase barbarity. I do, if I look at it... And I'm sure it will change, that it will change, because, with the 300 left to distribute... The government has also placed it: one of the priorities is the social sphere. There are various priorities. The sphere of economic support, the social sphere... and there will be. But I, right now, if I come out on the net, I've lost a lot of pressure. If I'm going to go out on the net right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.186.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.187.0	In addition to these 20, I received 86 active employment policies and 45 of the first contingency plan in the social field in the situation. That's the reality, huh? Unfortunately. And from here we work together. And I think there are issues that you know about, and I know we're a lot more in tune than...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.188.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.189.0	Thank you very much, President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.190.0	Thank you. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, som-hi, deputies, deputies. We shall proceed to the pending votes of the remaining agenda items of today's day, and shall vote, first of all, on the fifteenth item. Before that, inform them that today there are a number of Members and Members who have delegated their vote, twenty Members and Members who have joined the telematic vote and twenty-three who will vote face-to-face. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the poor child (continuation)]] [[302-00243/12]] We are voting, as I said in the first place, on the 15th item of the order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government about the poor child. We begin by voting, according to separate voting petitions, points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. We now vote on points 4, 5, 6 and 8 - 4, 5, 6 and 8. The vote begins. These points have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. And now we're voting points 7, 9, 9 bis, 10, 11 and 12. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. There are no more places to vote for this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the difficult situation of insecurity in the streets (continuation)]] [[302-00248/12]] So let's go to the next, which corresponds to item 16 of the order of the day, that is to say, the motion following the question to the government about the situation of difficult insecurity that is suffered in the streets. We now proceed to the vote, in the first place, on point 1, letter c–1, letter c. The vote begins. This letter was rejected by 48 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting point 1, letters and, f and. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 77 against – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – 17 abstentions. And now we're voting point 1, letters j and l. The vote begins. They were rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 69 against, 25 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting point five now, letters and j. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting on point five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the points and letters that haven't voted on this motion. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the occupation of habitats (continuation)]] [[302-00242/12]] We are now voting for the next member, who is the next member of the House following the Government's inquiry into the occupation of housing. And we vote, in the first place, point number 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 33 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face with more than 20 telematics–, 36 abstentions. We now vote on the introductory part of the third point. The vote begins. It was approved by 86 votes in favour – corresponding to 66 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics –, 4 against, 44 abstentions. And we're voting now on point three, letters a, c and d. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. And we're voting point three now, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes in favour – corresponding to 102 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics –, 4 against, 8 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. And we're voting on the fifth point now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 17 votes in favour, against and 117 abstentions – corresponding to 97 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. We're voting for the sixth point now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. We've voted all the points of this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the presuppositional management of the Hard Rock project (continuation)]] [[302-00245/12]] So, let's go to the next one, which corresponds to the dividing point of the order of the day, and it's the motion following the inquiry to the government about the presuppositional management of the Hard Rock project. Let's vote, first of all, points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 101 against– corresponding to 81 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting points three and five now. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against– corresponding to 98 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – against 57 abstentions. We're voting points 6 and 7. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point eight now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 65 against, 57 abstentions. We've voted all the points of this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the import of the Ebre Delta to the primary sector (continuation)]] [[302-00246/12]] So let's move on to the next, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the import of the Ebro Delta to the primary sector. In this case, there is no separate motion for a vote. Therefore, we vote on the joint motion with the three embedded transactional items. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of tourism (continuation)]] [[302-00244/12]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of tourism. In response to the separate motion for a vote, we shall vote, in the first place, point 1, letter b. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to four, with eight abstentions. And we're voting now on point two, letters and j. The vote begins. They were approved by 65 votes in favour, 4 against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. We're voting point two now, and that's it. The vote begins. It has been approved by 73 votes in favour – corresponding to 53 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – 61 against, no abstention. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its intended lack of transparency (continuation)]] [[302-00247/12]] And we are voting now on the twenty-first item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about its intended lack of transparency. Let's vote, first of all, points 1, 5 and 7. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 6. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – 12 abstentions. And we're voting point three now. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – 4 abstentions. So let's go back to voting this point. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, this point will have to be voted on at the end of a third time. And we're voting now for a quarter of this young man. The vote begins. There was also a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. So let's go back to voting on this point. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. There are no more points to vote, so let's leave a deadline to be able to make the third vote of these points, of the third and quarter of the motion following the question to the Government about its intended lack of transparency. Let's give it two minutes so we can do the telematic vote and we'll go back to doing the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.191.0	All right. We vote, therefore, for the third time, and in such a way as to disembark, these two pending points of the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government about their intentional lack of transparency. Specifically, the third and fourth points. Let's start with the third point. Vote again. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, do not prosper this point. Let's move on to the next one, which is four. The vote begins. There was again, too, the same tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, do not prosper, neither, this point. Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.192.0	It was only for a few acclaims, in case the president could tell us if he is counting the deputy's vote until a few days ago Lluís Guinó, who has recently been disqualified by judgment of the TSJ.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-22-6402.193.0	Obviously, yes. The session's up. Thank you.
