ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's start..., let's resume – more well-known – the sessio. And we did the control session, therefore, with questions with oral answer to the government. Before substantiating them, however, let me say that, as the parliamentary groups know, it was proposed, at the request of the Government, to change a question. Therefore, in the first place is what was foreseen in the 14th place on the order of the day. I know that they are not informed and that there is a joint view of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. [[Ask the Government about the Strategic Social Services 2020-2024]] [[310-00448/12]] Therefore, we will start with question number 14, which is about the Strategic Social Services Platform 2020-2024, which is formulated by Mrs Marta Vilalta, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor Homrani. This is probably my last intervention in the plenary of this Parliament, and I am honoured to be able to do so by asking and talking about the Pla stratègique de servicii sociales de Catalunya for the year 2020-2024. A plan that is not just a retreat of good intentions posed black on white, but it is a paradigm shift for what it does to the social services of our country. A clear and firm bet to strengthen this social pillar of the welfare state, as low as it has been so far, and to be able to match it to health systems and the education system. With a clear objective: to bring services closer to people and adapt them to the needs of the citizenry, beyond the various stages of life. I am honored, I said, to be able to speak in this last speech to the plenary of this Parliament, doing what we have come to make the Republican people in this Parliament. It's like helping people, transforming reality, strengthening the welfare state. And this plan, counselor, is not an example. Serving godmother Montserrat, who is dependent, and now see how home care services will grow, or social and health services will integrate. Help Josep and his son, who are users of the Child and Adolescent Care Service, so that they can grow up with the same equal opportunities. Or accompany and give tools to Sylvia, which is young and precarious mass, but volunteer at Community level, because it wants to change the world. Also to Miquel, who would never have thought of it, but that the pandemic crisis and the ERTOs – certainly not charged for the inefficiency of the State – has led him to a situation of poor survival. And to the Moha family, which is evil for a decent habitation, like so many other families in our country. And more so, in this current context. A social service plan for everyone. So I take advantage of these last seconds that I have to thank him. Thanks to all those who have made this strategic social service platform possible; to those who have participated in the process of participation and consultation; obviously, to the entities, the professional colleges, the agents of the sector; and also to the parliamentary groups of this chamber, which we have passed for unanimous approval. And also, obviously, to the people of the department, to the government team that you lead; thanks, counselor; thanks to the secretary Marta Cassany and Cesc Iglesias, to the director Meritxell Benedí and to Judit Calveras. And of course, who started with the impulse of this plan, to Constellera Bassa, that today you must be smiling pleased to see how we help people, how we lay the foundations to strengthen the social service system. And he will smile despite the situation of absurd injustice and repression that he sees and suffers, and that causes people like her to be in prison.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.3.0	Congresswoman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.4.0	But we're here to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.5.0	To answer the question, the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord Chakir El Homrani, come forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. Congresswoman, I'll begin by thanking everyone's work. The Strategic Social Services Platform is not a strategic part of the Government of the Generality; it is a strategic part of everyone. And I think it's the first thing we need to be worth, the ability to remember it all. And also a recognizance of all parliamentary groups in this chamber, because this work of agreement between everyone and everyone ended with their views in Parliament, in the committee, with their approval for unanimity. There has been a very intense work done, agreeing with local authorities, agreeing with the third sector, agreeing with social and economic agents, agreeing with professional colleges, agreeing with people and their families, which we have also incorporated into the global gaze. What are we gonna do? A paradigm shift. Overcoming the current paradigm and moving towards a proactive and preventative paradigm, which places a referent in the field of social services for all citizens of this country. An entry, breaking the dichotomy between basic social services and specialized social services; a follow-up, and also, incorporating an idea, which I think is very important that we say it in high view: all of you – also those who are in this room – we have passed, are passing or will pass through the Catalan system of social services. And that's very important that we incorporate it, that we incorporate it into the universal gaze, that's the look we have to take at the pillar of the welfare state. A look that carries a long look. Because, at this moment, we have to give an answer to a very complex situation, from a pale look, at the same time, it was absolutely necessary and it is absolutely necessary to have this long look, which is the one that gives the strategic plan. With many commitments; and they will complement, because it did many years that this country needed a strategic plan and we have it; we have it for unanimity, with very different sights, but with the ability to agree. And that, at this point, is also a message that I think the citizenship appreciates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the state of nature in Catalonia]] [[310-00442/12]] The next question is about the state of nature in Catalonia and the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.8.0	Counselor, last week the State of Nature and Biodiversity report was presented to Catalonia 2020; a reference report for all those interested in the natural environment. The preparation of this report, based on scientific data, has been carried out with a composite team of experts, with a solid scientific trajectory and also with the collaboration of more than forty research entities and voluntary persons, among others. A global indicator for the United Nations has been used to monitor the planet's biodiversity, the name "Living Planet Index". Therefore, we are ahead of a serious and ambitious report, which can be taken as a reference. In addition, its writing has been completed in an exceptional context, of health emergency, but also of climate emergency; a climate emergency very linked to this loss of biodiversity and natural environment. From Juntes per Catalunya, we agree that it is more necessary than ever to continue to drive strong and decisive policies in this matter. If we mislead the report, we find that 173 species considered at risk of extinction to the planet live in our territories. At the same time, there are 245 and 99 dwellings of Community interest. Long-term follow-up data show that 25_per_cent has been lost from midjana; one_of_each_four individuals from vertebrate and invertebrate populations, later divided years. And while this loss of biodiversity, we find that it is not the same in one environment as in another: it falls to more than 50_per_cent for animal species living in rivers, lakes and ponds, 34_per_cent of agricultural and meadow environments, and 12_per_cent of forests and slaughterhouses. It's just some blunt data, before which we can't be indifferent and that they say we have to fight back and compensate for the loss of habitat. The results are that conservation policies are questioned, but also sectoral policies that have the greatest influence on the factors previously exposed. We cannot be left with open arms before the loss of animals, and ultimately before the loss of biodiversity in the Catalan territory. The rich biodiversity of our country is very big and it is a task for everyone to guarantee its conservation. I've been very honored to be a congresswoman. And more than the last question, my last intervention is to talk about nature. Councillor, what policies to protect biodiversity and the natural environment have applied or are expected to apply to protect the biodiversity and the natural environment of our country and, at the same time, to curb and reverse the negative results of the report on the State of Nature and Biodiversity of Catalonia 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.10.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Madam Member, the truth is that it is a real honor for a pallar woman, also linked to municipal politics, to ask me this last oral question, this last occasion that I have to address myself to the plenary in this legislature, and, precisely, speaking of the state of nature. Because you know – and we have commented on many occasions – that it seemed, therefore, very difficult also to be able to agree policies that combine well the rural world, the forest world, the world of the regions of the Pyrenees, with this vision, by force, to establish common criteria in legislative matters and with a programme of government action that are sometimes made from the urban world. And this rural-urban dialogue, therefore, has not been easy to pull forward in this legislature, but we have succeeded. We have achieved this on the basis of, obviously, therefore, the action of Parliament and also of government action. And I want to pay for a moment at the appearance made by the legitimate councillor of Territories and Sustainability, friend Josep Rull, on March 1, 2017, when he established what are the bases of the strategy of conservation of the natural environment and preservation of diversity, which we have been developing at the length of this legislature. In that appearance, Counsellor Rull marked this strategy. And in this legislature, indeed, we have been able to develop it. We have developed it, first, with the own strategy of the natural environment and biodiversity. A strategy, therefore, that has a set of lines of action, of objectives that we are completing. Also with what has been the creation of the Agency of Nature – and again I refer, and you know it perfectly well, to the difficulty that it has been able to have this power to do better environmental policies–, and so also, to which will be the gasoline to be fed this agency, which is the use of CO2 tax, in its vicinity of the natural environment, which will effectively serve to make these better environmental policies. But above all, we have to do all this from the scientific basis of this report to which you refer. Xifres, which are not exclusive to Catalonia, are worrying figures respect the preservation of biodiversity, which affect the whole world, especially Europe, especially the most industrialized world, but we also have to take much into account to be able to develop these best policies. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the right to abhorrence]] [[310-00449/12]] The next question is about the right to avortation and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.12.0	Good morning, Counselor. Let's just say that in Catalonia, abortion is a guaranteed right. As the most responsible for Salut a Catalunya, can you say that avotation is guaranteed for all women free, free and in territorial equality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.13.0	To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.14.0	Thank you, President. MP, so, well, as you said, in Catalonia we can say that free access to the right to salvation, like free access..., that this includes the rights of sexual and reproductive salvation and, obviously, including the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, is guaranteed. Another thing is to start with a deployment to ensure also, in the access band, that it is the first and most relevant and what we need to do, more than that, for the law that we have endowed ourselves with, also, as Members and Members, with compromise, the deployment of this access.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.15.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.16.0	He will advise, he knows perfectly well that the right and access to territorial adoration is not guaranteed. And that's a problem. I would argue that, as the most responsible for salvation, first of all accepted, without subterfuges or euphemisms, this violation of a women's rights. Not guaranteeing the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy is not guaranteeing human rights. So simple. The pandemic has put us on the table in need of asking us what is unavoidable and what is not. And it has to be said that in Catalonia, the voluntary interruption of the embarrassment, opening all the telematics, was guaranteed, but the pandemic has also accentuated the territorial inequality for which it makes access to the awning. Today, in Lleida and the Pyrenees, women cannot abort on equal terms with the women of Barcelona. A woman from the Seu d'Urgell, with two weeks of pregnancy, who wants a surgical abortion, cannot perform it. And this also goes to Central Catalonia's counties. At the Sant Joan de Déu Hospital of the Althaia Foundation, a referral hospital for 200,000 people, the women of Bages, Moianès and Solsonès do not have the same conditions as a woman from another part of the country. And at the end and the end, we're at the end of the street, every time they outsource public services we lose right. And this is one of the bad consequences of our public-private concert health system, since we have a good part of the concerts with England. We lay the money and they lay the conditions. And, counsel, we ask you again: what will you do to resolve this issue? Because, if a woman from the Seu d'Urgell cannot abort on equal terms, the right to abortion is not guaranteed. If a woman from Manresa cannot abort on equal terms, the right to abortion is not guaranteed. And, as I've said many times, if a woman migrated without a health card can't access her right to abort freely and for free, the abortion is not guaranteed. Not to recognize it is to have a classist, centralist and racist view of public health.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.17.0	To answer again, the greeting counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.18.0	Thank you, President. Well, you say one thing in the first intervention and you say another in the second. The right and free access to Catalonia are guaranteed. You're talking to me about equal conditions. And do you know what we've done? Precisely why do we want a system not only universal, but also with the highest territorial, social and gender equity, what have we done? So you can put access to the pharmacological IVE to all of Pirine and Aran. This is one of the things we've done in this legislature. Second, find solution for Lleida. Because it is certain that people who would have to enter the voluntary interruption of surgical pregnancy would have to move either to Girona, or to Tarragona, or to Barcelona. Find this access to Lleida, in the territory, improving this territorial equity. But obviously, access is there. And do you know what we've also done in a time of pandemic, when I explicitly mark it that the first visit has to be face-to-face, from the petition of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy? So access to telematics visits, do the normal shift. And we did it the month of April, in a context of total confinement. Precisely – precisely – because at the end of the street is guaranteeing women their sexual and reproductive rights, and this includes the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. That's what we did to the Pyrenees. That's what we did to Lleida. That's what we did on this access to the first visit. And we won't stop improving this deployment with access. And I repeat it again, because this is important: any woman who migrates – with papers, without papers, whatever it is – has to have access to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in this country. And, if there's any case that it's not like that, as we get some associations at some point, through which they've found themselves, we're solving it because it's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the incompliments of Parliament's health agreements]] [[310-00443/12]] The next question is about the incompliments of Parliament's agreements in the matter of salvation. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.20.0	President, good morning. Counselor, you said in the past we had planned the appearance of the SEM manager to the Salvation Commission. Their incomparability left a lot of doubts in the area; for example, why has not the Parliament agreed to make the SEM essential. The other is that the manager of the SEM, if it is the one who signed the contract, has not yet offered him an alternative to Ferroser's contract for the current tracking system; an alternative that works and that basically remains the least burdensome possible for the citizenry; an alternative, he will advise, that you, the vice president and the presidential adviser allow them to honour their public commitments to terminate this contract and to give no compliment to the three agreements entered into for this Parliament. Because I suppose, counsel, that's what you want: to reverse the contract and complete Parliament's agreements. And that's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.21.0	To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.22.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. So, obviously, this Parliament agrees, and we always have the responsibility to look at... and, therefore, to look at how we can do it. It seems to me that your question has a deep disconnection of how the Public Administration works or wanting to ignore – which is still worse – where we have been absolutely these pandemic months and all the task we have done, dealing with this issue and all the issues they have to deal with with the pandemic, with a constant improvement of the tracking circuits, with four public safety programs, precisely to strengthen this. Comparisons to this Parliament. You know perfectly well, Congresswoman. We've checked in. I return to compare to explain and continue to explain the management of the Covid. Public comparisons. And appearances with the members of the Health Committee, who are biannually between me, all my Health Team, and who, therefore, have been able to ask, solve doubts and do everything there. Therefore, I never speak of incomparencies on the part of the Department of Health and this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.23.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.24.0	No, Counselor, it's not disconnection, it's respect to Parliament: 32,639,000_euros is what they have collected Ferrovial and Ferroser from the month of April. This corresponds to the extension, modification, and scams of the initial contract. And this is only 15_million more than Ferroser's 17.7_million euros, which, knowing that it is a company dedicated to cleanness, therefore, the first, the first objective, which is that of the expert, does not complie. All of this, since the first contract, it's 50 million who went to Railroad and affiliates. And what I'm asking is what came out of all this. A 061 col·lapsate, which continues to be unfree despite Parliament's agreement – that I think even so the Budo Councillor has apologized –; a tracking system that the same trackers say doesn't work, that they arrive late because the computer system doesn't work and that they trick people when they've been confined for a few months. And, as I said, we're going to have a few failures, and I'd like to know what happened to the audience that was approved that they would present on the expenditure incurred in salvation under the state of alarm, among other things. And also the audience that was paid for by the private sector. Miri, I want to end with the words of the director of the Antifrau Office: "Most of the government's girl contracts during the pandemic have fallen into large corporations. We have to look at each other, because something's going on here. And I want to take advantage of the twelve seconds I have left, since it will be my last intervention in this legislature, to wish them all and all a good year of change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.26.0	Thank you, President. What's going on here, Congresswoman, is that we're running a pandemic, a global pandemic, where we've had to build all these circuits that didn't exist before and that obviously we've made them zero. And that doesn't include just a contract; that includes the four public health programs for this tracking circuit, that includes almost three thousand people dedicated to follow up and control this epidemic; that includes a circuit involving different actors with different profiles of public health, epidemiological vigilance, primary attention and also through the call center. I thought that, if you wanted to talk about failings and to respect this Parliament, you would also talk about failings that this Parliament has decided to respect the financing of health care, the financing of the public health system in Catalonia, or the financing of the Law of Dependence – of the Law of Dependence – that we would have started with very different conditions to take up this pandemic. Where is that 50_per_cent that has to finance the State of the Law of Dependency? We're at a 17_per_cent, Congresswoman, we're at a 17_per_cent. And I would like these efforts to be devoted, obviously, to the citizens of Catalonia, to the opinions and to the avies, to the people who have right to salvation in our country, so to give this support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the policies of citizen security tearing up the fire of the Badalona ship]] [[310-00446/12]] The next question is about citizen security policies tearing fire from the Badalona ship. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.28.0	Thank you, President. The question relates to the tragedy suffered by a group of immigrants without going to the Badalonian barri de Gorg. Who are the consequences that the government of the Generality does not extrude from this tragedy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.29.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.30.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, tell him that, after the unfortunate fires that occurred last week, the first one that the Generalitat did, in concrete terms the first one that did the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, was immediately to contact all the ABPs of Catalonia to try to make a hundred more or less exact than the naus that might have been in a situation similar to the whole territory of Catalonia. To tell him that there are no, for example, at Camp de Tarragona, that there are no in the Lands of the Jews, that there are no in Ponent and that there are no in Central Catalonia, but that in the rest of the territory we have found a minimum of thirty-seven naus that could be in similar circumstances to what happened or how the ship of Badalona was. In any case, as for your own security concerns, if you reply now, I will answer it later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.31.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.32.0	Well, counselor, this tragedy was more than predictable, and it got pregnant in the eyes of all administrations for more than a decade. This industrial ship, more than one hundred and fifty senseless, has also been in the last few days a focus of conflicts of coexistence, insecurity and also criminal conduct. Counselor, these occupied precincts are often too many sources of conflict and citizen insecurity. But I don't want to talk only about conflict and delinquency associated with these little ghettos into which these occupied enclosures are converted. For what it does to irregular immigration, public administrations are installed in the fixed photo of the Aquarius: Mr. Torra offering ports, Mr. Pedro Sánchez pointing out the merit of having saved the 630 occupants of that vessel in his last book apocryphal... This terrible tragedy is nothing more than an indicator of the reality of accolade policies, a photocall policy, based on making it see that it is done and not done. This is what is happening with the policy of gathering irregular immigrants. Many words and a lot of disheartening from day to day that they have to suffer and that, sometimes, as is the case, they are up to cost their lives. It is not to say that we are a land of concentration, if those responsible for public administration only serve this grave human problem by postureig. I don't need to look guilty. Because there's a lot of them. Badalona are also guilty of the former municipal government, the confluence of the CUP with Podemos, or in Barcelona, the populist activist Colau de la mà of the PSC. It is the populist politics of the parties that, from the local, autonomous and central governments, in place to deal with these situations chronicle the problems, and that, in this case and in many other similar cases, the only thing they do is to dishearten from social policies, which are only in great declarations, and legitimize precariousness, which is the revolted river in which they like to fish. What do you think you're doing, counselor? There are plenty of big statements. Put a thread in the needle and solve this problem or fold and do not leave.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.34.0	Thank you, President. Mr Matías Alonso, you yourself, with your intervention, answered my question. He has made a statement that it is a matter of politics, he has made intervention or manifestation of photocalls of certain policies, but, in change, he asks the question to the Councillor d'Interior. And the Inner Counselor can only answer with what he refers to security. And the security or intervention of the security forces can only be given when there are criminal conducts. And when there have been criminal conducts on this ship, there have been arrests, for thefts with intimidation, for the sake of stupid substances, which is when we can intervene. But what you can't claim is that the Interior Councillor will answer him about questions that you yourself have told at all times about social issues and policies. I can agree with that, in part. It is clear that there is a great political lack of respect for the issue of social pro-própiement, but I repeat it again, I support the Councillor of the Interior. As counsel for the Interior, we did what we had to do, which is to make a diagnosis of the ships we have in Catalonia in these circumstances, to put them in the knowledge of the local administration, of the same generality, that we have the knowledge of it. But only when there are criminal conducts will the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Miri, for example, there was an intention on the part of the Badalona Assembly to produce a denunciation on this ship. Obviously, it cannot be done, because it is because there is a denunciation there must first be the complaint on the part of the actor, the owner. And we'd also have to lay on the table which is the responsibility of the owners of these naus. Just like we have insurance for the vehicle, for example, when it can cause...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.35.0	Counselor, he's running out of time... [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the balance of government action]] [[310-00440/12]] The next question is about the balance of government action. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Councilwoman Budó, today, that it is the last session of control of this legislature, from our parliamentary group we want to ask them and sometimes to find and share what they have been following these three years; three years that have ended the same way they began, that it is with the clusters of the repression of the State that the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, of the sovereignty of our institutions. This legislature began preventing the investiture of President Puigdemont and ended with the disqualification of President Torra for a banner demanding freedom of political prisoners. And we have seen how the rights and freedoms of political representatives have been violated – from our own parliamentary group there have been eight Members who have not been able to finish this parliamentary term. Or when we saw a plethora of failed investment from Jordi Turull because half full he'd get put in jail because he wasn't invested president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Or how the rights and freedoms of MPs and MPs who could not vote or who would withdraw the self and who could not guarantee the political rights of the citizens who had trusted their representation could be suspended. A legislature that ends as it begins, with a government of the People's Party and the most progressive government of history, of the PSOE and of Podemos, that act in the same way, with the prosecution, that runs it all and that does and continues the repression before political prisoners and before the exiles, as we saw last week, when the third degree was withdrawn and the President of Parliament, President Forcadell, and Constellera Bassa returned to prison. But at the same time, a pandemic, a pandemic that forces us all to manage with responsibility a situation of economic and social crisis without precedents, in which we must therefore act with responsibility, with solvency, with rigour, understand the priority of people and understand that Catalonia needs all the resources that Catalonia generates, that we have, that they go and that they do not become, that they are necessary resources for the hospital, for the residences, for the schools, for the autonomous and for all people, that at these times the resources that Catalonia generates, that are left in Catalonia, are needed. In this sense, she would advise, we would like to know who is the government's grasp of this situation and, more importantly, of these coming months, in which, therefore, rights and freedoms must also be guaranteed from a government in function of the Generality of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.38.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, so I'm starting my answer, so I'm confirming what you're saying to us, right? We have started this legislature with the legitimate president in exile and we finish this legislature with President Torra disqualified, and while facing the Nadal quarter with political prisoners and exiles. This is the reality of this legislature; this reality, this harsh reality, this repression of the Spanish State has accompanied us throughout this legislature. And we have to learn to manage the country and to do politics as well as to endure this day-to-day repression and then, unabated, on the part of the Spanish State. And in this sense, so you're asking the question, right? So what's the government's grasp, what's the balance of this legislature? So, despite the difficulties with which we have found ourselves, and which have been few, I think that the balance of this legislature is positive, because we have actions that have improved the daily lives of the people of our country; we have actions that have allowed us transformations that make Catalonia a captivating country and prepared for us in this 21st century and, at the same time, we have also progressed in everything that is, in terms of social protection, the most vulnerable. At the same time, we have found ourselves, unfortunately, with a management, as you said, of a pandemic that has struck us at the length of all this year 20 and that, unfortunately, continues to be present among us. It is a health crisis of a magnitude that we have never experienced before, but at the same time accompanied by an economic and social crisis resulting from this health crisis of a magnitude that I think we do not yet have much to quantify, but which, of course, will mark the policies of our own years and our own legislature. We will have to manage the post-Covid, we will have to manage this post-health crisis, because, fortunately, this 2021 we will be able to hold the vaccine, the vaccine that will therefore allow this community immunity necessary to be able to eradicate this virus, but we will have the pandemic of the economic and social crisis, which we will have to manage and we will have to..., that is, we will have to make every effort to capture this situation that Covid has left us. But in the meantime, and from the Government of Catalonia – working, as you said – we will have to guarantee at these times, until the elections arrive and it is a new government, we will have to ensure that the day-to-day lives of people, citizens and citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.39.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.40.0	...of this country continues, and in this it is compromised...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.41.0	...will advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.42.0	...this government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.43.0	You've run out of time. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about català in the digital era]] [[310-00441/12]] The next question, about the català in the digital age, and the formula on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis. Forward. [[Pause.]] Oh, come on, then. We were aiming for Mrs. Geis. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The proposition said the 10th you presented a project relevant to the country and that for us, the Catalans, the ones we feel and want to be, is the alpha and omega of our collective identity: the language, the key back on which our way of interpreting and expressing the world and at the same time, and at the same time, the way in which we interpret ourselves, we question ourselves and explain ourselves to ourselves. On the 10th, Aina presented a project of artificial intelligence that aims to avoid the digital extinction of català and its competitive normalization in a complex and global world and, of course, little given to multilingualism, and with a state, Spanish, that invisibilitizes it. An object of great responsibility that has been shaken by an soul that has the unique and unequivocal will to preserve the language. And we thank him for this contribution to the preservation of Catalan culture, we thank him for this bet to make possible the survival of català through artificial intelligence and that from now on all the citizens of Catalonia who want to have a useful tool for interacting in català in the digital world. And, of course, we also appreciate that with this instrument you're making a tribute to who was the anime of linguistic normalization already at the age of eighty, the esteemed Aina Moll. And today, which is my last intervention in this hemisphere, I'm very honored to remember Aina Moll and her Norma, who, in my generation, who lived in remote cities, opened the door to a young woman with a language that was not complex and in normal lives. Now, the Aina will, of course, open the door to digital normalization for our girls. And in this sense I wanted to ask you, counselor, if the Aina project will preserve the rich linguistic ingredient that supposes the differences spoken, the dialectal varieties of the territory and the linguistic registers of the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. Can we follow the evolution of the project? And a wish: so good that one day it will not reach the Aina project if it can incorporate our other official language of the Principality, which is the Aranes. And I take this opportunity today, which is the last day of intervention on my part... to thank all the staff of Parliament, the advisors and their professionalism. It was for me an honor, a great honor and a huge privilege to be a member of this chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.45.0	Thank you, Mrs Macia. Apologies, huh? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.46.0	To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration has the word, the Mr. Puignero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.47.0	Thank you, President. Deputy. Miri, paraphrased Salvador Espriu, should say that the Aina, therefore, "has come to save our words, also in the digital age, and not only the català, also its variants that are spoken throughout the territory of Catalonia and other places of Catalan speaking, as also has come to help the Aranese. And we have to do this because different reports warn us of the situation, say, of the danger in which the català can enter in danger of digital extinction. From a Metanet report, there are clearly European languages in this situation, as also the recent report of the Platform for Language on telling us, for example, that only 35_percent of the citizens who live in Catalan speaking territories usually use it; or in Barcelona itself, in Barcelona city, only 20_percent of the young people use it regularly. And so, listen, I'm very upset, and I'm very interested, and I'm just saying that I get angry when I see in this Parliament unionists, from all sides, from many parties, making absolute demagogic with this subject. The truth is that the mouth of the Spanish Constitution is constantly filled, that we must respect the Spanish Constitution, huh? , when they are the first to take an example and respect it, because I want them to read Article 3.3 of their Spanish Constitution which says that "the richness of the different languages of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be object of special... of special, " respect and protection. Do you think it's normal that today, for example, we can see that I speak Catalan before the Alexander or Siri who can speak at the Congress of Deputies? Do they think this is about respecting the Catalan language in the Spanish State? Do they really believe that? I believe that these rights, our rights, are not respected and we find each other, and we can set as an example how the European Parliament can Spanish representatives use their language normally, so that it cannot be done in the Congress of Deputies? Why can't Mrs. Laura Borràs, Mr. Gabriel Rufián, use the language at the Congress of Deputies, which is a language in this case that should deserve this respect? Look, I've known a generation or a generation of Drac Ball, to see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.48.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] I have to tell him it was interesting, but time has run out. [[Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the projected deficit for 2020]] [[310-00450/12]] The next question is about the deficit forecast for 2020 and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.49.0	Good morning, Vice President. From Catalonia to Comú Pode, we want to know why it has decided that the deficit of 2020 is the same as the deficit of the year 2019, a year that there was no health and economic crisis. We would like to know what is the reason why the Valencian Community will make a deficit of 2_percent of GDP and Catalonia only of 0.7. We would like to know why, at a time when we have managed to bury the assumptions of the PP of Montoro, also with his collaboration, you want to make Montoro to Catalonia and, in short, we would also like to know how you may be making economic policies in Catalonia as if you do not know that the norms of presuppositionary stability and the objectives of disability are suspected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.50.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.51.0	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member, first of all, is wrong; he is wrong, because the deficit of this year 2020 will be greater than that of the year 2019 and will be between 0.7 and 0.8. You were making a return, that music that came back and that came back with a clearly electoral objective, with a clearly electoral objective, which is to insinuate that the Government of Catalonia is not doing everything it can to help the economic and social sectors that are most affected by this crisis and to strengthen public services. Look, the reason why the deficit of the Government of Catalonia will be the one that will be this and will not be greater is because it was not until October 5th that the Government of the State suspended the objectives of fiscal stabilization, despite the fact that since April the European Union had decided to do so. And though we had been asking, asking and asking. And it wasn't until the end of October when he decided that. And you know perfectly well and your party, which, for example, governs institutions as important as the Barcelona Assembly, knows perfectly well that in two months of college it is not possible to recover the level of presuppositional execution that could not be done for a whole year and know perfectly well. You know perfectly well. This year, the Government of Catalonia will have an expenditure of 5,000_million euros higher than last year. It is not just left with a pixel of the deficit object. I look at the total expense. And a very important thing, the pandemic does not end on 31st December neither the economic pandemic nor the health and social pandemic. And there's one thing: There's no point in saying that you can do whatever you want, but don't put the money to finance it with immediate character because help has to come right away, the subsidies have to come right away, and the salaries of public workers have to be paid every end of the month.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.52.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.53.0	Do you know what happens to the vice president? That it's not music. They're not ciphers. They're not dades. They're people. They're culture technicians who can't make it to the end of the month. They're sports monitors that work one_me and another don't work. They're families who can't afford the logger. And you tell me things that there are other governments like, for example, the Valencian government that is doing. Why does the government make a 2_per_cent deficit? You're talking to me about October, but you haven't put in a single euro, for example, for measures to pay for the extraordinary logger. Not one more euro for the guarantee of returns as extraordinary measure. 061 still feels like paying. And there really is no real impact aid for the world of sport and volume culture, which really is a solution for people who are actually patenting. That's the reality. Miri, you're slow and slow. I'm telling you a little bit late. You're late and don't apologize. Miri, you're acting bad. The most obvious proof is that the only real impact measure they've made is with the autonomies and made it late, after the disaster of their work-failing counselor. That's what you did. So, it does prove that if there has been a will they can spend. Look, Mr. Argimon told you the other day, and Dr. Argimon made it very clear: they are not applying any more restrictions, because they do not want to allocate any more resources. And today Mr. Argimon is already saying that we are on the third day. And I ask him: are they not applying any more health restrictions because they want to continue to contain the deficit? If you have to apply new health restrictions, wouldn't you have a set of prepared aids? Are you going to do it again like they did it in the second wave? So I'm telling you the truth: put the machine down...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.54.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.55.0	...to spend on the march.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.56.0	To answer, again the deputy president of the government. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.57.0	Mr. Congressman, you, yes, insist on this mantra. You don't want to say "return"? So let's say "mantra." You insist on this mantra. The generality has no deficit targets for this year. Not tea. The order to all departments is to execute, to execute and to execute. And that the pandemic did not end on 31 December, which will need to continue making efforts – it will need to continue making efforts. And you know it perfectly, and you know it, what happens is that it seems like they want to love it. It took half a year – half a year – to apply what Europe gave. And it's also his responsibility – it's also his responsibility. What's wrong? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Or do you happen to have this outsourced? It turns out that Podemos, the state government, has outsourced...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.58.0	Thank you, Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.59.0	...economic policy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.60.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.61.0	...in Minister Calviño? Is that what this is? So now you're... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.62.0	The next question is the Vice President of the Government... [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the possible electoral advance]] [[317-00253/12]] ...and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.63.0	Thank you, President. Could we appreciate the statements of your party spokesman, Mr. Sabrià, about the possible postponement of elections?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.64.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.65.0	This government's appreciation is clear. On the 14th of February there are elections and there must be conditions to be able to make elections. And precisely, in this Parliament, a working group met with different parliamentary groups and with the Government to ensure that. This is the appreciation before the statements of the Lord Sabria, who always, as it is natural, agree with him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.66.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.67.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, a few weeks ago Mrs. Meritxell Budó launched for the first time a probe balloon, although it was a secret to voices, of the will to exercise a postponement of the elections without even giving concrete reasons. At that time, his party expressed some indignation: "Let no, let no, let no, let no, that the elections would be yes or yes. That's what you said. After a few days Mr Sabrià rectified, which proves, therefore, that every time Junts per Catalunya squeezes their nuts a little, you shake their legs, such is the fear of being called « botiflers, such is the fear of being called « traitors». But these are neither ambiguities nor evasive moments. We are 16 December and you, as a government, have an obligation to explain to the Catalans what the Christmas campaign will be like and whether or not there will be elections. And they have to say it with transparency, with clarity and without rodeos of any kind. They can't hold the Catalans hostage from their internal fights, as they have been doing for three years constantly. Look, all I know is that in the U.S. they just made an election with full health guarantees. They are an advanced society, obviously, but we are supposed to be an advanced society too. As a result, we demand that you explain and state clearly and firmly the conditions for a possible postponement; I insist, unambiguously, with all clarity and transparency, or we will end up thinking that you are more afraid of the ballot box today than of the pandemic itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.68.0	To answer, again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.69.0	Thank you, President. I assume that you, Mr Fernández, did not attend any of your parties at this working meeting with parliamentary groups, in which you spoke in detail of the criteria; you spoke of the shields, clearly, from which... you had to put yourself on the table for health protection when the case came. That we will work with all our strength and work with all the capacity not of this government, but of the health services of this country, so that we do not get there, in the event that the elections are badly postponed. Miri, what I'm saying is that on the 22nd I will sign the election summons decree, as I do, and that they will continue to work to ensure health conditions not only for the electoral activity of the 14th of February, but for the activity of the public services, for the social activity and for the economic activity of this country. And that's the goal we're setting, and here's where we're centered and where we're working at cent_per_cent. We never have a ballot box. I've never, ever had, por, ballot boxes. A thousand days ago, Carme Forcadell was engaged, and she was engaged in the defence of the ballot box, in the defence of parliamentarianism, to be president of this Parliament. And we estimate both the ballot boxes, ours, and they don't make us out of the way. Therefore, Mr Fernández, the ballot boxes always, always, and above all, about all the questions, also about those that you do not like. And we'll end up voting for a self-determination referendum in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.70.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the balance of government action during the legislature]] [[317-00256/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.71.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. Mr. Aragones, what is your balance of government during this term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.72.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.73.0	So, honourable Member, this has been a legislature marked in the first place by the need, when it was formed, to raise 155, but in which repression has not disappeared. And the best example is that I am answering this question and not President Torra, because of an unfair disqualification, so for having taken a banner that defended the freedom of political prisoners and exiles, which is an idea that you and I share. Therefore, this has been a legislature marked by repression, but also marked by agreements that we have reached in this Parliament, as the agreement of assumptions, in which it meant..., assumptions that have been a step forward in this country, after many and many years, and that has been an essential element in fighting the pandemic as well. Without these assumptions, we've had many less tools. And it's also a legislature, obviously marked by the struggle against the Covid, a struggle that doesn't end and that needs the effort of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.74.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.75.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Aragones, as you say, has been an anonymous legislature. Basically, I'd add up to one more reason that you left. He commented on the unfair judgment of the Supreme Court and the very harsh consequences of the judicialization of the conflict; he spoke of the situation of the health crisis, of the Covid; but the social and economic crisis that we are experiencing with very hard. There were no families who had not recovered from the previous crisis and this time, therefore, they are still hitting us harder. Three years ago you, together with the CUP, invested Mr Quim Torra as President of the Generality. There's been a lot of things going on, but there's been a few constants, and it's this government's lack of self-criticism. There has been a government that has been constantly fighting – I want to remind you that not one of you has risen from the table of negotiations on Covid's measures so that you have discrepancies between the partners – a government that has been giving bands, that has said one thing and the counter; that has not sought alliances either in Catalonia or outside Catalonia; they have only ruled for the half of the country. The government has gone from improvisation to improvisation to the final blockade. And there has also been a government that we have seen centrifugal responsibilities on a permanent basis, and I believe that here the centrifugal camp has been the Councillor of Work and Social Affairs, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. What I'm saying is so obvious that even people who support this government support this government, so now they value it negatively. And the same President Torra has acknowledged that he has not advanced a thousand degrees in the social land, but neither in the national land. And here we would agree: I believe that of the few positive things that this legislature has had, it is a presuppositional agreement and being able to overcome the prorogation of 2017. In any case, now it's time to look at the present and the future. Now it's time to explain to the citizenry what our plan is, the plan of each and every one of us; ours can understand that it touches a lot of areas, but we do have a very concrete objective of all that we set for Catalonia, and it's that they don't govern those that they consider to be settlers, and this is Mr. Canadell, and that they don't govern those that make meetings with the extreme right, like Mr. Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.76.0	To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.77.0	This government has always been working for the whole of Catalonia. The assumptions that we approved together are for all the citizens of Catalonia, not just for what they think in a certain way. And the assumptions are the maximum expression of the political will of a government and its parliamentary alliances. Therefore, I believe that here you have to review this part of the argumentary, because it enters into a profound contradiction. The months that will come and the years that will come will be very important for this country. We will have to do two things now, two things now that will require broad, not only political alliances, but also social ones. For a band, we'll have to rebuild this country after a pandemic that we haven't overcome yet. The year you see, if everything goes well healthily, with all the vaccination, will be as symmunized as society and, therefore, we can begin the recovery. This economic and social reconstruction is essential, and not to rebuild a country and an economic model that perpetuated and increased inequalities, but the opposite. We will also have to respond to the effects in the matter of emotional and mental salvation that will leave the pandemic, the most invisible scars, but that will persist in time. And for another band, there will have to be another reconstruction: that of the political solution, that of the political solution to the conflict with the Spanish State, which continues, which continues in the form of repression, which is the only answer that has been made now. And the alternative to repression is politics, it's political solutions, it's the necessary agreement, the necessary dialogue, the necessary reference, the necessary amnesty and the necessary exercise of the right to self-determination. And this must also be the object of our own legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.78.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the balance of government action over the last three years]] [[317-00252/12]] The next question to the Vice-President is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.79.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Vice-President of the Generality, in place of the President, will excuse me, but the question is bound to be asked in the later plenary session: what balance have you made of the government's action in these three years?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.80.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.81.0	Therefore, taking into account that there has been a government that could not be formed because of the Supreme Court's interference until June, taking into account that its president has been disqualified and that we have been living together for all three years with a continued repression, that it has had the maximum expression in the Supreme Court's judgment against our governing partners and against the president of Parliament and social leaders of the NAC, taking into account that there have been some assumptions that have taken a step forward in the social services and that have been able to deal with the crisis caused by the pandemic, that there has been a recovery of investments in the good health care system that has been carried out for a long time, that has been agreed in the public accounts, but that the local government has been assured that it has been able to do so for a long time, that it has been able to deal with the crisis that has been caused by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.82.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.83.0	Thank you, President. He'll understand that our balance doesn't match his. Perhaps you have explained what seems good to you that the government has done; it is up to us to explain what we believe has not been done well or has not been done. For starters, forty-six days without public health secretaries immigrating from a pandemic. Inexplicable. We believe that the division of society, the erosion of institutions, the waste of time, energy and opportunities for the country have been carried out. This probably has to do with the strategy set by President Torra as a strategy of confrontation; President Torra, who also considered that the main obstacle to independence was the same autonomy, and this might explain why a good management of autonomy has not been a priority for you. There were no pacts with the opposition. You are now offering them further, but there has been neither a pact for economic recovery nor a pact for social reconstruction, nor a pact for salvation that you had undertaken. We are still the autonomous community with the least social inversion and the most treacherous in reversing the detail. For example, in two years the Generality's spending on salvation has dropped by 27_per_cent and, therefore, this later legislature has not served to reverse this davalada. Another example is that the universities received 1,000_million euros in 2010 and today 800 reben, a 20_per_cent menys. The investment in education has fallen by €700_million in this same period, it is 2.8_per_cent, from the lowest in Europe, up from 6_per_cent committed in the Catalonia Education Law. We are from the European regions with more school segregation, the fourth community in the state where the level of family income is more conditioned by academic performance. In industrial policies, we have gone from 165_million euros in 2010 to 50, enguany. Culture 2010 is devoted to 0.85_percent of GDP and now 0.61. With index mass of poor and poor children. We're at the C.O. in renewables. We believe that there have been wrong priorities, internal division and mismanagement, and we hope that on the 14th of fevering the citizens of our country will consider it time to change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.85.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Iceta, avoiding one's own responsibility is a mistake in which we always have to avoid falling. This government knows and knows, obviously, the uncertainties, but also mistakes that can be made whenever you are forced to make decisions, but also the responsibility of everyone. You mentioned the National Health Pact, an indispensable condition for this National Health Pact is its financing. The Colleges of Metges, with the support of the College of Economists, finance this in 15,000_million euros per year. You, in this Parliament, have voted against, precisely, this increase in health financing and to fix this necessary increase of 5,000_millions to reach 15,000_millions of health system funding. Therefore, we also talk about responsibilities. We also talk about the responsibilities, for example, of yourselves in the Government of the State in so many areas. He mentioned the field of universities, you make a clear bet for the CSIC, but the research centers in Catalonia are forgotten in their university and research policies. So we have a lot of work to do. Obviously, there is a lot of work to be done in the future, but you should also take a look at responsibilities. You, in this Parliament, have always been in disagreement, in constant opposition and in total lack of cooperation, not from the Government, but from the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.86.0	Thank you, Vice President, time is up. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the balance of the legislature and the project of the future]] [[317-00255/12]] The next question to the Vice-President is the formula on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.87.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, Vice-President. It wasn't an easy legislature, it started with a lot of difficulties, but in no case did we imagine it could end like this. From the mass repression of 2017, the return of institutions from 155 to the citizenry, the arrest, exile, hundreds and hundreds of cases, and finally the end of the pandemic, which has taken our lives, literally in mass cases. A pandemic that has put the world against the ropes and that has now once again posed a question to the Spanish State. A state that began the first recent wave, and the second... and the second one gets its hands together, and before that a government at the helm without enough tools to take it on board. Not just without the tools of a state, but for moments with a state against another time. And now, at the gates of finishing the legislature, at the gates of Nadal, with the latent risk of a virus that does not go away, it is up to us to continue rebuilding. We need to rebuild, help down, and always do it with a look at the Catalan Republic. He just felt like he was doing it to the Catalan Republic. To rebuild everything, the country, independence, to advance everything, the country and independence, and let's not say it, let's say it, because it's the only way out for this country. The management of the while is not a political resignation, in any case, because helping people is never giving up anything. Helps the local authorities, five expansions of hospitals, contracts of health and education personnel, reinforcement of the public sector, the Law of lloguers, the Law against discrimination, the Najat and Chakir Law, the fight against rape against women. And I give recent examples that please us all, because among those who spit barbarity, those who call accomplices, those who stay on the sidelines because they still don't know what they want to be when they grow up, managing the while is an obligation of all independence. The same obligation that we also have to resume a shared strategy, to advance in a political and democratic solution, to end repression, to make amnesty possible, to exercise self-determination. This is our proposal, because another legislature will come, and we will have to follow, to win the Covid, which we will do, and to win the State, which we will do again. Vice President, what's the balance with the legislature and what's the future look like? And only one second for Mr. Fernández, who got me out of the control session. I just said that I should be able to vote for everyone, not with Galicia, where you govern.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.88.0	To answer the question, you have the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.89.0	Thank you very much, President. This has been a legislature, as it was before, marked by repression at its beginning with, therefore, the difficulties for the Constitution of the Government. We were able to raise 155 and recover the kingdoms of the Generality, but it is also true that this repression was followed and marked throughout this legislature. Today, therefore, we cannot be held accountable for this monitoring session to the President of the Generality, and, despite this, this Government has continued to work, has continued to be at the forefront of the canon in the defense of social rights, economic rights and national rights of the citizens of Catalonia. This year, too, and this legislature, has been marked, like all our lives this 2020, by so many other people, and, sadly, by the people who have lost their lives to the Covid-19 pandemic, who have moved us. But this country has responded and it has been able to fold a first wave, and it has also done so with a second. Every time with more tools, every time also saving more lives, and that is why it is absolutely necessary that we all, all of us, are, therefore, with this self-discipline, with this responsibility for our lives and our lives, for our families, complement strictly all the requirements of the health authorities. Also, this has been the legislature in which after years, we had the last assumption of the year 2017, this 2020 was able to approve a presumption, which was an indispensable tool to have a basis from which also act in time of pandemic and to bring up to date social and economic policies. In the face of the pandemic, this government has acted. We're talking about half a hundred decrees you have in so many months to put up with what are the tools of the Public Administration, the tools of public services, to turn the Administration and the Government into the fight against the pandemic. We have strengthened and adapted the health system, the care system, the schools, to protect the health of the citizenry and why no one is left behind. And the next legislature has to be the legislature of reconstruction and the legislature also to advance towards the republic, because independence is more necessary than ever, and independence is up to accumulating forces, accumulating democratic legitimacy, establishing strong alliances, also placing the management of the while as an example of what the management of the republic we want to build must be. The republic and independence will only be if it is widely shared, and this is our goal and is our strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.90.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the ability to govern for all citizens and self-criticism in the way to do it]] [[317-00254/12]] The next question to the Vice-President is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.91.0	Mr Aragonès, an incapacitated president, a poor balance of the pandemic and the same division between Catalans. Do you think you are able to govern for all when your last proposal for Catalonia is an amnesty for a dozen convicts? Can we expect some self - criticism from you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.92.0	To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.93.0	It's government with generosity, it's government with responsibility and never with revenge. The amnesty, precisely, is the tool to solve politically what is a political conflict that should never have been brought to justice. It is an absolutely necessary tool to open the doors of a democratic solution to the conflict that we are patenting. We, Mr. Carrizosa, are not the ones of revenge. We are not the ones who believe that our political opponents, for the many differences we have, for the many antipodes we have, must go to prison. I will always defend your right to defend your ideas, your right to have political initiatives, and how I will do that with the right of the independenceists to carry our political initiatives. Therefore, amnesty is the tool of the solution, its tool that you propose is revenge and with revenge they will never find us because revenge does divide, never join a society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.94.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.95.0	Mr Aragonès, justice is not revenge and amnesty can be inequality. And I see that you say goodbye without recognizing your mistakes. His Government has been impervious to the pandemic and lives and jobs have been lost. When the Catalans needed wisdom and harmony, you have sown division and shamed us all with more corruption. In this plenary of corruption, which we have driven from Ciutadans, we have seen how you have kept quiet both Republican Left and the Socialist Party, which is the umpteenth proof that you are negotiating a tripartite. Mr.Iceta forgives you for your lack of explanation about the Volhov case because Mr.Iceta also has to shut up about Mrs.Núria Marín's alleged corruption in Hospitalet. Where were you on Monday, Mr. Iceta? Is that tripartite omerta what we're going to have to endure the Catalans in the year 2021? Well, no. Look, Mr. Rufián said the other day that Ciutadans is the worst thing that has happened to Catalonia. I tell you that Ciutadans is the worst that has happened to nationalism and the best that has happened to Catalonia open, inclusive and proudly plural. Of course, the opposition you like is that of the PSC because you are its preferred partners, the Socialist Party in Congress and here you expect it to be in the Parliament of Catalonia. So, it's normal for you to be lukewarm. But look, we, unlike you too, did come here to manage an autonomy and not to cover up problems or corruption with stellate. And we're proud of it and we're not going to stop until all Catalans get out of the crisis. You only think about the future of ten condemned or escaped people and now you need a Catalonia for all. Let go of those who do want to work for all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.96.0	To answer the words of the vice president again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.97.0	Thank you, President. Mr Carrizosa, when you see in this Parliament and you say that you want to rule for everyone, that you are this open Catalonia, you want to represent the open Catalonia, the diverse Catalonia, the plural Catalonia, but you are also willing to make pacts with the extreme right of Vox, when you see in this Parliament and tell us all this and you are also willing to stand up in this Parliament with the extreme right of your own legislature, you show that clearly your speech is a cluster of cynicism and a cluster of extreme Spanish nationalism. Because that's what you came here to do in this legislature. You in this legislature have come here to wink. You've basically dedicated this legislature to taking out banners, mounting up in this House. When you talk about the degradation of institutions, which you have repeatedly done in this House of Parliament, to curtail the freedom of Members, to threaten from the Faristol from the point of view of criminal law to Members and Members who defend an ideology different from their own. But do you know what's going on, Mr. Carrizosa? That the city of Catalonia has already dropped them. The citizens of Catalonia have already dropped them, and they have seen that with a game that goes hand in hand with the extreme right, that defends the chrispancy, that its electoral negotiation is the division, with you no longer trust it. At these times, you have disastrous electoral prospects. That's why he's trying to get in the way of Mr. Iceta, so listen to me, he's cheating on whoever he wants, but there's going to be Republican Independence, Progressive Independence, Rigorous Independence, which is very clear that defending the present is the best way to achieve a future of freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.98.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the results of the Study of Trends in Mathematics and Sciences and the Situation of Education]] [[310-00444/12]] The following question about the results of the Study of Trends in Mathematics and Sciences and the Situation in Education, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.99.0	Thank you. Good morning, President, Counsellor. As you know a few weeks ago, they published the results of the TIMSS study, which analyses the skills of the fourth grade student in science and mathematics, and these results left Catalonia to us under the middle of the OECD but also the middle of Spain. We wanted to know, Counselor, what is the government's understanding of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.101.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs. Member, you know that this study, which is partial and which is questioned by some members of the international educational community, gives results between positive and negative comets to our educational system. That I question both the one who denies us as the one who gives the positive, if we don't put them in the context of what the study is and that, in any case, when you reformulate, I can do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.102.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.103.0	Counselor, we don't think the results of this study are the result of a better or worse promotion, but they're not random either. What you're pointing out is that there's something wrong with the system, and it doesn't really freak us out after a lost decade where neither the government you represent nor those who have preceded them from d'Artur have made a clear bet for education. We have two years of infra-financing where, as Mr. Miquel Iceta said before, they have spread more than €700_million in investment in education. Unreversed details could speak of the six hour, but also of the working conditions of the teachers, of the lack of investment in the maintenance and construction of what should be the first equipment, such as the schools and public institutes, and also of details in the public offer of teacher training, an offer each time more necessary considering that we go to each more complex, more diverse, and teachers and teachers are there many times without the necessary resources, without tools or paying for the formation of the own butxaca. We also wear too many years hoping to advance towards inclusive school, and you haven't even deployed the 2017 Decree, when it's an equal opportunity issue; or too many years talking about professional education and neither have you pushed a law of 2015 nor created enough public offer, or have you strengthened guidance in secondary school, when we hardly have early school drop-out taxes that are likely to double the European middle school. And Mr. Miquel Iceta also said: "We duplicate, we are of the regions with more school segregation, we make it family more conditioned this academic performance. We're still waiting for the admission order. In Catalonia, the poor student repeats three times more than the middle school. And, therefore, leaders in school drop-outs, in segregation, but to the cua in educational reversal. We don't have to be surprised that these studies give us bad results. Counselor, I'm sure the causes of these results are multiple, but in any case we believe that neither the education system nor the educational community deserve the abandonment they've suffered in the last few years. And we sincerely hope that our own legislature has a government that actually makes a clear bet for the betterment and modernization of the system, that guarantees fairness and, more importantly, believes and works to maximize educational success and provides the necessary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.104.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.105.0	Thank you, President. Well, I see you asked the question to do the electoral campaign. All right, huh? I mean, you can do whatever you want, obviously, that's why you're a Member of this Parliament, and our government respects the freedom of deputies and deputies, not like some Spanish courts or some prosecutions. In any case, as you have asked a question, I will not now refer to some data that you have given and some false data that you have given in your speech, that you know who they are and who they are. So it won't take long for me to remember that. Anyway, for what he does to study Teens, various things. First, it's a study that's a quarter of a grade, so it's at the middle of a stage; at the middle of a stage that's not the same as all the places in Europe, and so it doesn't have the same curriculum development. That's why many European states don't, and in the Spanish state only five autonomous communities don't. There is a very important, negative fact that it is the bretxa of genere, at home and throughout Europe; very important. And there is a positive fact: we are from the places of Europe where, according to the study, the economic and origin differences have less influence on the results. Therefore, according to the study, we are of the most equitable places in Europe. Look, I don't think that, because I'm not, I'm not badly off about the fairest European places, but I don't think that we're following some places in Europe with worse results, because the same reason that makes me doubt the positive outcome of the study makes me doubt the negative results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.106.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Subsidies of the Department of the Presidency to the Language Platform]] [[310-00445/12]] The next question is about the Subsidies of the Department of the Presidency to the Language Platform, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.107.0	Good morning. In Catalonia, harassment of workers and self-employed people, usually of foreign origin, begins to be frequent, not to mention in Catalan. The last few weeks have been harassed by a bakery addict, a clothing shop addict, and a pizza shop owner. And from here I want to show all my support and that of my group to these women. It is very serious that these attacks have occurred, but it is even more serious that an arch-subsidized entity, such as Platform for Language, has encouraged these attacks, as we can see in this tweet. Counselor, do you condemn these attacks and that Platform for Language has encouraged this boycott, as we can see in this tweet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.108.0	To answer the question, you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Angels Ponsa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.109.0	Thank you, President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. Look, honourable Member, as on other occasions, and it is quite obvious, you ask repeated questions, without knowing or knowing what department has the competence, and you are asking that we have answered them so many times that, frankly, I hope that in your second intervention you will tell us something more that I can answer, because what you have said so far, so you have more than you have answered.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.110.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.111.0	I repeat: the competence to condemn attacks on workers and self-employed people, from which department is it? What a shame that you are not able to condemn the attack on working women, for defending your friends from Platform per la Llengua, who take millionaire subsidies from separatist parties, but also from socialists and Podemos. And what do they do with the money of all Catalans? For, spying on children in school spaces, harassing workers and self-employed, and now also drafting the amendment to the Celaá law, which stains Spanish and which has motivated the complaint of hundreds of writers from the RAE and the American Academy of Spanish Language. It is a pity that socialists prefer to go by the hands of radicals rather than our intellectuals and academics. Look, we're in a pandemic situation. The workers and the self-employed are having a terrible time, and many businesses have either closed or are about to close. And you, instead of helping those businesses, trade and restoration, give the money to some xenophobes who encourage the boycott against businesses that can end up closing. Is it not embarrassing to give money to people who provoke boycotts against Catalan businesses? Because the Platform for Language app is like these painted, but with wifi, money that is going to stop an opaque entity, that does not make its accounts public in Brussels, because it is that maybe that money is not going to promote Catalan, but to cover the high life train that Puigdemont carries. Look, they're doing a lot of damage to the Catalan, because the languages have two great enemies: those who want to ban them and those who want to impose them. And you are on the side, as we have just seen, of those who want to impose it, even harassing working women, as we have seen these days. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.112.0	To answer, you have the word "conseller" again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.113.0	Miri, do you know what's going on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.114.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.115.0	Let these mantras that you repeat day by day also not lead us in place, not lead us in place. You have made use of your right to ask, throughout the legislature, and ask the government for information, as well as the correspondents. From the government he's returned enough. In fact, they have repeated so many questions that I believe this is a practice that you have done away with and given them the opportunity to become headlines, but, if they think about it, they have done a lean favor... and I would say that it has cost a lot of money to the public archives, to the contributor, because it has had to spend a lot of time answering questions, which have generated many administrative and managerial inefficiencies. Therefore, if you had read the answers given to them, you would not have asked them so many times and therefore made a user responsible for managing the information. On all these grants, you have first-hand information. We've given them all the shipping from the last five years. They have all the financial audits, they consist of assumptions, which are public, and they can verify it in government agreements, which you know are published on the web page. Therefore, I invite you to review the information you have, to say things as they are and not to catch them, to stop using the language to generate confusion and confrontation between the citizenry. Because language – I remind you – is an element of cohesion. In this country it's always been like this, before its appearance. Ever since you appeared, the language wants to turn it into a political weapon of political confrontation, when the language has never followed. Because the language has reached a parliamentary and social consensus in this Parliament before its arrival. Therefore, think carefully and reflect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.116.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the balance of European aid]] [[310-00447/12]] The next question is about the balance of European aid and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.117.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members and Members and, if I may, today is the end of this parliamentary term, as well as remembering and claiming the President of Parliament, Carme Forcadell, who today bears a thousand days unjustly undertaken. President, we consider you and we want you free. [[Greetings.]] It will advise, rural development, innovation and transfer of knowledge in the agri-food sector, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, protection of natural resources, economy, occupation and youth, promoting generational networking are some of the policies that we have been defending since the Republican Left to boost and, therefore, finance in its rural and primary sectors. The Feders, the funding tool for implementing the common agricultural policy and European strategy, also have these principles in their objectives. Promoting competitiveness in agriculture, ensuring sustainable management of natural resources and climate action, balanced territorial development and rural economies and communities through employment creation and rural development programmes (RDPs) is one of the main instruments available to the Government of Catalonia to do so. Some development programs that we know the Department of Agriculture ages and works to award them in its totality. In the face of the social, economic and health crisis caused by Covid-19, which has also affected the rural world and the primary sector, the European Commission has published the possibility of giving aid to agricultural holdings and to processing companies, marketing and development of agricultural products that have been affected in their liquidity and cash flow as a result of the pandemic. We know of the effort made by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food during this year, in the midst of the Covid pandemic, to ensure the management of the CAP funds, vital for the maintenance and modernization of the Catalan agricultural sector. Since 2011, the Government of the Generality has managed more than €3,300_million in direct aid to farms and in the rural development of the Community's common agricultural policy, and has, for example, invested in the generational replenishment, where aid has been granted to 2,400 young people, which has meant an increase of 35_percent in the incorporation into the camp, as well as in innovation and sustainability. Will you advise, how much does the DARP have on the establishment of these help us in the sector to deal with the crisis generated by the Covid-19?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.118.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.119.0	Thank you very much, President, Vice President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Thank you, too, Congresswoman. Add me, of course, to this record and to this immense embrace of President Forcadell. Let's say that during the last few weeks they have gone out – you said it – different initials claiming to the Department of Agriculture that you summoned these aids that you were talking to us about the European Commission. I'd like to make a couple of things clear. The first is that the proposed Regulation establishes that the Member States– and in the case of Catalonia the fund managers, because at the moment we are only fund managers– can summon these aid always – and this is very important – using the available funds, the available funds of the Rural Development Programme. Therefore, when the funds are available, the funds are available, not additional funds. And the second thing I'd like to make clear, too. It is vital that you know that today the Catalonia Rural Development Programme has a degree of implementation of almost 57_per_cent, that is, to say already paid aid, and, very important, it has a programming – or still, called aid – of 98_per_cent, and we have not yet finished the period. That's to say, this happens when the territories comply, obviously, with what they ask. And now I've allowed a question and a reflection. The question respects these serious aids: what programmed aids should we deprogram in order to summon those who are asking us? Because I let myself be clear about it: it's about this, pulling the strings of some help summoned to pass them on to others. And now, if you'll allow me, it's a reflection: you can't fool people. More. In fact, it should be prohibited to deceive people, and still much less for private interests, political interests or media notoriety. It's not all right. And especially among people who know what these things are all about. Because creating false expectations generates, in the end, not always, frustration. And to generate frustration in a sector like ours, which we have said so many times is a key sector and a sector that is essential for the country, will convince you and will convince all of you with a server that it is irresponsible from all points of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.120.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the motii that have prevented the access to information about the administrative disciplinary expedients processed for the Division of Internal Affairs in the last three years]] [[320-02075/12]] The next question is about the motivations that have prevented easier access to information about the administrative disciplinary expedients processed for the Division of Internal Affairs in the last three years, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr Matías Alonso spoke about it. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.121.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, this question is the second I'm asking the government that you represent today and what you're referring to as the "government of open data." I suppose it's because of the fact that Catalan personal data years ago come back unchecked by the Internet, after the mass robber who was the separatist conjurers perpetrated in 2017. This additional question that has been put to me by the regulatory mandate has nothing to do with the supposed transparency of its government; more quickly it is the result of the opacy that we are accustomed to. Now a year ago, in September 2019, together with the deputies of Ciutadans Jean Castel and Carlos Sánchez, I asked the Government, through the Bureau of this Parliament and in accordance with the regulatory procedure, anonymized copy of the disciplinary expedients initiated or resolved with sanction or without meaning for the Division of Internal Affairs depending on the Directorate General of the Police of his department. Months to engage the cat without satisfactory response from its department, counselor, have given place to the owner of the guarantee body of access to the public information of Parliament and to this additional question. Let's finish the legislature, and this government, which has made its mark of opacity, has not provided us with the requested information. And why did we ask for it? Because we've seen a lot of anomalies in the functioning of the DAI. Because the witnesses of agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra issued for the DAI with lack of guarantees, let us think that there are reasons left to know with detail how this division works poorly. Because some of the actions of the DAI may come to think that in their actions there may be a motive for political persecution. Because several disciplinary envoys who have ended up with a sanction for agents of the Squadron Mosses, have been annulled by the administrative litigation court. Because the police unions have done a kind of denouncing procedural anomalies in the functioning of the Internal Affairs Division. The lack of response from your department, counselor, makes you think you might have something to store. Do you think the agents of the Squad Mossos deserve to feel helpless because of the lack of guarantees in the DAI disciplinary expeditions? Have you thought about reorganizing the DAI? When will we get the requested information?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.123.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, mirin, we are totally in agreement with what the body of guarantee of the rights to access public information shows, I would just miss. But, like everything else, there are a few limits. Look, I'll give you a brief account of what parliamentary action has been about with questions and information from the Citizens' Group. In concrete terms, 789 written questions were given to all of them. Information requests made in this legislature, 245; 245, 244 have been answered, and one, indeed, has not been answered. This dispatcher or this request made by Ciutadans involved the anonymization of forty-thousand follies. Look, there's a Supreme Court ruling that says that this right actually exists, it can't be questioned, but that it has a limit, that it's the limit of having to make and not asking generic questions. You asked, for the three-year period, all the consignors; therefore, it is located just in the content of this Supreme's feeling. And what does this Supreme feeling say? That when it's not concrete and it's generic questions, it can lead us to answers that would require the intervention of so many people that practically its result would be impossible. Look at this. When you say the Supreme's feeling that it has to be concrete and that it doesn't have to be generic, what you're saying is that you can't collaps a public service. And you don't have to forget that Interior, in the pandemic, is having an exceptional relevancy. In fact, by government, yesterday, a decree passed in which sixty-six contracts were to be made in order to be able to respond to all that is the task that Interior has to do in this pandemic. So, you're right when you say you should have given the information. But asking a question of not knowing how many thousands of expedients in relation to more than forty-thousand pages that are to be anonymized and immigrated from a pandemic where we have to make a contract of sixty-six people perfectly explains that the only question of the 245 that has not been answered obeys this criteria that the same Supreme says, that is to avoid the col·lapse of a public administration, col·lapse that has been given if this question has been sent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.124.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the staff of the Home Service]] [[401-00049/12]] After the control session, let's move to the next points of order the day. Before we do, however, we will read the Parliamentary Declaration on the staff of the Home Service, signed for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. To give us reading I give the word to the fourth secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Rut Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.125.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the staff of the Home Service. Home care services are an organized set of resources and actions aimed at people who, for reasons of age, dependency or disability, have limited autonomy for their basic activity in daily life or require permanent care and distance. The people who work in these services, the auxiliaries of the school and the family workers, have long-term tasks such as hygiene and care services, physical help, control of food and medication, follow-up outside the school, preparation of meals and cleaning at home, or guidance in the administration of the domestic economy. Covid-19's pandemic has been a tough time for the company's joint venture and has forced it to make confinements and take other measures that have received an extensive and rigorous compliment. Both the pandemic and the changes experienced in Western society the past decades, for what it does to social, demographic and economic models, place us before a crisis of the systems of cures. The Catalonian Parliament expresses its recognition of the task of persons working in the home help service and of the care in general, who have made every possible day to combat the pandemic and have guaranteed direct attention to the user in a context of maximum complexity, which has generated them a remarkable physical and emotional wear, as the Parliament has already recognized in Resolutions 911/XII, on the general political orientation of the Government, and 849/XII, on the management of residences for large people and persons with disabilities during the Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, the Catalonian Parliament expresses its concern about the precarious working and wage conditions of this sector, which is strongly feminized, and urges the public authorities to set aside the necessary policies to tackle this situation, recognizing the home care sector as one of the main areas of the Catalonian social welfare system's presence and future. Palau del Parlament, 16 September 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.126.0	Thank you. [[Comparison of the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of Covid-19]] [[350-00020/12]] Let's move on to the third point of the order of the day, which is the appearance of the Vice President of the Government to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of Covid-19. As the Vice-President of the Government has requested to appear before the plenary to inform of the further steps taken by the Government, the Vice-President, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the word, and later they will also take the word, on behalf of the Government, the Councillor d'Interior, Mr Miquel Sàmper, and the Councillor of Salut, Mrs Alba Vergés, by this order. Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors and councillors, I appear again before the chamber, and we will do so in the late Ple ordinari of this legislature, to account for the actions that we are taking with the Government in Catalonia before the Pandemic of the Covid-19 and also that we are in a state of alarm situation, and, therefore, I correspond to the Government of Catalonia, as the competent authority, the management of this state of alarm. And, out of democratic respect for this chamber and the city of Catalonia, we voluntarily subdue ourselves..., it was not a precept, but we voluntarily subdue ourselves to the control of the managements linked to the state of alarm in this chamber. And I start with this intervention, and then the Sámper and Vergés advisors will run the word, which will go into much more detail. Therefore, it will be a short intervention, but I want you to have a clear message. And the message is that we're not doing well – we're not doing well. And we need to talk to everyone at the clarity and all at the franchise. The citizens of Catalonia deserve their government and their administrations, their representatives, respect them as adults and responsible people. We're not doing well. We don't go well. The evolution of the pandemic of the last few days, after we managed to stabilize the second wave, is extremely worrying. In this Parliament, we have been alerted for 15 days..., we have been alerted, so when we consider the totally exceptional situation that we live in like the country. Fifteen days ago, we explained that the good evolution allowed us to start making some flexibility, but that we had to go with great care, that we could propose a progressive flexibility of the measures limiting mobility and social interaction, but that this management of the greatest epidemiological risk obliged us and obliged us to be constantly alert and to act with the utmost responsibility. That's why they made measures more flexible. But we also made it very clear that we can't relax at any time; that the self-protection commitment that we all have to take at the individual level is essential. Since March, we've been living in a global pandemic. It's been many months, many days, but let's not forget that we're in a pandemic, a global pandemic. Let's look at Europe, let's look at the world. We are not an island, we are not the exception, we are not touched by the divine mind that you tell us that what is happening to the rest of Europe will not pass us. This pandemic has not gone away; it is the worst health crisis in mankind in the last hundred years, except for armed conflicts. We warn of the need to go a little bit, because the experience tells us and teaches us continuously that in question of days the pandemic can be out of control and that when it is out of control it is very difficult to stop and that you need many more days to stop it. We warned that there was the possibility of not being able to change the tram, because we began to have indications that that positive dynamic in which we were immersed was actuating, and we did not change the tram. And we also warned that if the trend change was confirmed, we would be forced to stop again and admit the possibility that some step could be taken back in the measures, and we are here today in this disjunctive. It was possible to place the data in a strip that allowed us to keep the Covid stabilized, but in a few days and in a sudden way the amounts of infection are returning very quickly and alarmingly. We set ourselves as the objective: a maximum of 1,000 infected days, a maximum of three hundred people to ICUs, the transmission rate below 1. And it is true that for a few days and a few weeks we have advanced very well, that we have reduced in a very important way what is the name of people hospitalized since the peak of the second wave and also, and above all, the name of people in ICUs, that we are still in ICUs on this stabilized part. But we're seeing the transmission rate grow back in the last few days, and worryingly, and we have to stop it the way it is. The public health and emergence services of this country have been putting all the tools for rapid detection. We've been doing and we're continuing to do massive cracks in those areas of the population where there's a greater risk, because it's much better than pre-detection. We've introduced new diagnostic techniques. We have been increasing hospital capacity, as well as from the care point of view keeping the ability reactive to point. But there is not enough, as there is not enough for the rest of Europe. And, therefore, it has to be stopped. Whatever. Those words I'm saying today will sound like we've already repeated them many times. And, in fact, we've repeated it a lot. I understand that we are all tired of these repeated claims to responsibility when we carry many months with us in exemplary form; when many months a very significant, very majority share of the citizenry is acting with the utmost individual effort and with all the collective commitment. But we won't stop calling for responsibility. Because this virus we carry people and it's contagious because of the activity we make people, because of the social interaction we have people. And we'll follow in the footsteps of responsibility. And if someone's tired of feeling it, I'm sorry, he'll keep hearing that we're calling for responsibility, that we're putting up new detection tools and also new reaction tools, increasing hospital capacity. The data are very clear. And if we can't stabilize them back down, we'll have to slow them down again. He's not in doubt today, or he's on the tram. Today, as Dr. Argimon said this morning, if there is not a better number of data in the next few days, it is probably very painful to follow, a step back, to protect the health system. And, in fact, a few months ago we said that we would take the necessary measures, that we would not trembling our pulse, that we would take the measures that we needed to save lives and to continue to save lives. And we are also aware of the economic and social impacts it has. And that, for a lot of effort we can make up for, it's obvious. And, therefore, we also go where we need to look for resources to protect the jobs; we need them. And we see how, therefore, there are often governments that advise, that accompany, that we have been able to collaborate in the health field, but that it is a much greater involvement in the field of resources to protect, apart from the vines, the places of work. Because one thing without the other... we don't have the strength to put up with this virus. It is exhausting, certainly, but more exhausting is for health professionals and residents. We were just beginning to re-open some activities in a partial way. We know we have the Nadal in the canton, but the evolution of data does not lead us to be optimistic. The proper days are key: either we stop the trend or we have to put restrictive measures on the table. There have been countries around us: Germany, France, Netherlands, Italy, the United Kingdom. And this government has shown that if it is necessary to do so, we will. But we'll do better, too. We'll do better. I know we're just over a week away from Nadal, it's a very important date for a lot of people. An era of the special year, in which many families find themselves. But this year, many families won't be able to go back. First, because there will be missing people who, sadly, have left us. Many, because of the pandemic. But many families can't get together like we've always done. We're missing people, they're going to be different parties, and obviously, that's hard, but it's necessary. Absolutely necessary. After a very difficult year, we always get used to serving the Nadal and the step of the year as a balance of the months we've lived. And these months have been extremely difficult; very hard, sanitaryly, economically, emotionally. We talked about it at the back Ple. And, therefore, surely we all need the quality that our families, our friends could give us, with those findings that we've been doing every year, that's the illusion of finding you with yours, the illusion that the little ones in the house can play with their cousins or hugging the kisses. I also, and I'm sure that all of you, are dying to have a normal life, to be able to celebrate a Nadal with normality, that my daughter can embrace her kiss, her kiss and play with her cousins. And that we can all celebrate that we are still alive and with salvation, by luck. But it can't be. It can't be for a lot of people, for a lot of people that can't hurt us, because we have the lives of the people we believe. After so many months, we can't accept and I can't accept that we have normalized the tragedy. And tragedy is the dead. We are in a pandemic; we cannot relativize the dead. As much as there's a cipher that's been repeated, they're not ciphers, they're people. We can't relativize it. It is therefore essential to take the necessary measures. And it's imperative that we take them all as seriously as possible. If we don't comply with the standards, we're putting our own ones in danger. If we think that in order to get you out of our cohabitation bin, we are putting in danger the most vulnerable who are related to our cohabitation bin. If we think that with an administrative sting, we can circumvent the standards, we can fool the standards, but the virus, no. We're encouraging him to move around. If we find more of the authorities, of the authorized people, it is not a breach or a challenge to the authority, it is a challenge to a virus that has shown us that it is much stronger than we are. And the only way to make us strong is with this individual and collective responsibility, at the expense of the essential task of increasing the detection capacity and response capacity of the health system. Therefore, and before giving the word to councillor Sàmper and councillor Vergés, a last message: we must be the maximum of seekers, the maximum of curios. We need to act with all the awareness and caution of the world, because we do not risk the compliment of a norm; we are not putting at risk the compliment of warnings or public health recommendations, we are putting at risk the people we believe. You're talking about life. And we want to save lives. In this world, there is nothing more beautiful, nothing more than, a lost time can no longer be recovered, like life. Let's have it. They come in complicated times, but this country has left, in previous situations, and I am convinced that it will go out. We need courage, we need resources, we need strength. And this country, you got it. Thank you to all and responsibility for the day they come and the holidays they come. Good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.128.0	Thank you, Vice President. As we have announced, the word now has the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.129.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, mirin, I came with notes prepared, basically for you, therefore, the information of the things that have been done, of the actions that have been done from the Interior, as will also the Councillor Vergés, from Salut, but, certainly, the news that they have been appearing during this morning, for example, the information that Dr Argimon has given us, until all the appearance that has now been held in the Congress of Deputies by the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, and certain articles that begin to say that, for example, to Extremadura, Madrid, València and the Balearic Islands can already say, in fact, that they are in a situation of the third day, they surely do not speak with the notes that I carried, without sudden intervention. Moreover, the intervention made by Vice-President Pere Aragonès, therefore, put us on the line of what I was commenting on, which today began to be expressed by the opinionators and, above all, by our health authorities, and I am talking about Dr. Argimon. Actually, things aren't right. We were in a Rt, a few days ago, of a certain medical docility, which we had certainly controlled, we got to be under 1, and now we're over 1 and with a clearly upward trend. Dr. Argimon told us today that we would have to wait a couple of days to make clear what the trend was, but that the result could be quite negative. It is therefore clear that what the Vice-President has just said must make us all reflect. And this reflection, who's got to be tougher in the end, is the government of the generality, huh? The Government of the Generality, as you know, therefore, chose a long time ago, to try to be able to govern this pandemic, to direct it, therefore, taking into account the twin health and society and economy. And that's not minor people. This was society's request. That is to say, the government is only one day changed and said: greeting and punch, and now salvation and economy and society, but it was the demand, the cry, I would say, unanimous of a large part of society. We're going to have questions where it's hoped that, at 60, more than 60 percent of the population, they were more concerned about the economic and social repercussions of this second wave, than not the medicine. And, man, that has a relevancy, but in no case does it exempt politicians and rulers from ever obliving the health-care side, God guarding us. The binomi isn't easy people, huh? And, in fact, the existence of this binomial has been capcal, I would say, that of all the public media in our country, in the last two months. And the complexity of getting to a solution is very, very complicated. You all know that. All parliamentary groups know this complexity. In fact, here you are also those who have claimed that our government takes into account this binomial of what is the self-economic impact and also the health care provider. And I link up with what the vice president said: the data has taken hold, and this is a reality. And that means we forget the existence of the binomial? No, but it's a little more complicated. That is to say, if last week, with the Rt that we had and with the hospital cases, we were clear that we could afford the luxury of making the resolution that was the disagreement with the Process, with effects from the dilluns and that will, for example, have an affect this weekend, with an already regional and non-municipal perimeter confinement, so obviously this would not happen now with the same joy, because the data has changed. And the pandemic is so changing. And, therefore, I would also say that we are all very clear that the responsibility lies with everyone: the Government, parliamentary groups as well, and of course, with citizens. Mirin, I want to give you some examples, now we've seen Germany, France, the Netherlands take restrictive measures again, huh? , very clean to which would be confinements practically like the ones we held to the first wave, to the first phase of the first wave. And neither is it right to put it as the only example, because it is obvious that behind these decisions made by these governments, there is an economic support. And this is evidence. That's to say, if we have the opportunity to pay 75 percent of the bills in the affected sectors, no doubt – and that's what I said here a couple of times ago and I think Dr. Argimon has said a lot more – that it would still be closed. Because it's obvious that there's no better way that there's no social interaction than confining us all to our home and only having the opportunity to go out for the purely essential services. But it turns out we're not Alemanya, we're not France and we're not Holland. And have there been countries that have been able to live with the pandemic? So yes. We have the example of Japan. Let's look at what Japan has done. Japan is a country that has a density, as you know, huge. Therefore, it is not comparable to the example of New Zealand, which also has a very good pandemic outbreak level indexes, but that we would set ourselves a trap if we set an example, because New Zealand has a very small density, in no case comparable to us and much less than the Japanese have. But the Japanese must set an example for us. They have only done one thing that has not been able to do any other country, or very few, which is to make the norm of the five basic structural rules. There's five of them. Some, which you know of memory: distance, hands and mask; and two more, which have been taking on much relevancy in the last few days – in the last month, I would say – that it is very clear the concept of lack of social interaction, and very and very clear what the concept of ventilation is. The Japanese, who know that they are methodical as few, are aware of these five measures. And, therefore, they have distance, wear masks or masks, look at hygiene as a form of speech and, above all, they have diminished social interaction between them and have encouraged artificial or mechanical ventilation in enclosed places and promote that all activities are done abroad. For example, it has been possible to prohibit that in sporting events – which is a fan – people can cry, because the fact of shouting, animating, for example, in a football game or a game of anything else, implies the removal of the aerosols, and, therefore, of the drops of saliva, which are the ones that end up causing that everyone, although we wear masks, has more chance of contagious us. We're not Japanese, it's obvious, we're Latin, there's a difference, I'd say one hundred and forty degrees, but it's at our hands..., and the vice president also shouted out that among all of us we're still able to do what the two-named "health-economy" can do. Mirin, from Civil Protection, this week, and so that we can fund this change that we have made with this resolution of the past disbanded with effects from before yesterday, we have given the argument to these changes fundamentally with the subject of ventilation. We have established that, in the accounts of the twelve-litres per person and per second, there must have been no success because the quality of the ventilation and regeneration of the area is optimal and correct. And this allows us to keep up, therefore, to say that those malls that have this ventilation at the upper level, that, for example, the cultural equipment that has this ventilation at this upper level, can open with the topalls that have been set up. And we have gone, for example, to have a topall in the 50_per_cent culture, up to five hundred people as high as a thousand. And we've had to keep the malls closed to open them with a top of 30_per_cent, but always always conditioned to this excellent ventilation. And with this speech, what do I want to say to them? I intend to say to them that, even today, the government has not made any decisions, because the government is beginning to analyse this setback of data, which we already know a couple or three days ago..., still has no decisions. What I want to say is that it is at our hands to maintain the existence of this binomial. Listen, how before we talk about transparency, and I think that here we are obliged, not to be transparent, but to the next, the survival of this two-named health-economy is terribly difficult. If we now take a step back with restrictive measures like the first wave, we will see again how the media say that we have to have this binomial, because, in the gang of the pandemic of salvation, there is also a social and economic pandemic. And that's the reality. And what do I want to say to them with that? So, man, it would be wonderful if we could pull through with the same measures, not to pull back, but that requires a compromise of all. And everyone wants to say it all – everyone wants to say it all. I know it's a good thing that the politician always says that the first person responsible is him, and it's true, the first person responsible for the pandemic and managing it well is the government, that no one thinks I'm saying the opposite; we're the ones with our decisions, some uncertainties and other mistakes, that's evidence. But I think I also have the obligation, based on my obligation here as I put it, to say that responsibility lies with everyone; with all citizens, including parliamentary groups. We must bear in mind that if we are able to extend this will to serve the five structural measures, the five, we could allow the Japanese to do as they do. And the Japanese, beyond a very short confinement that they had at the first wave, have not returned to confinement. And what have they done? So they did something very simple, which is to say: "We until we have the vaccine and the cure, or the cure and the vaccine, what we have to do is live together, live together with this virus, live together with the pandemic. And they've done it. We are different, it is obvious, but I ask you, I ask you to listen to us, I ask the citizenry, that we make a last attempt, please, to deal with these things that we are saying, and we make another last attempt, above all, to be curious and serious, very serious, with our decisions. It is not possible this year to pretend to pose in front of our social interests the staff. It's an exceptional year. To all of us – and now the vice president explained it very concretely – we would like to be able to be with our friend, with our daughter, with our friends and with our aunts. It can't be. But above all, we have a lot of risk that we can take with our parents, for example – I set my example, two years old and two years old – at home, and for example – and I also set an example for myself – a daughter of mine, who is a master, and, therefore, who is seen with so many students every day, I can spread the virus to my mother or father. Is it hard? No, I'm following it: it's tough, but we have to do it. I'll give you an example. In the United States, on Thanksgiving, the Rt practically advanced vertically – practically vertically. What makes us think that we're not going to get the same for Nadal if we try to get our Nadal to be a Lati Nadal? So I'll ask them, please, please, let's see if we can get together in Japanese. Listen, when we have the remei, when we have the vaccine, when our parents are vaccinated, especially our parents are vaccinated, we celebrate the Nadal, the month of February or the month of March, we find ourselves later, not two bottles, no, five, if necessary, of the family, and we go to celebrate it on the February or the month of March, but with our already vaccinated couples. And now we're on track, really, of, for the benefit of the whole society, of all Catalonia, trying to make sure that the government doesn't have to pull back. We don't want to pull back, but we'll have to pull back if there's no global compromise of the whole society and of all political groups, which is what I demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.130.0	Thank you, Counselor. And finally, in this turn of the government, has the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.131.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, congressmen, congressmen. Well, we'll be here again to compare in these appearances to each plenary of the Parliament for re-accounts, to explain and to give a state of affairs about the Covid pandemic to our country in Catalonia. We have the time very well placed in this next year that we will start, therefore, a few weeks from now. I think it's very important to put us on this horizon. We are always talking about prudence, always, throughout the epidemic, trying to do everything there and take all those decisions with rigour, endorsed, obviously, for all scientific experts, but above all according to the epidemiological situation of every moment. And we need to be scrupulous with the measures, with these tough decisions that we've had to take as a government and that we have to take as a society in general, and always with this prudence, with this rigour and also with these measures, but also putting the focus on this future, also in hope. Hope is more clinical knowledge of the Covid than we had. Hope is also more resourceful to the assistance, in infrastructure, in professionals, that we have been putting at the length of these pandemic months. Hope is more resourceful in case and contact tracking systems, more technological tools to help us manage this pandemic, more professionally designed for all these circuits. Hope is more diagnostic, a system of case detection used by the user through primary care, but also an active search system of these cases and also of those who have not presented symptoms, to go looking for the virus in the street, to go looking for the virus in the form of population cracks, in the form of cracks to specific collections, in the form of cracks to vulnerable collections that we want to protect. And hope is also this effort that citizens have made and that citizens and economic and social sectors are doing to stop transmission when the epidemiological situation so requires. And hope is also more preventive. And hope also takes the form of the Covid vaccination. I think that it is essential to reschedule it also today, in this appearance in the Parliament of Catalonia. We will therefore begin this 2021 vaccination strategy on the first stage – generation, fever, march, this first trimester – we will have the ability, with almost 1_million doses coming up, to be able to vaccinate 450-470,000 people, almost 500,000 people, with absolutely prioritized collections, which I share here in this room, all this strategy. Prioritized collections. First of all, people living in residences, clearly vulnerable to this virus obviously because of their health conditions, but above all because of the condition of living in a residence, in a community place, in a common place with shared spaces, where we have applied prevention in order to have clearly different data today than in that first day and to minimize the impact on these most vulnerable people, and, according to vaginas, the doses arrive, extending this vaccination to health professionals, who are those people we need to protect first because they have to take care of the vastness of this pandemic. Health workers, who are our great asset as the system, must be absolutely protected, and in this we also have a lot of responsibility, obviously, from the government. There will be twenty-five teams from the territory, with more than five hundred nurses and also one hundred_five administrative; teams captains, organized, coordinated with professional references in vaccination, because we have experience in our country, in having the experience of so many years of creating vaccination campaigns, some more massive than coming to a good part of the population, as can be the influenza vaccination, but also from other more specific to concrete collections. These teams will receive a specific training in each type of cow, in the first ones that will arrive and that will be able to settle from this first week of generation, with professionals specifically formed for this specific administration, in the preparation of these cows, in the reconstruction of these cows in order to be managed, in organizing the whole system, therefore, in order to arrive with the cows in place, in the residences, in order to be able to immunize the people in situ. It will specifically train the coordinators, nurses and administrative staff, and they are teams that will act within the country. Once again, the infirmaries are again referents of our people, referents of our society, also referents in our system of salvation. In less than twenty-four hours we launched the call so that we could have these five hundred nurses who would deploy the vaccination strategy in our country are almost 2,500 nurses who have targeted this call, surpassing all expectations, all, absolutely all, giving response to this call and this country strategy that supposes this brutal prevention tool that we will have from 2021, which is vaccination. The nurses have been there all along, little by little ICU bed, with the EPIs installed for hours, leaving marks before going home or before going to another place to protect their family members. They've been on primary duty in this case detection. They have also obviously been with other healthcare professionals, at the very end of the cane, following those problems of salvation, those chronic patients that we have not had to follow in the pandemic, ensuring everything there is urgent. There are also all case tracking and contact policies. And they're now in the vaccination strategy. The health professionals who carry months – months – respond to this pandemic with no one. To explain also that vaccination is safe, and this has been thanks to a worldwide effort; that from the 10th generation of the Chinese State the genome has been made available from all over the world to be able, obviously, to start these search groups, with the highest priority, in this case, of many countries of the world, where more than 250 groups have been created that work and produce candidates for cows of different types, as we have been able to get to know. Also here to Catalunya. Here in Catalonia there are many groups of different types of cows, not all of them immediate, that can be done through 2021, but we know that it is very difficult to eradicate a disease and that the Covid will continue with us many years, and, therefore, many vaccinations have taken place in this pandemic..., and we can also declare strategies that are quite different from the Covid. And there are also Catalan companies that announced yesterday that they would produce here, too, one of the cows that are pending authorization. It is important to explain to the people, to the citizenry, that no phase has been skipped in the elaboration of these cows, that all the phases established to carry out medicines us, to carry out the cows, have been donated. And that, therefore, this obtaining in time, in a short time, some cows that normally take many months and years, and that end up being realized, has the effects for this overlap of phases, one to the other, to try to escape all the time, but maintaining the rigour in the execution of these cows, maintaining all the phases. And this also allows us at the last phase of approval, at this stage three, still under investigation, so the pre-authorisation production has already begun. But it won't allow anything that I don't meet with all the safety criteria. Obviously. One more time, we have to show our determination as the country. We need to give a unitary response to the vaccine. We'll need a minimum of 70 percent of the population immunized, and that's why Salut has been working on it for months. The month of August we already bought these 10_million syringes with built-in needle so we could have the security that we could use the vaccination strategy. Our healthcare system in Catalonia has a very high experience in vaccination, and we have been pioneers, too, in various strategies. Each year we administer more than 3 million cows to our people; the largest, the grip, for example, on eight weeks, this year in eight weeks– eight weeks– we have administered 1 million cows, 37 per cent more than the year spent in the same period. And even though the vaccine is close, and as the system is prepared, we know that it will not have an immediate effect of this immunity until it is complete. While, as the Vice-President commented, as the Sàmper Councillor commented, the strategy for the pandemic, as the state in most countries, is very scrupulous with the measures we have taken: hand hygiene, physical distance to prevent transmission, masking, ventilation, reducing social interactions, to the capdavall. The virus is transmitted from person to person, it is transmitted when we find each other, it is transmitted when we give it the possibility, therefore, of being able to move from one person to another. This is what we have to cut, this barrier, which is physical, but it also has a mental, emotional impact on our country. And that's what we're trying to explain, find other ways to tell us what we need to tell us, other ways to find us, closer ways, safer ways. It is essential and will continue to be indispensable for many months. The goal of the country's key vaccination campaign is, in the first place, obviously a strategy of prevention – like all the cows, preventing malalty – but also to reduce the gravity and mortality of this malalty, in addition to reducing the impact of the pandemic not only on the care system but also on the social and economic system. This means that it is a clear country strategy of "all, everything." And from this of" all of us, we've all put a special focus, and it has to be that way – and it has to be that way – in the protection of the people most vulnerable to the Covid. We've focused on this protection, and we've done it in the residential care. In April, with the strategy of mass screening and sectorization of the residences to control the infection and recover safe surroundings at each residence, but also what we did later in this first event, which is this sectoral plan, develop contingency plans for each of the residences, treat a single case as a bud and, obviously, maintain as the main premise that this prevention is the one that can lead us to save lives at the residences. And that's why, scrupulously completing the sectoral plan, which allows us to have stable living groups in the residences – which is going to be the same one that we have equated to the schools, with stable groups – is more essential than ever in the residences. But not all vulnerable people live in residences. We have increased home care and have avoided displacements and risk situations especially in complicated times. But we haven't stayed here either: we've done a stratification of the Catalan population by five levels of risk to Covid, with sociodemographic and morbidity variables. Catalonia today has 1,800,000 people who have a different or much different risk of mortality or heavy complications for Covid. With knowledge – what I said, hope also takes the form of more clinical knowledge respecting the Covid – that we have been acquiring, we have been able to make this stratification to go, above all, preventing and protecting these most vulnerable people. It is vital to deploy these strategies, therefore, of selective protection of the population of greatest risk to reduce its complications and improve its health outcomes, and that is why we have started the population follow-up program that may be at risk of complications and embalm for Covid. The program is based on proactive protection of the population to prevent emmalteixin or being at risk. With ho fem– with ho fem? Personalized care action, in the first place through primary health care, which is this vertebrator, reference of all citizens respect their salvation, with follow-up, information and advice tricks and also information to say to them: "You are a vulnerable person respect the Covid. I don't know if you knew. I like you as a health professional, and I'm telling you that you're going to have to do a lot more than most people do. A visit when necessary. Make it a social value; I believe that this is essential in this fairness that we want to ensure, with a universal system that must come to grips with everything and must also take into account these social inequalities that there may be, for whatever reason, in our country. And also with visits, prioritizing those people who are a year old or older who are not visiting their primary care professionals. It's coming up and it's coming up. And it explains the information, because they are people at risk respect the Covid, for whom certain cases, how they must be able to take care of their salvation, how they must be able to take care of the transmission of the virus. And I think it's an essential protection tool for these very months. With systems of SMS that we have sent, therefore, to our citizenry. More than 4_million SMS, 1_million_i_mig of which go to the special protection object population, with accurate messages. Also with a campaign directed, the communication campaign is: "You can be risky, don't risk it. With six axes: information about the person and his/her surroundings; emotional greeting; physical and mental activity; social relations... Explain the importance of social relations, which must be maintained, despite the fact that they have to do much differently than we do, and I believe that this is important, we are not telling anyone that I am alone, that I am alone, that I am telling people how they can change their way of relating, but that it is very important to continue to relate, to continue accompanying family members and friends, to have a well-known voice to whom they can transmit, therefore, their pores and their anxieties. Emotional greeting – I have already said this –; nutrition; attention to one's own greeting, in the different aspects, not only in the Covid, but also in those aspects that vulnerable fans face the Covid. And this for networks, for communication means, through primary care centers – basic and essential. That said, with this look, with this horizon of 2021 that I wanted to share with all of you, this strategy of vaccination respects the Covid, also explains why the focus is on vulnerable people, why the focus of the whole society has to be on vulnerable people. And I want to reschedule some data. We always interpret – and perhaps it's our mistake, because we notice this – that vulnerable people are those who live in residences and who are more than eighty years old, who have these over-envelopes. And that's it. They're very vulnerable to the virus. They respect mortality. Very, very. But it respects the impact of care, it respects the people who enter our hospitals, it respects the people who today have admissions to ICUs, all of us. These are the ages we have here: from forty years old, from all ages there is at least one person who has joined the ICU, from forty-three years old, from all ages there is at least one person who has joined the ICU. And not a few. The ICU is not just for those people who identify with the most vulnerable. We're all very vulnerable to this virus. And, plus, sometimes without premeditated pathologies and, plus, there's a lot of time. Counselor Sámper noted the importance of ventilation, and as we have also made an effort in this sense to keep it as usual. And why everyone is so clear about why it's important and why it's important to inge these strategies. And this is the ventilation we need, the ventilation of places, the ventilation of spaces to make them safer than the transmission. The ventilation of people intubated to an ICU is what we don't want to see again. It's very hard. It's not just being mad at a machine, it's that you're in a coma, it's that you're not aware. There are people who have been two, three, four_months in an ICU. It's a lot of days and it's a lot of health professionals' efforts at their side in the morning, in the middle, in the evening, in the evening, in the middle, in the evening, in the evening. When we talk about parties, when we talk about Nadal parties, about wanting to find us – and I think it's very important, I think it's a part of crisis management, also in the responsibility of Health, because it forms part of emotional salvation also from all over the country – I also think of health professionals, that it's not that these Nadal parties are also worth it, it's that they also deserve to be able to rest in a few days of retreat. And there will be 365 days a year, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, there will be parties at Nadal, there will be when this new year comes, there will be this vaccination campaign, and they have been there at all times. They deserve this rest, too. And they can't strain this health system any more. That's why we say we don't lower the guard – we don't lower the guard. Although we have the vaccine to play, we need to make a last effort, now that we see the light at the end of the tunnel, now that we have one more tool than we have months to go; now that we have more knowledge, now that we have more professionals, that we have more infrastructure, that we will never lack fans, we will not suffer because we lack fans, but we will suffer for every person who is ventilated to our ICUs. That's the difference. We've prepared ourselves a lot, a lot, and it was our responsibility – it was our responsibility – but obviously we don't have it all, we're in an epidemic. And we must also be aware that the effects of the vaccine tend to be this long term. We'll start with the gene, start as fast as we can, as good as we get these cows, but the effect of the vaccination strategy will not be seen on the first day. As the vice president said, we are very concerned. I am also very concerned about the data personally; the data we have in our country and also the data we see around us. Obviously, we take care of the people who are now sleeping at the primary care centers with symptoms – which have increased –, this percentage of positivity with respect to symptoms, a percentage of positivity that we find in our community screenings has also increased. And I'm very, very worried about that. Like all the government, and as – I'm not sure – all of you. But also for what we are seeing in the rest of European countries. And a lot of eyes, too, huh? , with the measures and decisions to be taken around us. I believe that everyone is making a great effort to find the best balance between this health emergency, social emergency, economic emergence and emotional emergence that our country has, but that it has our surroundings. We defined a plan, a plan of gradual reopening of activities with this soul to find balance. We define exactly the indicators on which we relied, despite the fact that we have always said that we look at them all and that we make a greater effort there, and that we find all the materials that we need. These criteria are clear to move forward, to keep us, to back down, if necessary. And in these moments, therefore, that we do not go well, we will take, if necessary, the best decisions, as always. We were passing a rt of 1.11, today at 1.22. They're big steps that jump. The Rt isn't everything, that's evidence, but the Rt shows us that we'll have the next week, that we'll have the next days. And the data we report, as we always do, are real data over the past three days, and so we can get a clear idea, too, of what you see in these next three days, and this projection more than a week, two weeks seen, and it's to keep growing. Increase Covid's consultations by 15_per_cent to 061, increase the percentage of positivity, increase the positives in symptoms, increase the cases, and this also means that it ends up having repercussions throughout the system. And this marks what I said to the principle: the prudence that we must always keep before this pandemic, always; the rigour of making data go, taking into account what is affecting them. They affect the health system and affect the economic system, they affect society in general in some data that are very complex where we are living this pandemic fatigue also from all over the city, and we are working, above all, at most, strategies to involve civil society in everything. Because they depend on all and all giving the clearest and most truthful information at every moment, also in this Parliament, in these appearances we have every fifteen days. Also allow to do the maximum, allow people to live their lives, allow people to live their lives, but minimizing the risks. They say very clearly why we want him to live his life. We want you to keep your life, and we want you to say, "This is all going to happen, this is going to happen; this message of hope is going to happen, this is going to happen, but these months will not bring anyone to us. And I think we're close to being very clear to everyone. We're reducing risks between all of us. Personal risks, individual risks, which end up being reduced risks to protect the most vulnerable people, to protect, or to remain in the most selfish form of the world, those people we think most without looking any further, or that this is the case, but that we are all still aware that this is what is happening to us, so there is obviously salvation. We deal with the difficulties people face, don't we? , because of this epidemic, how loneliness can be, how pors can be, how anxiety can be... Let's explain to people that in this emotional management – and that's why we have pulled out emotional salvation tools – of the crisis there are aspects that we can feel that are part of the normality that we find ourselves and that everyone will feel around us. And if you have a warning that at some point this, right? , up to the point of not being able to take, of not having energy, of not having a win and of not wanting, therefore, to continue in the same line, so that we are, that also has a system of salvation that is there. And we have a whole team of psychologists on the phone and more, when this is detected, they are obviously quoted to our mental health professionals. And all co-administrations, all co-administrations: all. Obviously, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the first, but also the municipalities of our country, in the measures, in the vigilance of these measures; not vigilance to sanction only, vigilance to explain that it is important for everyone who can complete these measures. And co-responsibility for aid when it affects economic and social sectors. And here, too, is a direct responsibility of the Spanish State, which is the only State – it is the only State – that does not move a saying in helping them. When the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which we have discussed many times here in Parliament, has done everything and will continue to do everything to be on the side of the people and, obviously, of the activities with which the people gain their lives. Moreover, Nadal's holidays are approaching, social interaction is increasing, we are alert and prepared to make the decisions that are needed according to who the evolution of the indicators is. Watch out for what they're doing around us, too, 'cause we're in a connected world. And I take this opportunity to continue to cry out this cry that I am telling the whole people, in this greatest responsibility and prudence in the next few days. We take care of ourselves, we protect ourselves, we need to act together, because we will maintain the conscience, the preparation and the work to keep this 2021 hope different from 2020. We'll keep the cure, especially those most vulnerable people, and obviously, among all of us we have to keep the prudence because this light at the end of the tunnel we're seeing, but we still have to go through, right? These months we have to pass this tunnel, and we will pass it, I am not convinced; I am convinced that we will pass it, but we cannot forget to pass it well, and pass it all and all. We have a small country, but very capable of doing great things. We have always said that in the end the strength is of the people and Parliament is not a clear example. We are representatives of the citizens of this country. The force is people's, and that's an incalculable value. We also help people get all these messages from the logic that today we are living in a pandemic, that in a few months everything will be different, that these months at the end we have, we have each other and we can pass them, in one way or another. We are now at 2020-2021. We have tools to help us not to lose this social contact, although the contact cannot be physical and despite that we have to put physical barriers to a virus. But keep this contact, tell us Nadal's parties what we always want to say, right? That we share, that we love each other and that we want to find each other. But in another way: we take care of ourselves, protect ourselves; we take care of each other deeply. It is essential, in order to do all this, that we maintain a very clear priority. And I believe that the Government of Catalonia is clear about this, that it is our system of salvation. Our system of salvation must continue to be very strong. We have to take care of our professionals, protect our professionals before a pandemic, who have also experienced it, not only have worked it. They have also lived it and also lived it with very hard stories. And in this we can only frame, in the defense of this public system of salvation that we have in our country, which must be the best wishes for 2021. The health system will do its utmost to contribute to these best wishes of 2021 and today it has also wanted to pose, now that the data, more than anything else, are complicated, this message of hope for this 2021. It will be different than 2020, and I also take advantage of and wish all the best wishes for 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.132.0	Thank you, Counselor. Before we continue with the parliamentary groups we will be five minutes away and then we will continue with the interventions of the groups. Thank you. The session is suspected to be two-quarters of a half-and-twelve minutes and consists of three-quarters of a half-and-eight minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.133.0	Well, let's take back the Ple. And, as we have just commented before then, we are doing so with the interventions of parliamentary groups. And in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.134.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech, as is customary in these control interventions on the management of the Government in the pandemic, giving condolences to the relatives and relatives of the last deceased by the Covid. And we also have to send and agree to give messages of support to all those who have not been able to get their jobs back from the Christmas campaign, due to restrictions. Mr Aragonès, advisors Sàmper i Vergés, today we attend your last appearance in full to account for the management of the crisis and we believe that, of course, the panorama is certainly bleak. Experts are warning of a possible growth of the pandemic, of a possible third wave. It increases the risk of resurgence, raises the hospital pressure, triggers the rate of contagion; it is at risk of descalation, it is at risk of Christmas. And Vice-President Aragonès began by saying: « Don't worry. He also said: "We are not an island. But sometimes they try to make us look like it. I believe so too, Mr Aragonès. Catalonia is not an island and Spain is not made up of seventeen islands and, therefore, I think it is a disgrace for the Catalans to have fallen into autonomy where the crisis of the Covid is probably worse being managed, in one of the countries where probably its national leader, Pedro Sánchez, is less assuming the leadership of the struggle throughout Spain against the pandemic. We have a national president who hides behind the seventeen autonomies, we have autonomies who speak – like ours, unfortunately – they are constantly saying things like that even less would have died if we were a state, but when it comes to accounting for the gravity of the situation it turns out that then we are not an island. We want to look like an island, we want to look like..., we compare with Germany, with Italy, with France in the gravity of the situation, now with Great Britain, the United Kingdom, but Spain does not exist. And it is that I believe that we are part of Spain, that in turn it is part of Europe, that we are in a global world and, of course, that we are not an island as you sometimes seem to understand, with serious loss of effectiveness in the fight against the Covid, which is an absolutely global pandemic. We have a bad government of Spain; we have a government of Catalonia, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, bad. Now we're at the gates of the third wave. We are therefore concerned that we are again suffering from the tsunami of mismanagement and government bandages. The Catalans have already made all the sacrifices you have asked of them, they have had the bars and restaurants closed, the shops closed, curfews severe, perimeter confinement and yet we are still at a critical point of the pandemic a few days after Christmas and with much of the population ruined because the Government has not taken care of them. This pandemic is cruel and difficult to manage for all, but the gravity of the pandemic has not served to defuse neither the process nor the partisan battles by seeing who is more independent, as we have also seen in the control session. I have been warning you weeks, in which we have seen the recommendations of the Procicat, widely disseminated by the official channels in these appearances; all right, we must do all the politicians, ask for responsibility, remember that this virus is transmitted from person to person, that we must limit contacts to the maximum. And it's very good that you repeat it over and over again. I believe that all politicians must do this, but it is up to you as a government to do more than that. We have also seen the evil Spanish state blamed for the lack of money as they squander and even embezzle public money that would so well make people vulnerable to the crisis. You during these months had the opportunity to demonstrate another management model than that of the agitator Mr. Torra, who went home supposedly repressed, but, yes, charging his 120,000_euritos. And yet, your management, your management, is far from the progressism and solidarity that your party preaches. Its management has been rather a'save if anyone can. And before you go out and tell me that there's no money because Madrid, because it steals us, like you did or as you exhibited with the posters, I'll tell you that here you presented some budgets that were a boulder and that did not serve to cope with the crisis. I would also remind you that we have tabled amendments to reorient 900_million, 900, superfluous costs that go to chiringuitos, and to fix whether we would have done well for those self-employed people who could not access the aid website. And you, so far as to take the picture in case the elections were ahead of time, so long as you were able to carry in the flap some medal, the one that was, you went ahead, knowing that you were coming, that we were with a pandemic at the gates, that budget dip with the populist recipes of the commons. Result: that we are now bogged down at the gates of Christmas because you chose the wrong path in managing the crisis. One example is: today appeals to responsibility, necessary and shared, as we have said before, but no mention, none – none – to the sectors most affected in the event of new restrictions. If the third wave arrives, we are already seeing that you are going to stumble for the third time with the same stone. Mr Aragonès, the Catalans know more about the crisis of their government, about their poor partisans, than about how you manage the crisis of the Covid. Catalans are not to see how government partners stab themselves on the eve of the elections, but they want solutions. We have seen the contradictions between Mrs Vergés and Mrs Budó, her fights with Tremosa about whether bars and restaurants were opened, her jealousy towards the health management of Madrid and her attacks to make the Madridns cold at taxes. In short, what a disaster of functioning governance, what disaster we have had to endure Catalans in ERTE, in unemployment or who have seen their health threatened by the disastrous management of the health crisis. I remind you that there are 550,000 autonomous communities in Catalonia; one of the most autonomous autonomous communities despite the difficulties that the Government poses to them. And now you, to wash your face, have presented a plan for the self-employed in the discount time, a proposal that is clearly insufficient. And now they have simply announced that they are going to increase the funds, but it follows the problem of origin: that the requirements were very strict both in terms of total revenue and invoicing. Therefore, we propose a contingency plan for self-employed and merchants already, in the face of this third wave, similar to that which is being applied by the Andalusian Board, with aid for the payment of rent and basic supplies to help bars, restaurants, nightlife and gymnasiums: a thousand_two hundred_euro to businesses with uninterrupted activity and four_ thousand to businesses with suspended activity. Because the government's decree that forces you to lower rents so you don't suddenly lose 50_per_cent of income solves nothing, only changes the problem of hands: it changes it from the business to the owner of the premises. And the real solution goes through these aids that we propose to compensate for the losses and not to transfer those of the merchant to the owner of the premises. We also propose, in this contingency plan, a direct emergency injection of two thousand euros to self-employed people and SMEs such as hairdressers, holidaymakers or taxi drivers who have seen their income drop to half, so that they can guarantee up to 75 percent of the previous year's billing. This is the German model of aid which we have already mentioned to you on other occasions, which, unlike this government, does not set limits on income or invoicing, and those who have had losses over the previous year may be eligible for aid. We are not like you; we work for citizens to judge us for our policies and results. And, look, I'm sorry to say this, because we are in Catalonia, but here we have lost 34,200 jobs in the second wave of the pandemic and in Madrid 12,500 have been created, partly thanks to the policies of the Government of Citizens. Another management of the crisis is possible, and the Government, far from favoring the Catalan economy, we understand that it is being a ballast. This agonizing legislature of the crisis of the Covid and of the failure of the process is now over, a legislature in which we have had in front of those who did not know how to manage the Generalitat or its own petty political struggles. From Ciutadans we have worked, I believe, on what really matters; we have fought every day to talk about the pandemic; we have promoted full monographs to talk about health or how to protect the resources of Catalans. And we are, we have said it several times, but I want to insist on it, the group that has put forward the most social proposals throughout the legislature. We have endeavoured to meet the demands of all the affected sectors with which we have met, which are innumerable, and which brought us their anguish, their difficulties and the carelessness they received from the Government. Faced with these decisive weeks and a possible third wave of the pandemic, I do not doubt, Mr Aragonès, that we will make ourselves available to the Government to save, among all, lives and jobs. I hope that the new year will bring the opportunity for a new Government to help the Catalans rise from this cruel crisis. We will always be for the reconstruction and agreement of all Catalans, who deserve much more than they have been receiving from the Government so far, the moment when the legislature ends. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.136.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, one more time, I begin my intervention by recalling the victims of the Covid-19, their families and friends and recognize all the professionals who during these long months fought in the first line against the pandemic. We've all repeated it a long time ago, but I must insist. And I begin, president, to repeat his words: "Let us not go well; let us not go well. And I want to thank them for their clarity and strength. And I'm back to highlighting our support in the fight against the pandemic; I support the Government, and, if I may, Vice President, a special support to the Health Councillor. We're in their hands; I'm counting on us to do the best I can. We are again assessing here the things that are being done, the measures that the Government is taking in the past weeks, but I have seen that this is the last Ple of the legislature, it seems inevitable not only to follow a follow-up, but a balance of the management of the pandemic to extremate alliances of present and future, not so much for the pitfall between parties that are absolutely axisd and, in this case, absolutely counterproductive, but to think that we can do better for the future. And the first thing I wanted to say to you, Vice President, is that we might have to establish an extraordinary follow-up mechanism in this period that we need to carry until the 14th of February. I would like to suggest, once every day, fifteen days, a meeting of the councillor, of her team, with the spokespersons of Salut, because we all can know the evolution of things better and we can contribute from our political position and from our knowledge to the best way of dealing with a situation that, as you said, did not end on 31 December or much less. Three lessons we believe to be extremised from this crisis. First, the Covid-19 has made us more vulnerable, and the economic and social shock that it has caused has put us in evidence, and you too are saying that Catalonia will not be able to get out of this crisis alone, as neither can Spain do in its conjunction without the European Union and stronger international cooperation. And, therefore, cooperation and coordination between governments, institutional loyalty; this is what citizens demand and expect, and more so at the time of facing a health emergency. In this crisis, and I'm sorry to say, I heard myself say more than once, sometimes it seemed that the government's performance, particularly in the first half of the year, was more guided by the political confrontation than by seeking competence and effectiveness in its management. He also took advantage of the fact that the Government of Spain does nothing, which is radically false. Often it seemed that you wanted to fight the fight against the virus the fight against the Spanish government and even the fight between the members of the same government; you seemed more involved in marking differences between you than in solving the difficult problems we face. You yourself had to get up from a coordination meeting because of the leaks that had been produced. Second lesson of the pandemic. Even though some of us have warned this before, the pandemic has made it even more obvious: retailing in essential public services is very important. We are going through a complex health crisis, which leaves an economic and social legacy in all areas and levels. And we're doing it in Spain for health, education and social services. For what it does to salvation, it is necessary to strengthen the public system of salvation and to make it truly universal, equitable and of quality. Already before the pandemic, this was a country priority to ensure its social and territorial cohesion. And let's say again: a salvation pact, it has to be done, and we have to discuss, obviously, the vice president said, about the infra-financing that could be produced and how to reverse it, okay, but let's do it, because here we haven't even started talking about it. And that's what I think, Vice President, we're late for. It is obvious that there has been the effort of the professionals who in the first line have avoided major evils, but they are professionals that we also need to remember that they claim more dialogue, more negotiation and more pacts. During the pandemic, we have had three collections that have called for a vacancy: the RIMs, with certain contractual conditions and precarious wages; the primary care faculty, which, by responsibility, have deconvoked it, but which have arrived exhausted, and the councillor returns to this second session; the health transport workers, who carry sixty-five days of indefinite vacancy and the department neither alone the rep, all folded fruit of a contest made in time of discount for Councillor Boi Ruiz, but which you have not done anything for the better, years against. The crisis is not over. At the gates of Nadal, the data is worrying. And, therefore, we certainly need to call for more responsibility to the citizenry, but also the whole government's entourage and diligence. You, in many moments of this crisis, have acted in an erratic and poorly coordinated manner, with strong dysfunctions; we have seen again these last few days, when the meeting of the Process was delayed and, as a result, the decision-making process was stalled, leaving economic sectors blank without knowing whether or not the workers of the ERTO could or did not believe, not to say, and I am talking about the balance of the whole period, those forty-six days when we did not have secretaries of Public Health. Vice President, the tracking system goes on and on without working, and the trackers say so, not us. And it's very good to do 220,000 weekly tests, but if you don't follow the contacts of the positors, then you'll need it. 061 continues to feel paid in some companies. And they didn't terminate the contract with Ferroser, even though Parliament approved it, you bought it, and when we ask them, as we do today, they don't answer us. The director of the Anti-Fraud Office said: "Most of the government's girl contracts during the pandemic have fallen into large corporations. Well, he also lamented the director of the office that there was no transparency or retention of accounts in all these months. And, therefore – and we ask – where is the audit of actual spending and girl contracts? Education. You know that we believe that the right to education has not been guaranteed under fair conditions; there has been an encouragement and, in certain areas, a weakness in making the student's computer equipment available; social and educational inequalities have been made worse, and therefore the role of the school as an equalizer has been weakened. We need maximum resources, maximum transparency and maximum consensus with the educational community. Uncertain mass, mass improvisation. Today, while we are speaking, a radio already tells us that the beginning of the coming year's course will not be the day predicted, but another, which we have not discussed, and, as we have always said, and we have said so before, I support the decisions of the government, but, man, it could have been taken advantage of this Ple to comment on it. We believe that there has been too much uncertainty and too much improvisation and too much uncoordination. For what it does to the residents, in short, a recent Amnesty International report denounces that Catalonia and the Community of Madrid did not respect the right to salvation, to life and to non-discrimination of the great people for the fact of living in a residential center. Don't tell us. As the reports of Amnesty International are quoted a lot here, so it would also be advisable for this one to keep it very present. Clearly, it's very difficult, because it says the report that it denied health care to people for the only reason that they were big and lived in a residence. It's hard. Pandemic third lesson. We need permanent spaces of dialogue and consensus to make common front to the negative economic consequences of the crisis. You haven't sought consent. Vice-President, we're in our own legislature. I hope you don't have to drive it. And you'll hear me say it with all my heart, but thinking that someone could do it better. But, listen to me, the reactivation pact you didn't look for, and it won't be because the opposition, all of it, with its different accents, didn't ask for it. During these new months we have found ourselves with insufficient measures, which arrive late, which arrive badly, but I also take a setback that fills the vice president. He tells us: "Listen, this is a question of all, all governments, also the Government of Spain. All right, we need to mobilise the maximum resources to deal with the economic and social crisis in the coming year. So I also counted on us in the measure that we can help in this direction. Because it's necessary, because we don't do it for one group or another, one party or another, we do it for the Catalans, we do it for the Catalan society in its conjunction. And, therefore, seriously, it was and is urgent to put a thread to the needle to agree on which are the axes that must vertebrate the reactivation of the country. And the other day, which we had the opportunity..., and you also had a meeting with him, which I understand was profitable, came the president of the Valencian Community. He can exhibit this triple political, institutional and social pact, which has vertebrated a plan of country, of Valencia Country, in this case. We don't have this, and we should have had it. We believe that as a group we have had a responsible and more extensive attitude to make this necessary country effort, and it has surprised me, I must say, and as I have said in private, I also say it in public, that you say that the PSC has set itself up in negativity and only makes opposition, because, finally, I have many criticisms, not just from Mr. Carrizosa, for this policy of self-extensiveness and dialogue for the government, but, finally, when a response from all the bands, always thinks that its position can be balanced. In any case, we believe that the government must lead more and better. You can tell me – quite rightly – that at these times we find ourselves in an exceptional situation, from which it was already an exceptional legislature, because there is no president. But in any case, I believe that the Catalans deserve that there is a government able to govern with political leadership, with effective management, using effectively their skills and resources; a government able to cooperate with other administrations; a government able to make Catalonia move forward, that Catalans are united around shared objectives, that from our point of view are economic recovery, social reconstruction, feminism, ecology, territorial balance, transparency and the quality of institutions. We would like the Government of Catalonia to be a government that makes it possible for Catalonia to become one of the most dynamic and economically most powerful territories in Spain. We believe that Catalonia is on condition and we need the air we breathe to regain strength, prestige and leadership. Catalans and Catalans deserve it and claim it. And, therefore, and if I may, and given that the later intervention will be the answer... but for us, if the Catalans so want, in their own legislature I would agree to change course with an effective government that, if they allow me to express myself, really wanders by work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.138.0	Thank you, President. And good morning again to everyone and everyone. Today you have given some data on the spread of the virus, on the names of infected people, who are all worrying. The vice president said that we are not doing well; we were able to listen and read to health experts, to the secretary of Public Health saying that we would be at the door of what could be the third wave, that is to say that it would not come after Nadal, as we all feared, but that it would come even before, and the general feeling that there is, and I no longer say it only as opposition, but that I am also saying it as a citizen, is that we have – and I feel we have to say this, but I think it is true – the feeling that we have in Catalonia a government, as I say? nyigui-nyogui. I'll explain. You've made a lot of diagnosis, you've re-asked the citizenry for responsibility, you've made many warnings, and all Mr. Iceta has thanked them for their sincerity today and for the words of concern, but they're government, and so I'm the one who's ahead and the one who's ahead. If we are not doing well – if we are not doing well – if we are seeing that in other territories they are already on the third day, why do we not anticipate? If we thought we were at Rt 1,11 and it turns out we've known we're at 1.4, why don't we go ahead? It's going to be tough now, because, if not, within two, three, four days, the situation will still be worse. Therefore, I ask them to move forward, ask them to move forward, because their mission as a government is not only to be honest, but also to be able to move forward to preserve the lives of the greatest number of Catalans and Catalans. We cannot have a government that acts as a function of which is the last pressure or which is the last call; a government that gives bands and which has gone out of credibility throughout the legislature, but mainly also throughout the management of the pandemic, and a government, therefore, that is not always held firm in its decisions when it knows that they are uncertain because they follow unpopular measures. I think it's time, if it comes down to it, to take unpopular measures for the good of the collection. But you seem to have entered an electoral dynamic, which are more focused, so to see if the one on the side is worse than doing his job. And that as the country leaves us in a situation of absolute uncertainty and great vulnerability. And this scener would be troubling under normal conditions, but he's moving from a pandemic to a week and a few days of Nadal, so this situation is still harder. And here I also want to say something else. Unfortunately, this behavior, this captension is not enough for us; it has not surprised us, because, as they say, therefore, of those dusts, these muds. It can't be overscattered to see that throughout the legislature, therefore, the ongoing crises and tensions in the government have prevented you from coming forward by work. We found ourselves with a government that didn't work because it was swallowed up for gesticulation and not for real politics. And, without doubt – and here I also want to be very sincere – without doubting the good intentions of each of the Councillors and Councillors, that I am sure that what they want is the best for the country, among yourselves they have gone opaque. And that's the reality. If there really was a government that didn't really fit opposition more than to sing them to you forty and ask that government. But it's that the opposition has been made between you. There was a government that was more at the service of parties than at the service of the country, and you yourselves have carried the government and its credibility. In general terms, for these three years, it is a matter of the decrees resulting from the management of the pandemic, which would only be lacking, that they have only drawn on those measures or that they have presented the social movements or that they have presented the opposition. And two paradigmatic examples are the Lloggers' Regulation Law or the Oral Health Law. And if these laws have pushed forward he did not follow thanks to the government, many times he has followed despite some attempts of opposition from the government. But focusing on the issue that we are now dealing with, if we focus exclusively on the management of the pandemic, we just need to go out into the street, talk with the veins, with the veins, of all the ideologies, which have voted in very diverse political parties, to recognize that a lot of people have felt helpless during all these months of management of the government pandemic, since it has been extremely doubtful and has arrived late in times. It seems that you have only arrived in time when you were to tell others, generally to the central government, what you were to do. The gangs during the management of the health crisis have followed a constant one. And that's not criticizing to criticize. We understand perfectly well that health measures must be adjusted in the light of the scenes, but here, more than just, what we have seen many times, on many occasions, has been contradicted in the government by whom I spoke. And back to the point that for me it's more important than this intervention: how can it be that the Secretary of Public Health is in the middle of saying that we are probably ahead of a third wave, that we have the Rt at 1.4, that they are increasing the UCI entries, that the number of infected last week has increased by 40_per_cent, that the same vice president said we're not doing well, and, despite all this, I didn't listen to a single intervention today in this Ple that says it's going to happen that the perimeter confinement of this week's head remains commercial? Can anyone explain that to me? Because I don't understand. I don't understand it, and I understand that I don't understand a lot of people in your homes. How can it be? We're going badly, but we're opening up the perimeter of the city to the district. Why? It's just, as much as I think about it and give it back, I can't hear it. And what they do is they leave all the responsibility to the people, a people who carry new ones making hands and hands, who are making a lot of sacrifices, who are making a lot of effort. And instead of being clear, blunt, anticipating and saying where we should go, they say that in three or four days, so, yes, you will already value it, asking for more responsibility, more effort and more sacrifice to the people. I don't understand. And it's still less so if we compare what we're doing here with what we're doing right now in other countries of Europe. Let's look at what's going on in France, let's look at what's going on in Germany. You said it yourself, there are no other territories in the State, other autonomous communities that are already directly on a third page, and here no one understands what you are doing or how we live the Nadals. I ask them, and I know that this will surely be unpopular, I ask them not to relax the restrictions, that there is no commarch perimeter confinement this week, and I ask them, if they fall more restrictions, more restrictions. That's right, restrictions and economic aid – restrictions and economic aid – because, if not, it won't hold up. I'll take care of it. I'll take care of it. This morning my escho companion, David Cid, was asking the vice president of Aragones what I spent. You're justified in the fact that only October can be spent. But it's that comparison with the Valencian country is demolishing – it's demolishing. Therefore, I ask you, if you want more restrictions – which we don't like – then we'll be there too to give support, but above all that neither jobs nor economic sectors fall. Why, if not, where do we live this Nadal? What's the price? To be back after Nadal in more situations than they are now living at Tremp's residence? Clearly... we have thirteen hospitals, fifty-eight people who are already dead, more than 90 percent of the residents, so they've been positive. We have now learned that from the first position to his intervention, on the part of the Administration, nine days have passed. We don't understand it either – they don't understand it either. And I figured they'd be with me with these lifts going through this is absolutely inconceivable. I won't go on commenting on respect, because I wouldn't say it's nice either, but it's not just happening in Tremp; now we're done seeing, too, how there are five residences in a difficult situation in Girona as well. Amnesty International, also commented before Mr.Iceta, two weeks ago drew up a report on the fact that the right to life, salvation and non-discrimination of the great people had been violated. But also this report..., and for me it's the most important part, it's no longer just looking at the past, but it's looking at the present: it's still the protocol that limits the movement of great people to the hospital, it's the rules of visits that decide each residence, and it's still not knowing how to supplement the subject of the lower levels of the staff of the geriatrics. Someone hasn't done the job – someone hasn't done the job. A separate chapter, of course, deserves to be managed by the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. This department, during the entire legislature and also during the management of the pandemic, has been a futile source of hope for Catalans and Catalans; it has been the living example of the way this government is governed, which has been centrifuging responsibilities – I will not go into detailing or remembering the list of deproposals. In Salut, to say that our system of salvation is tense, is stressed would be a euphemism. We have overburdened professionals, without sufficient resources, exhausted and, above all, frightened for this third day. Not to mention the conditions of the people of the SEM, who are making room for two_months ago, in some conditions that are shameful. The reinforcements that you have announced on countless occasions or do not arrive or are insufficient. We don't just have to square the numbers, because they don't specify how many are going to each place. And, as we always say, we have a problem now, but we will have a problem after this third time, for all the attention, for all the interventions that are being postponed. So cough up, I've said it a hundred and fifty million times, and I'll say it again: a national covenant for salvation. You didn't want to do this to me until now; I understand that from then on they won't, but I think it's my responsibility to insist on it because we need it and because, despite all the discrepancies, I am convinced that we all want the best for the country. I'm done. They come in front of almost two months without Parliament, at least in an ordinary way, at a critical moment, in a situation of flowing rope, with a brutal health crisis, with a Nadal per the mig, with the threat – that I no longer know if it is a threat or is here – of a third wave, with an economic and social crisis without the help that is needed, with a European reconstruction fund that must be made decisions that are not only important for the future but for the next two years of Catalonia. We have not yet participated and the Government has not yet gathered to see what is happening with these reconstruction foundations and to see as among all, from collective intelligence, we think that it is the best for Catalonia. So once again, and I'm not tired of insisting on it, I'm counting on us to get out of this situation. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Also with the rest of the political forces, with the social agents, with the economic agents – and I end up, president – because, unlike you many times have said and cregued, you can't alone, and reality is there. It's a very complicated situation. We all need each other, so I'm counting on people and I'm getting out of the can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.140.0	Good morning, all of you. I'm down, and I want to move it like this. Mirin, if you make or fessim a summary of what you wanted to convey, then, the Honourable Councillor of Economy, "a comparison with state; the Honourable Councillor of Interior, "individual responsibility, and the Honourable Councillor of Salvation, "hope. That's the summary. And in our intervention, we would also explain why they have made this intervention and why they are not giving us answers. But I want to get one of the few ideas that we agree with: we're not doing well. Counselor, honourable counsel, do not go well. And his government got worse. And this is one of the reasons we're not doing well. Not the only one, we also want to recognize it – we wouldn't be honest and honest if you said it was the only one – but it's also one of those that says we're not doing well. Look, we don't go well because we have five hundred thousand Catalans and Catalans in a situation of unemployment: 12_percent, and they grow, men; 14_percent, and they grow, women, and in some region that is already in the wake of 20_percent– 19,69, a concrete region that will be about 20_percent in question of days, a few weeks. We are not going well because we have five hundred thousand Catalans with ERTOs, who should say that they are receiving the benefit but that many Catalans and Catalans have not received the benefit, and for the period of August to November 2020 many, let alone all, of the Catalans and Catalans in the Barcelona constituency did not charge anything else. This is not the fault of his government, which I also want to recognize, but of another government, which is that of the Spanish State, which has its competence. And we should also see that we have two-hundred-thousand autonomous Catalans, self-employed and self-employed workers, who today have more expenses for their activity than admissions, and what that means – we are not raising the needs they have, only for their simple activity. And, therefore, a panorama that is absolutely desolating. You have a comparative relationship with other states. So look, we'll compare it, too, and ask you, honourable counselor, to do a deeper analysis than ours or more accurate than ours. Comparison is because we have an expression, in terms of economic crisis, derived from the Covid-19, worse than that of other countries of our entity. Rn? The first, because we have monoculture products: four activities, and two of these are, for one band, tourism and, for another band, construction. When the Covid rises, therefore, of the four activities, two, practically, disappear. The second, because we have a reality of informal economy much above our average of countries of the round, only comparable, unfortunately, with Italy – much higher than the informal economy of Italy, but only comparable to that of Italy – not with other countries of our circle. And, third, because we have a fragmented productive activity. Fragmented in two senses: in the product, for one band, and, for another band, also in the contracting of workers and workers. And that's what brought us to a worse reality from the economic point of view. What will we have – and also comparative with other states from the point of view of social reality – the very worst months that the countries around us have? If you want to compare it to countries around us. So, for one band, we'll have worse – and, certainly, I'll do another morning: worse will be this crisis than the 2008 crisis, and we'll explain why – crisis, for one band, because we have a labor law that is now very easy to take collectively, and what 2008 meant is that going from 8 to 20_percent unemployment is four years, now going roughly in fifteen_months – going from 10 to 18, 19_percent in fifteen_months, not four years. Pitjor, also, because in 2008 we had a reality of public services that covered much more the needs of the popular classes, of the working classes, than the ones we have now, and the reality of retail decades – now we can talk about not a decade, but we can talk about the second decade. And even worse – and this is related to public intervention, it's not a personal issue – because we won't have the family killing that was in 2008. A generation, that of our parents and our seas – for some, of their opinions – that they had a life, from a social point of view, very sacrificed, but that in the final phase of their life they had a matalà and that it meant even and everything that gave response to the family's conjunction with a pension. This happens and it happened in this country and now it won't happen that long. Mirin, with this reality, honourable counselor, we ask you for structural policies, and we have not seen any, because this change, not one. We are seeing palliative policies, but they are not structural, and we would therefore ask for them. And we would also ask that we do not give contradictory messages to the two groups that support the Government and, therefore, that we may not agree, that we do not believe it was confusing in our country. We also ask you, Counselor, to give us an answer that does not follow your second answer, because we are already three years old and, therefore, to give an answer now because after us we can also replicate it, and that does not simply follow, "the CUP of the "no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Counselor Samper, look, I respect very... we respect very much that you have settled in the anecdote. They respect it. I will now also place myself in the anecdote, the anecdote of four Members of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP who start the parliamentary term and the first that they receive is a sanction of their team mosss who consider us organizers of the general wave of October 3. Resources and left without effect, because it was all a lie about his squad moss. An insulted MP at the door of this Parliament for squadron moves. Do you know what it means to be at the door of this Parliament and that the squadron moves insult her? Can I imagine? A congressman physically flushed out to protest on a few stops to defend the right to self-determination. And a deputy, Mr. Counselor – look, I'll do it physically because she went to her city – that they shoot and shoot her. This is what we experienced and we have experienced in the anecdote the deputies and deputies of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, of their Squad Movements. And they're spying on us – and now you want to make us believe that it's a winged move that's spying on the whole independence left and the whole CUP – and that they've already opened shipping. We don't believe it, Counselor, and you know, besides, it's fake. And we want to say it that way, in a straight way. But that doesn't hurt. Well, actually, physically and everything hurt us, some load we had and, obviously, what we got back as a piece of a squad ride. What hurts us is what we saw in the last forty-eight hours, counselor: squadron moves coming out of a portal with an extensible fucking as if there was no end, rape on the bones of a person who was not exercising any violence. Let's see what we saw yesterday: four families with scoundrels who see how they get there – I counted it – gave you vehicles and about a hundred squadron moves. I can correct it. And tell me how much it costs, because I'd say it costs about 30,000 euros. With €30,000 as much as we live in this country, we cover for these four families with ravines. Will you call them individual responsibility to those families who left them behind without a trace? This is his response from the government, with 30,000 euros we gave an alternative housing to families and what do we do is send squadron moves? Is that the answer of this government? Ineligible. They have to rethink everything, everything. You're not eligible. The honourable Counselor, Miri, we have spoken so much, during these three years, of Salut, that I would not know or to begin with. You know that we have tried to be as purposeful as we have been able to be, but the speech can't be expected, because that's a wish thing, and you're a Health Department advisor. What we need are measures, not a script of hope. And at the gates of a third onada, you're in the middle of generating with the vaccine. What are we going to do, this month that we've had since today, 16th of December, until the 15th of January? What are we gonna do, Counselor? It is not placed in a desire for hope and in the vaccine, but in the measures we need now. And we'll tell him again the same thing that we've already asked him three years ago: the assumption, the one they approved, which was lower than in 2010, with two-hundred_thousand more people. And now you're calling attention to something? Lower pressure also for public management of public sanitation as of 2010, with two-hundred_thousand more people. A model of immensely indirect management, of private management, and a reality of precariousness of the workers and the workers you have not solved. I'm not talking about the strain on the toilet, they're tearing it apart! Some of them said they would, and some of them don't put in any measures because they changed. And this is the reality that we have lived through in our sanity. This is exactly this reality. And look, we said to him: in a crisis of salvation, he made available to all Catalans and Catalans all sanitary, public and private media, and they did exactly the opposite: for private management I can guarantee him 43,000 euros, if they come from the ICU, and trade gift to Ferrovial and Ferroser, who today, in this Parliament, no one knows what they are doing or what they are not doing. And if we don't ask, what do they do? Do I know any of the hundred and thirty-five Members of Parliament? Maybe some of your government groups; the rest of you don't know, and we doubt, at all, that they know. And then you're talking about big people's residences. Counsel, great people's residences..., what you told us..., you would have the ability to go – and I won't talk about the businesses that manage it, but the localities – to Santpedor, Sant Feliu, Tremp, and tell them that the alternative is this, the one you drew today? I don't think so. He tried to do it at the door of Parliament, with a collection of families. And it's always nice, besides, that there's a counselor who comes out where she's talking to families, but she's not giving alternatives, and we're talking about life. If we do not talk about life and if we do not seek to protect life, we no longer know well what is being done in this Parliament and what is being done for the government. And then, as far as measures are concerned, on 2nd December the Councillor, the Honourable Councillor, told us: "The economy cannot be paralyzed. So, we think that yes, that there are situations in which the economy can paralyze, because first it is life. For us we are giving them from three months ago a path, which is: teaching, we act there, because it is a focus; public transport, we act there, because it is another focus; residents of great people, it is not that we act, we go there more. No response and no effective alternatives and no reversal of this reality. And there it can act, there it was possible. And, mirin, we will not tire of saying: before the irrationality of capitalism, the anti-capitalists contribute rationality; rationality with four measures: we guarantee habitation, we guarantee minimum entrances, we guarantee salvation. They would be three absolutely fundamental elements. Mirin, what are we saying to him, huh? : admissions, housing, greetings, but for this, obviously, we have to discuss who pays for the crisis. And who pays for the crisis? There are two alternatives: either that the crisis is paid back by the popular classes, the working classes, or that the crisis – and we say it in a very global way – pays for the rich. After this crisis, to the big companies, what did he ask? What have they brought to this crisis? Increase the benefits. After what this crisis is all about, the big tickets that are the most brought? Res. After this crisis, what are the big speculators demanding? Absolutely nothing. And this is the centrality of what the future of our society will be. The crisis, or the big companies, the speculators, and those that have the most tickets, or we pay the working classes. And we, obviously, if institutions are not political, we will do it on the road, as always, through the mobilization of masses. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, after finding that the relationship between Junts for Catalonia and the CUP is going through an idyllic moment... there would be a bit of poetic justice, huh? Because they won well, the truth. Each school listens to its members of the singles, of the legislature, of life, of friendship..., of which it is, right? You're eight years old with this story, and well, I mean, the yield was over. I'm just worried about one thing, and that's what I'm worried about..., and then, yes, Mr. Sàmper, you'll have an opportunity to defend the dignity of the Squad's Body. And I hope you do, and you do it without ambiguity, because things have been said here that are very hard and I think that the Squadron Squadron Squadron, on the part of its highest political leader, must be supported by his dignity at the height of circumstances, which is what I want to move to the heart of my intervention, because I believe that there are certain limits that will not be overcome, as I can imagine. We'll see if you'll do it later, or because of these by the UPC... no, I'll just ask him... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, just that you will have the opportunity to convey a defense of the dignity of the Squad Mosses after the barbarity that has felt here on the body. And I think you'll have this opportunity. Well, I hope so. Entering a little in the matter, and not to repeat some of the questions that had been mentioned in previous appearances. I'll sum up in five messages, some are reflections, of other petitions that I make, Mr. Aragones. The first is: autonomes can't wait any longer. Because now... before it was Nadal's day. Now it's about the end of the year to the beginnings of the year that sees the help, it's what came out in various communication media. What I ask is more administrative agility, the structure is, but the political impulse is missing, because two weeks in the current circumstances can be definitive. They can force a lot of people to shut down permanently, and now the situation is absolutely desperate. First petition, therefore, that you help them vagrant with more administrative agility, because it is absolutely essential. Second question. I would like to make a small appreciation of the consequences that could end up having the absence of a presumption for the year 2021, and that later on in the reply you might mention, Mr Aragonès. Miri, you had the opportunity to call elections in September, perfectly, but for certain questions of political legitimacy, so it was imposed the will of Waterloo – or of Torra, we don't know from whom – and they made a series of electoralism, politics, on the terms of the eventual, at that time, disqualification of Mr. Torra. The case is that this has consequences, of course. I ask you a very specific question: can you guarantee aid without any presupposition for the year 2021 until it is a new government of Catalonia with a new presupposition? And they ask him to tell the truth, because I will be very attentive to his answer, and he remains aware of what he can say. Third question. The current situation is forced by disobedience. It's going to be optional. You prioritized wanted instability and voluntary disobedience in the fight against the pandemic at a decisive moment. I insist, the consequences are now seen. You had the opportunity – I insist – to make choices, to impose yourself and to stop Torra's will at that time, and clearly, who are now the most obvious consequences? The first is that we have, in the worst moment and the most difficult, a government in function that still limits itself more functions, and also voluntarily. And that was your decision, Mr. Aragones, and your group. Self-limiting even more at the worst moment. After, therefore, some assurances that I can share, that transferred to the city, but you yourself have self-limiting. Uncertainty, therefore, in functions, uncertainty in resources, political uncertainty at all levels. Fourth consideration, another petition. Aviat the Permanent Diputation will replace this plenary at the time of, finally, realising the control of the Government. I'm asking you that today is five scenarios planned. If I can't do it today, they will do it quickly, because obviously, the government's control will continue to be necessary, especially in the event that the elections begin, that today, after his intervention, I haven't been in complete peace. I don't know exactly what's going to happen. I'm starting to get the feeling they want to catch up, but I don't know either. It's just an intuition. And the fifth consideration and later, also related. If I have asked him directly before whether they can guarantee that they have money for aid without the presupposition of the year 2021, in the case that the elections are on the 14th of February, that there would then be some time to make government and then approve another presupposition. What if the elections are called? Is there really gonna be money for all this? Because, well, I'd say no. And I'd like a clear answer, because the panorama that's coming over us is very delicate depending on how you put it all that, I insist, is your responsibility. You have decided this scene of instability, the scene of disobedience, and despite constantly saying that the pandemic was a priority, at a decisive moment, you have left it to Mr. Torra and Waterloo, and this always ends up having consequences. Before we saw them in the, finally, in the description of the task of the movements that took place by the CUP, which is, in short, the type of policy that presided over this mandate and the previous, and which is dismembering, disarticulating the Catalan civil society, the civil unit and all folded. In Fi, I expect your answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.144.0	Good morning, President. Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, and today, too, therefore, to all the citizens who are following us, because I believe that these debates are of concern to everyone and now more than ever. It's the last appearance we have in this legislature; a legislature this week is running out. The government, however, will continue to act, in effect, a few more weeks. Go ahead with a thank you from the Republic Group for this new exhibition of public account retentions. If I'm not mistaken, it's the Government's fourth appearance, be with the Vice President's figures and the Government's spokesman, like alternates with the Health Councillor and the Interior Councillor. Let us also say this for this simple observation of many parliamentary groups of this perhaps lack of transparency. If we analyze objective data, we carry four full consequences. In this House we have discussed a monogram on residences, with a committee that has complemented, too, all this knowledge of how this pandemic has been carried out, while a specific plate of Covid and all those who have been suggested by the different parliamentary groups. Therefore, please again this ease of transparency. Hey. God is there, isn't he? I think if we stop looking at what happened six months ago, the list is long. We've probably heard everything that can get better here, and this government has never given up on this. I believe that this government, if anything has done, has taken everything that was not accurate, above all to re-analyze, because the information it had in March is not the one that was held in May and is not the one that was held in August, and I believe that here we have found a flexible government, that it analyzes and that it is good to re-adjust when it comes; that it has used all – all – the media in its abyss. We are accustomed, sometimes, to feel certain demagogic or to remember only those small inputs that are sometimes mediatic but that may not be practical or that may not be rigorous with politics. And it's this fantasy policy, this magic policy, isn't it? Sometimes, even so, we could be distressed and say, those gurus, right? That seems to have perfect potions. Let them always analyse from, however, consummated fetuses. They always look at it from the point of view that I already said, and what we do have is evidence that there is no magic formula. No country has found it, and we've all played this game. It's a global pandemic, it's a pandemic that has faced many different futures. Perhaps we should, by taking the witness who gave us Councilman Sàmper, not learn, right? , of certain countries of Eastern culture that are probably structured with another way of hearing collectivity, and this would also make us collect a little humility in this sense. But many more..., Slovakia, which first bet, right? For some massive texts to detect... he ended up with total confinement. The same with Germany. So, these perfect potions that sometimes someone puts on the table, mm! They should have us suspended. I come from the world of sports, many times, read the chronicles when the game has already been played, when you don't have to decide what tactics you have to set up, for which players you have to bet and be brave, and you have the decision and responsibility to choose, it's very different that you sit on the couch, analyze the game as it went and from here propose solutions. Because at the time, the coach also knows. At that time I would also do an accurate analysis of what is to be done and what is not to be done. She gave us the counselor today, when I think she showed us, right? , the human part of this Covid, set us an example what happens to people who are to ICUs. I think there's been a moment of silence among all of us and that everyone has looked up. What do you mean, get out of an ICU? I think we need to take a step further, advise, in this sense, because when the people come out of the UCI we see applause, and at that moment I think we also need to recognize that there is no end to the path of the evils of Covid. There's survival, survive the Covid, but those applause should be very clear that it's the beginning of a much harder new path. Sometimes it's four_months at the Guttmann Institute, because, really, if you wear three_months without mobilising your body, you have to learn all about it again: to walk, to eat; so, that people also be aware that when you quit the ICU, but probably start one of the toughest paths. Also the balance, she advises, that I believe at this time you have always had a lot and a lot of pale: to transmit to the citizenry that what is being done is not just facing the pandemic of the Covid, but that our health system can continue with its ordinary activity. There are two potentials that need to be balanced: cancer screening, oncological attention, or any detection of maladies must continue, it must continue in force and with all this machinery. Therefore, we must show the citizenry that we are not only fighting to attack the pandemic, we are fighting to protect the health system, because all the rest of the citizenry that by luck could not be affected by the Covid we have access to the health system with that level of quality that we know normally represents us. It's true that data is not good again, but it's true that we analyze and analyze it bravely, as you have done here today. Covid has put his life on hold, and we have to do everything we can to save him, to do everything we can and to stay in our hands. But he's also put on bail and live decently for a lot of people in the morning. And this is the binomial that complicates all our decisions, because, as I said before, the magic and surgical decisions aren't there. This binomial, health and economy, it's unfair and it's painful. Balance is what's always looking for and we won't get tired of repeating it. And here, social co-responsibility has a very important key, because in the end this is a struggle among all. Did Congresswoman Albiach comment on us: perimeter confinement, district confinement? In the end it is to be responsible and that each and every one of its surroundings disappears as much as they can. Why may it seem small to us, the degree of smile, but from that individual responsibility to analyze "where will I go to spend the end of the week and with whom? I understand that this responsibility is shared, and shared by everyone. The virus is not defeated, and if we are not careful every day, if we are not responsible in the spaces of freedom and openness, we have already seen that we are going back. And that could be defined, which is why they take action, not to return to that total confinement that so much harm has done to us. And we have to avoid each other. And we don't have to be aware, the vice president told us, that we don't have to get used to a Covid. I think the first wave was very visual. Despite what he implied, what he showed us was that we lacked material. It's true that we saw the hospitals... and as everyone was talking about it, as everyone was masking, as the corporate fabric invented breathers. And we saw how, maybe, he was going with a scumbag. What happened? We haven't seen this second one. The data are the same or even higher, but these images are not there. Because in two months we have reinvented ourselves. He has all the necessary materials, all the equipment, he has reinvented hospitals, he has not made us, he has strengthened health care, he has made cracks; those images are not there. Even so, this may be a danger, because those images, visually, contrasted us with a reality we saw. It's probably a reality we're talking about right now, but maybe it's a little more invisible to us. So it's in our hands. We've done it and we've done it in other areas. We saw it with the school. In August everyone said to us: "It will be impossible. "The school won't work. « At the end of fifteen days it will be closed. I don't. School worked. And until we have data, now, that only one per cent of the students is confined, the lowest xifra of September 23, so we can do it. Also, also, attention with safe spaces. There are spaces that take many and many measures and the incidence is very low – very low – as we are talking about now, '1_per_cent. A safe space for a hundred is not there, it's when we put all those tools in place so they're safe, and all that, attention, there's probably a minimum risk and a minimum risk. She was talking to us, too, the counselor, wasn't she? ...this consciousness of 7th and 8th of December, which is true, so, we have some images of..., seemed like we were all going to explore the world. But it's that exploring the world, you know, it's not bad either. Depends on how we do it. Can you see the family? Probably. Can we make a Nadal_dinar in a warm environment without opening windows and all without masks? Probably not. But maybe we can go for a walk in a space free with the masked inn and distance, with the whole family? Maybe so. So, between one end and the other, there are many answers. So, between total confinement and very strict measures... it's up to us as we face it. What's true is that it's going to be a different Nadal, but I think the Catalans, don't they? We've faced very difficult times. And we've seen it in other situations, which we've been imagining, we've been as creative as we were on the first day. The creativity that the Catalan society will demonstrate. But it's true, it has to be transparent. And thank this government that's been transparent. It was good to put the figures on the table; to approach a communication, which is not simple, because it makes you weaker, because it is much easier for attacks to arrive for this transfer, and to treat people as adults. We demand this treatment as adults. Therefore, it is up to us to correspond in this line. I used to give them away, huh? There have been many sacrifices that have been made, very tough measures that, moreover, have called into question those sectors that most promote social interaction, such as the world of sport, the restaurateurs, the professionals of culture, the firaries. There are so many people... Therefore, we value this effort that we have made, continue with one more step, reinvent and follow. And we all take on, we take on all responsibilities. We come out here to ask for those direct aids or to question if there were many or few, but there were: help the autonomies there were, it was recapitulated of what did not work and the impact of the nine aids was very high. Where are those direct helpers from the State, the one who does have the full box and is the box of everyone? We're there, but we're all there. We don't always look at who it's from when it's not the same. We're all responsible for a lot of management levels here. Let's all respond, because then yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.145.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.146.0	...that we will have the solution in our abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.148.0	Good morning. Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, we begin this intervention from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia first, therefore, giving a scale and record to the victims, since we are at this last parliamentary session; to the relatives, also to wish them recovery, but also to recognize the pocket of the health services, of the health personnel, also of the residents and of other staff, eh? , which are carrying out pandemic-related tasks. Also put in value, as did Congresswoman Caula, whose transparency task is making this Government of the Generality that is appearing. And I think, therefore, if we believe in this parliamentary institution, if we believe in the Parliament of Catalonia, then I believe that we must also put this on the table. In relation to what is the situation respect fifteen days ago, fifteen days ago our parliamentary group, Mr Batet, refers to the need to continue with responsibility and not to lower the guard. And fifteen days later we ratify with this need not to lower the guard, this need for responsibility and, therefore, effectively, the data are worrying. Unfortunately, we're after analyzing the data and the speech, aren't we? The intervention we had planned didn't change much, because we already wanted to come in an exercise, I also think of planning and anticipating. And, therefore, my speech has not changed in interventions to the communication media that may have been made yesterday or today. Why? So because the Rt, the risk of resurgence or the number of infections, the ICU entries, therefore, actually give us a tendency to rise and indicate the need to take action. And in this action for this trend change, I remember this weekend Dr. Argimon making an article in La Vanguàrdia, who explained to us how we had to evaluate the Rt and is also making public the methodological changes of the Rt assessment. So, effectively, we believe that action will be taken and that the Junts for Catalonia Parliamentary Group will be on its side. I could also put in value the difficulty of what we are living. It's a year ago we were 135 Members of this Parliament and now, in our vocabulary, Rts, making PCRs, confinements, perimeter locks, distance, masking, ventilation..., all this forms part of our reality in less than a year. And, therefore, it denotes a very big change in our lives and in the exercise of our rights and freedoms. In fact, we are at the gates of a Nadal, of a Nadal that will be different, but I also believe that this Nadal is different from the following. This Nadal will be different, but the next one will also be different from the Nadal we'll be living this year. Why? Because we'll have more prediction elements, more treatment elements, and more cows. So, when we say that this Nadal has to be made an effort, it's because we are aware that the Nadal of the next year there are very different elements on the table. And that, Mr Vidal Aragonese, is not a matter of hope, and I want to defend Constellera Vergés, but it is a question of knowledge and, therefore, we have elements on the hope table that are the fruit of research and knowledge and, therefore, it is justified and motivated and I believe that we also need to put it in value. It's also a shared responsibility. These days we've known all this neologism about co-responsibility and co-responsibility in the end is shared responsibility. We defend and want a model of Catalonia with a mature society and this mature society is that society, those citizens who exercise their responsibilities and, at this time, exercising responsibility is acting to minimize social interaction, minimizing mobility. And we're also very aware of tiredness. We carry many months of pandemic and, therefore, there is a fatigue in society, because family members have not seen each other, because friends have not seen each other, because there have been lost family members, lost friends, because work places have been lost, because the social and economic conditions of a large part of our city have been affected and transferred to us. And so, in these moments, when we ask for hope and say that we need an effort in this Nadal is because in this tiredness we see elements, the fruit of knowledge, of research, that will allow us to know that at the end of the day there will be a vaccination plan for the generality of Catalonia and for the Spanish government. On the other hand, for this reason, we also believe that this responsibility that we call on society, we also have to call on the public administration, the public authorities. But before entering it, he also wanted to reflect, because I think that it is not very valuable that during all this time, these months of pandemic, the affected sectors have made a great effort to adapt to the better, the needy, the instructions by the public authorities to be able to innovate, transform, adapt, adopt protocols to adapt their product or serve the needs and the indications that on the part of the governments of the Generality and the governments, other governments, state, therefore, gave to the affected sectors so that they could have their own open activity. And, therefore, this effort, which I believe is also an example of responsibility for Catalonia's product fabric, we need to put it in value, because Catalonia is a country where the culture of effort and work is renewed before difficulties. And so, in front of the affected sectors, when you talk to them and they explain how they have transformed the business, the product, the service, I think we also need to put it into value. And he also wanted to make a specific consideration with respect to residences. During these months, the sensitivities for the residents, for the large people sector, I think it has come to light and, therefore, we also want to ask the government for the highest priority – I know there are many fears about the table – but the highest priority before successes like that of Tremp. And they'll keep us side by side in the next few days before the government's decision-making, and they'll go back to implementing teletreball in a more demanding way, with measures in the health field and with measures in the field of education, we'll be there, but we'll ask them above all what they're doing, anticipation and courage in the decision-making. The pandemic has led to the limitation of our human rights. Why? Because we have this binomial between economy and health, and I listen attentively to parliamentary groups who are opposed. Many times they give me little hope, some say, because when I listen to them, more often than not a lot..., do not attack, but let's say a little build up, you, these months that I listened to them attentively – and not all, because there are many –, it is true that when action is taken, you ask the Government of the Generality for restrictive measures, direct, hard, restrictive measures. And then when these measures are taken, they tell the Government of the Generality that the aid is insufficient to try to help all these affected factors. And, therefore, from this point of view, it is a certain, let us say, easy to say that it is from the opposition to say: "No, no, I take very hard measures and, when they have taken them, there are insufficient aids that the Government of the Generality takes. And, therefore, here I believe that the difficulty of the Government of the Generality is over the table and I believe that at this time, therefore, being a public servant and being ahead and having political responsibilities is not easy people. And, moreover, Mrs Albiach, especially me, when she said that "they have a government of nigui-nyogui, man, so we have a president who anticipated and exercised a leadership with the pandemic, who recognized him as a lot of people who didn't vote him, a lot of people who didn't vote him, who anticipated the decision-making and, therefore, said that we have a government of nigui-nyogui when the president of the Generality was unjustly, unjustly disqualified, and we started the legislature with a 155. Last week we found the news that the financial intervention of 155 rose, when I thought that this was good, if it stopped applying 155 this was already to be solved, but no. I think it's also a bit of a lack of repression culture that we've lived, lived and that we'll barely live. We live, because the judiciary – the high judiciary, which I like to distinguish high judiciary from that which it is not – does not control or control it. So, you're critical, but a "nyigh-nyogy government" I don't think it would be the safest term, considering how we finish the legislature. And, besides, Dr. Argimon, who I think is a person recognized for his ability, did an interview and quoted: "We are not a country, let us say, poor, but we are not a rich and Spanish country, neither. I said: "If we can pay Helps wouldn't be open now or before. And, therefore, before the public officials, the public authorities, this dual economy/business, and I think that's what I'm talking about on behalf of all the advisors and advisors – it's very difficult at these times. Therefore, we demand responsibility for the citizenry, we demand responsibility for the government. And responsibility to the government is, above all, good governance, which I believe is what we have to demand at this point in time from the government of the generality. And I am aware that the Government of the Generality has limitations, limitations the fruits of this autonomous state that the citizens of Catalonia are asking us for state aid and we cannot offer them, and also limitations that come from the Spanish Government. Why would I also like to see the Socialist and Common Party, in this case, what responsibility the Spanish Government has, what direct help, what action is being taken, where is Mr. Pedro Sánchez, the President? Therefore, with all the legitimate criticisms that may exist on the part of the Government of the Generality, I believe that anticipation and leadership has been and continues to be felt. In fact, I remember the mockery of President Torra when he urged – we were sitting here, weren't we? – that we wear masks, and then it turns out that the mockers have converted, throughout the Spanish State, that masks were obligatory, or, for example, President Joe Biden, last week, also one of his first measures was that citizens of the United States also wear masks. Therefore, I think it's all right to say it and recognize the errors – which there can be – and the margin of improvement that always exists in the exercise of public office, in the public service, but also to recognize what has been done well. And so is the sense of state: we now believe that we will need to take these measures on behalf of the Government of the Generality, which we will do... we will support this connection. The Massive Texts: We defend and defend that the pharmacies must have a more important role. We believe that the pharmacies should be able to carry out these ancient texts and we believe that it can also be an element to take into account. And I say to them: before the proper months, proper days, any innovative measure, transformative, pilot plan, program that learns, we will give it support. I can get out better or worse, because at this point and not the scientists... everyone, right? ; we'd take a few scientists... – I always say, these days – the lawyers..., you'll take two lawyers and you'll think the same; the economists, you'll think the same, you'll think the same. And now we've also found ourselves with evidence..., and when we talk about the scientific field, so, evidences, that very often scientists neither..., scientists speak and think absolutely the same. And what do I come up with? So we'll give it support. We will support all those measures because we believe that this moment needs to be felt, felt of the moment and help the citizenry. Because that's to preserve the interest of the country, the interest of the citizenry and not the electoral interests, and I think that's where we need to position ourselves. And to require the Spanish Government to act, not to disappear, to adopt direct measures, they do have the capacity, they do have the capacity to act, they are a government, they are a state, and, therefore, we say they are present. So we'll give it support. And finally, a prec, a prec for the next parliamentary term: we need more institutional strengthening. This country has the capacity to strengthen institutions, to fight repression, to exercise rights and freedoms. And here, in institutional fortitude and country interest, there will always be Junts for Catalonia and its deputies and deputies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. One time the representatives of the groups and sub-groups have spoken, there is a new one for the Government. We'll do it in the same order as before. Therefore, has the word, in the first place, the councillor Sàmper. Forward. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.150.0	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, I have not yet calculated the time, please, because I want to ask you a question of order, which is that given my parliamentary inexperience, only three months, I would like to know if in a debate with a concrete name it is possible to introduce any other types of questions, parliamentary obviously, but that they have nothing to do with the debate, because I understand that there is a lack of consistency. As I don't know, I'd like to know, not so much for now but for the future, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.151.0	Counselor, with various titles of different debates, different interventions, different parliamentary initiatives, have come up with many things now and historically, so to speak. And there has always been a very lax criterion, both for what it does to the interventions of parliamentary groups and for what it does to the interventions of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.152.0	Perfect. Thank you very much, President. So, president, advisors..., vice president, pardon, advisors, deputies, deputies. Look, I'd like to start with where Congresswoman Geis ended up, who mentioned the complexity of the moment and who mentioned the difficulties that even all the experts in the most relevant subject that is now, the health care worker, can have different opinions. And what Congresswoman Geis said, then, would not be more correlated with so many criteria that we see applying to the whole world respect how to deal with this pandemic. Today we have spoken here on various occasions in Germany, with the intention of remembering that they have taken some terribly restrictive measures. And it doesn't happen here it was very much spoken of, from Madrid. You will remember, you will remember that when it was intended to introduce in the government's report the speech of the economic and health binomial, everyone talked to us about Madrid. And some who spoke very happily that in Madrid, kept it all open, didn't have indexes, today they talk to us about Germany. You're gonna find this, huh? This happened here less than three weeks ago. Madrid as an example, and the same ones who defended the example of Madrid, the criteria of Madrid, the form of iron of Madrid, today they tell us that we emmirald with Germany. So, look, you yourselves, parliamentary groups, free to think of everything you consider opportune, just missing, have given us the answer that this is not difficult, no, this is difficult. And it's not just difficult, but there's no answer, only one answer, to how to deal with the pandemic. Or is it that someone who said Madrid was the example to follow now will say it's not like that? What should I say, because now he's setting the example of Germany. Or is it that someone will discuss, for example, that the Japanese model is not a model to follow as well? So, very complex. And so, when things are so complicated, man, you know it's hard to use terms, adjectives, that pretend to trivialize the situation. « Nyigui-nyogui, Mrs. Albiach, perhaps was not the most appropriate. I already understand him, his speech, I understand him. But, just's, you go today with a speech..., here, you, Mrs. Albiach, with whom you say to us: "tank, take urgent action, immediately, this week's end that there is no more regional perimeter lock, do it today, tell it today, not tomorrow, do not lose a day. And, on the other hand, he sees us today at the CUP and gives us a speech where the economic criteria are the most relevant; he has devoted a few minutes of his vehemently speaking to the economic issue. Okay, that's the complexity. You have made a speech, today the CUP, an extreme part of the parliamentary arch – an extreme part of the parliamentary arch – which, for different paths, goes up to the same place as that which would make the total controlling part of the parliamentary arch. That is to say, the discourse of the economic issue, on the part of the economic binomial..., on the part of the economic binomial, which today made the UPC could also do, for example, the People's Party or Ciutadans, which is that we do not want to increase the occupation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I, Mr Aragonès, would ask you – I would ask you – to be equally respectful that I have been with your speech, which practically reached your hand to my face. Therefore, they ask them this: respect and education. And then, in the end, I'll talk about your speech, I don't doubt it. But this is the complexity we have. And, therefore, man, let's not banalize it, that it's not less people than what's going on. Don't banalize her. She also told the Republican MP that this complexity has been appreciated in the government and that the measures taken take account of this complexity. And I explained it in my first intervention: we have questions that say that people are so much more concerned than they are about sanitation for economic consequences. And I don't think it's right that he came here to trivialize this situation. Have there been any moments of controversy between the two political groups forming the government? Of course it is, we have not denied it; of course it is. Are there times when we've seen it differently? Of course I do. Neither did we deny it, nor did the Vice-President deny it, nor did the Councillor of Verges deny it. And that's bad? Does this have to be brought here to trivialize it and to say that we are only conducting electoral battles? No, because it's not like that. We're wrong or wrong, I don't know. They'll say it after the results, the city will say it, you'll say it's critical, but when we discuss it, it's because we really think we need to get to a point of balance that we think is the best. And when we make a decision, we take it all in a solid way, and it will be uncertain or erroneous, this is reality. Look, there have been interventions of pure opposition, as it should be. I certainly did not like terminology, but, well, here we are and we must accept any, only I would miss it too. And there have been populist interventions. And I want to highlight it. Mr. Carrizosa, you really have a great dialectic that I admire – I am saying it overtly – because it is able to do something very difficult, that is that any social problem in Catalonia makes you return to the process. It's like, whatever, it's all coming back to the process. I ask you – I ask you – that the final part of your speech that you have just said and we will be helping in what you need to do in the whole speech, because this is very serious and because here you don't talk about Waterloo or about internal disputes; here you talk about how we can find the best solutions to face this pandemic, which is not easy either here or here in Germany or in Holland or in France or in Madrid. An example of this is that you don't do meso. And look, Mr. Aragonese, there's enough, I'm telling you clearly, there's enough. You have a do, which is the domain of social networks. No one dominates them like you, no one. And, in fact, you have taken over, with your numerical representation in this Parliament, so, with that phrase that they so much like to repeat, of "send a president to the paper of history, with his representation. And you're the bosses of creating what's not true. And now that you're here today... – and that's why I was asking you, Mr. President – about congruences, about talking about things you have nothing to do with the pandemic, I'll answer what you said. You prevented yesterday, literally prevented it from being able to do mediation tasks with the denunciation to which you referred. You stopped it. There was a mediation team from the first hour of the morning, they were doing mediation tasks between what is the judicial committee and the people affected by the denunciation. They achieved this mediation with one view that, free and spontaneously, decided that it would go away, and independently – and I'm not going in there now because we're not talking about denials – whether or not there was a housing offer for the others, you prevented yesterday or groups of denials with you, groups directly related to you that are producing this mediation. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this very week I acquired the firm commitment, which I repeat here before all of you, that public intervention in the denunciations, and not only now in the pandemic era, but forever, has to make a transfer from public order to media. In this denunciation given by the Aragonese Lord, as I was strongly advised now, we sent him a mediate effect, only, and we sent him a civil security effect, only. That's to say, because we understand each other, squadron moves with shirt, hat and more. And when this mediation happened, compromised by this counselor, it stopped this mediation. Therefore, it must be you who explain, if it is not the more that you have always provoked, for you, the intervention of squad movements, because as we are in elections it is obvious that you have this target that you cannot lose now; if in case, after the 14th of February. Explain this, because I explain it here today and I assure you that I will explain it wherever I go. And one thing, Mr. Aragones, according to the topic that you have brought here on more than one occasion, accusations... [[Funnel veils]] , the charges. Remember, don't you? All right. So too sectors very clean to you have prevented fifteen days ago that a trial is suspended – that a trial is suspended – Mr. Aragonese, and that it is not possible to do what has already been done with procedures that there will be this week. That's the reality. Therefore, one thing is what Mrs. Maria Servent says when she talks to me, which is honest, and I am very clear – although she is now moving her head as she says she is – and another is that sectors very close to you, Mr. Aragonese – very close to you – have an interest in keeping certain electoral targets so that we can agree. It's good to change reality, it's good to say lies, and let's say things for your name: you prevented mediation yesterday, and therefore – and therefore – you must assume this responsibility. [[Some applause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.153.0	It's the greeting counselor's turn now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.154.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, continuing with an appearance, a appearance referring to this network, explain, explain to us in Parliament, to the house of the people, explain to us, to the capdavall, to the citizenry respect the epidemic of the Covid and respect all those things and reptes that we must also share in this Parliament. I will try to put a little order, but also on concrete issues that have emerged from different parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, it seems to me that your vagina putting the focus on helping them, and, really, as the Health Counselor does not untie people – not untie people – our pocket and our responsibility, because we strongly share in a Government..., from the scope of helping them. And how did you start saying that we're not an island and that you didn't tell them and so, Spain, one, no? , and... – I don't know how they say it – and not fifty-one..., but I didn't say them, obviously, I also want to reschedule it. That is to say, I want to point it out; it is here, too, where we in the month of March said: "If people are to confine themselves to home, and therefore cannot even go to work – that is something that they have not prevented in their majority of cases in this second case – "as at least they must not suffer because of what they have to pay as a result of not being able to work. If he doesn't come in, he won't pay. If we make a stop, we try to put all the tools in it to make it possible. I do not know exactly what you have done in the communities where you participate in some government, but I do know the health part of the communities where you participate in the government, like, for example, Madrid; like, for example, Castella and Lleó, who came here to pay a compliment to his health counselor – certainly, very good professional, as far as she is concerned – but who has found himself precisely with the same difficulties with which we have found ourselves and with which we have found ourselves a good part of the countries, with some also very raw, with a very high mortality rate. And I can tell you how we've saved our lives, on the line of which there are many groups here: putting all the tools we have in our midst, all of them, from one side and the other. On the health side: 2,473 tests that make Catalonia per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. Do you know how many in Madrid? 1.990 – there is a lot of difference, a lot. How many in Castella and Lleó? 1,129. How many in France? 880. To set an example. He also obviously referred to everything we do in the field of Health, but also to what we do and what we have given an answer when we have to take action to get away..., to society as a whole, which affects society as a whole and affects economic activities, social activities..., we have always accompanied, we have given our hand to leave no one behind, with all the limitations that there can be – with all the limitations that there can be. But, as far as I know, the autonomous quotas of this country, of the thousands of autonomous ones of this country, pay them to a place that is said to be « Treasury of Social Security, which is located in Madrid, which depends on the Spanish Government, which has a band assumption and which, therefore, are also absolutely responsible for this. And what have they done while we give help to the local people? Push the share of autonomes. And if they've done some sort of gesture, it's to put up with the quotas in a month, because they're gonna charge them later – because they're gonna charge them later. And this is a reality that we have also found ourselves with our responsibilities to the Government of Catalonia, and I want to leave it that way, of course. Therefore, we work with the whole context every day, because yes, other groups have also put it on the table; I like that, for example, the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, so, above all, it starts by marking in this « we are not well, the 500,000 people who are unemployed, marking the 500,000 Catalans who are in ERTO and that, certainly, also the cost of collecting, marking the 200,000 autonomes, because, for me, this is also salvation; for me, this also has to see with the pandemic. That's what I'm worried about, that government's taking care of us, too. This is the complexity. And in reference to the same, of the competitions of the State. And you were calling for structural policies. And what is it that we have done, if not: now, give response to the Covid, now that we are not only structural policies to strengthen the health system but also transformers. And from here he sees, therefore, obviously, all the reinforcement of the primary school, of the policies of public salvation that I can go through degreasing. And I'm delighted, Congressman, I'm delighted, sincerely, that you've stayed with today's message as well. And I tied it up, this hope, with everything that we've been able to achieve. And I started saying: hope begins in the most knowledge of the Covid, which we have. It continues with the resources that we have strengthened – care, infrastructure, professional –, absolutely basic; in the resources in our system of follow-up of cases and contacts, that we have to create of zero– of zero–, and that in a few months we have a system that is following thousands of people day after day, thousands of people– thousands of people–, and is following and taking care of their state of health, is taking care of these islands, the quarantines. And we always say that we need help, the complicity of the local administration to make it possible, with community interventions, to leave no one behind, because when we are given to someone you cannot go to work, you must stay home, you must make this quarantine, and they obviously need to accompany them, these people – obviously we need to accompany them. And hope is more diagnostic, it's all this evidence that we've constantly started, that we've always been first and never stopped doing. But also the hope is the effort of the citizenry; the effort of the citizenry, which is doing and which is seeing how we could face a very different second wave that this first, with the compromise that we all had of not making a total, absolute, confinement of the people at home, that I want to remember that we killed because the children can go back an hour in the street! – one hour in the street – accompanied by one of your parents or guardians, or the accompanying person. We killed each other to make this possible in those early days. And we have faced this second wave without obviously collapsing the system of salvation, much more prepared, but also taking into account that people need to live, and we have not put up with the entire productive sector of our country, we have not yet stopped small trade, never, in this second wave, and obviously we have compromised ourselves by opening the schools on September 14th, in this school calendar, we have compromised ourselves by opening them up and keeping them open, because a generation not lost this formation, which is the guarantor, in our country, because this is what the Parliament of Catalonia has decided, of equal opportunities in Catalonia. Education is part of the equal opportunities of our country, as it is of republic value, and this I think is important and is a success of everyone– it is a success of everyone–, it is a success of the education sector, obviously, and also of the health sector, that has accompanied it. The specific units that we have made, that move on to the schools, to do the tests when it is detects some case, quickly: confinements... The Recos, that are the referents of schools to the primary care center; a link... – with what it said before: structural policies and transformers –, a link between primary care and the school that has come to stay and that will be kept here. And that's gonna keep it here. He also knows perfectly well, in some intervention, that the assumption we approved is the second highest one approved in this Parliament, but he also knows perfectly well that the expenditure deserved by the health system is much higher than the expenditure deserved there was in 2010. And that we have not spared in anything to advance, and to end the detail, and that we have said and have specified here many times. And a point of residence. I went to Tremp yesterday. I went to Tremp yesterday, and I was there all day, and I also talked to some family members. And on the side of the hard situations that people see, not just the residents and the families, but the workers who work in a residence, who find themselves with an outbreak of these characteristics and which is really very difficult... first, because it's because, I mean, they're sick too, and they feel positive, and it's very difficult to answer when it's affecting the people that you take care of day by day; it's your job to take care of these people. So, clearly say, and I repeat again, and I made an express press wheel to Tremp, to explain with total transparency... Therefore, I do not accept in any way that it is said that it took nine days to intervene. And I explained it to you yesterday: don't intervene all the residences where there are cases; it doesn't have to be that way, it doesn't have to be that way, nor is it our vocation to change the management entity. Now, we intervened from the first day: November 19th, first position in a worker; on November 20th, the entire residence had been cracked, residents and workers of the residence, all the crack. In five days, they make two serious cracks all over the residence. And you know that when we test this is the consequence of something that's happened before, and that unfortunately this bud couldn't be avoided at that time. The buds are avoided with prevention, and are avoided mainly with sectoral plans and scrupulously complement all protocols set out in sectoral plans and contingency plans. And that's it. Now, zero risk doesn't exist, ever. That's it. The priority is to protect life and more of the residences, because we know that when the Covid actually enters a residence, then it can cause many deaths. We were also able to talk about fifty-five people desalinated, recovered from the Covid. And that's also what we have to say, because it happens, and because we don't have all the knowledge of why some people have been able to overcome the Covid in the same place, in the same place, not a different wing, not a different place, also with a lot of vulnerability, so, for safety, they've been able to overcome it almost without symptoms or without symptoms, and some people have actually made a lot, a lot, and they've lost their lives. And that's hard. But when you said: "Acting on teaching, acting on residences..., I explain it: we have acted on teaching, with all possible prevention in the centers, when we have detected some case; we are acting on residences and we have not stopped doing so at any time, and they are a top priority, as some MP also claimed. And, besides, all the residences before Nadal will do TAR, rapid antiquity tests, to all residents, and post-Nadal a universal cribratge with PCR. I think we don't stop doing actions in this sense, beyond the weekly cracks, because they have to be very often to protect the entry of the virus; cracks that will be done to workers, which is the most likely way of entering the virus. Respect the commons. It's all right: "Advanced his measurements..., all folded. Listen, we haven't stopped doing this at any time, I mean, every day we're analyzing the data, every day. Obviously, with an indicator we don't just base ourselves, look at trends, confirm and make decisions. And we have to do so, with very complicated decisions, because complexity, as Sámper also said, is very high; complexity is very high. When he asks us for permissions, I'll also tell him: talk to Mayor Colau, respect the perimeters, and what he asks us and what he puts us on the table. Therefore, here we are trying to do all the balance, and not all that anyone asks is possible to do it. And so there are many things we say: "Listen, this is not possible, we are not in a situation of being able to move forward in this sense. So, we have to maintain, we have to be careful, we have been stuck on this plate... I would have liked to have been able to deploy the whole plan. The situation is not this, neither here nor the rest of Europe. I didn't make a diagnosis, I didn't make a diagnosis. Precisely, I think I've tried to explain not just things we've done, but what is the vision of the future of 2021 that we have. High priority: vulnerable people. With this program that we have done, not only to those who live in residences but to people vulnerable to Covid, we follow them, we trick them, we concert them visit, and therefore we also make them aware of their own risks. It's the maximum we can do, it's the minimum and the maximum. It's the least responsibility and the most in the sense that beyond here... the rest is already affecting much more of his personal life. I didn't do any diagnostics. Actually, when she asks us what we've done, what do we do? What, if not, is the Enforcing and Transformation Plan of the City Hall? More than three thousand professionals who are already contracted and who will continue to contract because we have given it validity until 2022, to primary attention. We have strengthened primary care with our space; with the influenza vaccination campaign, which has been higher than ever; we have followed it..., they have to change their ways of working to be able to follow the chronics, they have to double circuit with a huge effort on the part of the primary. We've put school references, we've put scribble units in the schools, we've created from zero this case tracking system and contacts between primary care, the epidemiological surveillance network, putting Covid managers in the primary. We have made four public health programmes – four public health programmes – to incorporate professionals in different tasks of the tracking and surveillance circuit. We have made five new buildings that will manage our hospitals in Vall d'Hebron; Broggi; Bellvitge; Arnau de Vilanova, de Lleida, and the Germans Trias and Pujol, of Badalona. We have prepared the vaccination that is needed – and I think it is important, to share it, this strategy of vaccination, in this Parliament, in this house, because it is this vision that begins in a few weeks, and, given that the session period is over... And also with the prevention of residences, as I was able to speak. Residences. No protocol limits the performance for the welfare of notices, heads, heads, heads, heads or heads. Where we've worked a lot with the sector, a lot, a lot, to find the balance between this maximum security that is, well, keeping them all locked up... maximum security, perfect. Very quiet we would be. But what about the right of big people, of residents, to feel accompanied? Not to be alone? To take care of your emotional salvation? This has cost us a lot. We have worked for Nadal – for Nadal – because this Nadal will be different – it will be different. We have already said so many here: it will be different, yes. But no one has to feel like it's just this Nadal either, and we have to find the ways, and some of the ways is also allowing the exits and visits. And what do we do? So we're implementing the TARs, the rapid antiquity tests, to all residents before Nadal and universal cribring with PCR after Nadal. Representatives of the councillor, in residences, that we have appointed, and that they take care of; rapid intervention teams, when there is a case in any residence. The zero risk, I repeat, does not exist, we agree, and we all want to minimize it. Now, I have seen the performances that, from the first day, in Tremp and in all other residences, always move, always, with the gaze of protecting the salvation of notices and yachts, of godfathers and godfathers, as they also say to Tremp – godfathers and godfathers. With the installation of oxygen, which also allows us to take care of these great people; the welfare at the same time, which is the residence and which, obviously, allows us to help them through primary care and through the hospital and socio-health centres of reference. That's all we've been doing in the residences, that we won't stop doing it, and that if it comes out, right? Whatever we say, listen, we'll give support to anything, initiative that we inge. [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] I always say, "Listen, let's try this, let's try it." We don't know how he's gonna get out, but he's not there anymore, and so let's try it. And we did, and we proved it. And not all the cracks came out the same way. Some have said: "Ostres, they are not well directed. Many of us have completed them with a much needed aspect, which is community intervention; community intervention from collaboration with the assemblies. It is not just a screening with monkeys, going there and doing tests; it is to explain to the people who represent this screening; mediators, when they are needed, because we address many different collections; also to talk to venerable leaders to get to that target population, that we believe it is important that it arrives, this screening; not only the sensitisation, not just the one we voluntarily want, but the one we need to protect, that we need to take care of and that sometimes it is much more difficult to arrive for our usual channels. With regard to the Socialist Group, Mr Miquel Iceta, thanks for the support, I tell you the truth. But I also want to be honest: we need the support to be different, more terrified, more global and about people. I don't have to give support to myself – all that I can thank and, besides, any one shows, look, good words, so, always welcome – has given support to people. And that's what we've asked a lot of times, from this government – a lot of times. You talk about cooperation and coordination between governments, about institutional loyalty. I have never sought confrontation, I have never sought political confrontation in this crisis of the Covid, and if I ever went out to say anything respect the ministry or respect some policy of the State, it is that before I have said it privately to who it is, and it is that we think, and that I have all the right and we have all the right, like the Government, to say, to defend what we believe. Therefore, he has never sought political confrontation, precisely we seek this cooperation and coordination. And it's that it's the only state, it's the only government, the Spanish government that hasn't come out with help to economic sectors and people. It's the only one – it's the only one. And I know perfectly well that I don't trust much in this Spanish state, but I have a complete mistrust of it, but there are some rulers in this Spanish state, who, more than that, share government, and both parties are also represented in this chamber, and I believe that they must also assume this role. I'd like you to have it with people, with social workers, with residences, with a help that never came, or just with the financing of the law of dependence. We are paying for this reserve of seats in the residences to be able to travel – we are paying for it – and we are paying for all the evidence. We're doing everything! And we're taking over everything! And we have the responsibility and we want to keep it. Now, vis-à-vis the people, it would be much easier for this cooperation and coordination than you say, not only for the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which has made a lot of effort, and which I have said before: the autonomies, which I know, pay the share to the Treasury of Social Security, and this charge from the Spanish Government, do not depend on the Catalan Government. And who did help the locals of this country? Who? Who did help the local people in this country? So I really appreciate it, and I'm trying to say it with the best of my ability, but also giving a clear message: we need this help to be different. We don't need it as a government, we need it as a citizen of Catalonia. It has to be answered differently. You've been talking about congregations that are vacant, like, for example, or that have been vacant, like the MIRs. And we came to an agreement. And it wasn't easy, was it? That's to say, there were days, there were some very logical demands, and it was a time when he valued his work very much, and everyone does, therefore, his position of strength, and it's normal and you're in a negotiation. But he knows we've come to an agreement. The agreements have gone from government, they have translated into finance, and, besides, to the band of that, we have done, this year, the offer of places MIR, EIR, PIR, QIR and FIR and all that there is, that is, of all the disciplines that there are, not just the doctors. History memory: 1,630 places; almost two-cents, 189 more than last year, than we already remember. This is a 13_per_cent increase. And we make a historical jump in nursing places, which increase by 47,7_per_cent. And do you know what this formation means? So, what will be nine million euros more, these nine seats that there are. And in total every year we invest, because it is a clear, clear, good, powerful reversal for the future, 100_million euros for the formation of resident specialists in our country. I think this is great and we have to put it in value and that's why I didn't want to stop saying it. And I don't want to leave myself, because sometimes we make the mistake, right? With the groups that support the government, therefore, we may not spend so much time on them, and we have more dialogue with the opposition. But this is the Parliament of Catalonia, every opinion is invalid, not, but the next, and I, to the Republican Group, want to give it the thanks to put in value, so what has been done. Thank you. Because I think it's really a lot, and I'm not saying it, I'm trying to move into the mouths of so many health professionals, who are the ones who are in different centers, but also workers of the Catalan Health Service, of the Catalonia Public Health Agency, which has been exposed by this public health crisis, of the same Health Department, so that these messages arrive, I think, that it's also important, and that it has to be put in value. We've always been open to analyzing, flexibly, to be open to everything. And I think it's true, here, in this crisis, there's no gurus or magic bowls, which is very uncertain, yet. Let us clearly try to explain to the people who represent this uncertainty, until we donate, and the few certain ones we have, we put them in knowledge. And, also, that's why I appreciate putting them in value, because it's important to get to know these certain things and give this message of hope. I am convinced that we also have to give it, this message of hope, because, even though these people..., also those who are through, also those who are in an ERTO, also the autonomies that cannot exercise their economic activity in a normal way, must be able to take over to support also, therefore, these coming months, but that there is this light at the end of the tunnel. This balance respects the Covid and non-Covid activity is essential in our system, because it is essential for the salvation of the people, and I think that this is also important to be able to reschedule it. And yes, we've prepared ourselves, we've had to reinvent ourselves a lot, and I think it's part of many sectors of Catalan society. And that's part of what the congresswoman was saying, too, isn't it? , the culture of effort, the work, the people who have had to transform business, products, services... And, obviously, therefore, with this look that everything would get easier if everyone assumed, in each Administration, that maximum effort that I think is making the health professionals from many months ago – from many months ago. I'll leave it here. Thank you very much and, as we are, I reiterate my best wishes for these holidays. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.155.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's a turn, now, for the group to make the reply. And in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes; why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They have five minutes of reply later. Anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. No, no, they have five minutes of reply later, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.156.0	See, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.157.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.158.0	The councillor has just accused us, here in this plenary, of preventing a denial from being mediated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.159.0	And he did it in his intervention, after listening to the congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.160.0	All right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.161.0	...so, you'll have five minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.162.0	I'm asking for the word for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.163.0	All right, Congresswoman. Five minutes later, they'll be able to respond, and so they'll be able to intervene...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.164.0	We insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.165.0	Mr. Carrizosa. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mr. Carrizosa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.166.0	Yeah? Shall I start? [[Pause.]] Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Sàmper, you said that there are those who put..., or we put indistinctly the example of Madrid and the example of Germany. They're both compatible, huh? The example of Madrid has always been that we have said how the curve folded in that community, keeping hoteliers, cafes, bars, restaurants better; keeping a less rigorous curfew. And the improvement of the curve came. And the example of Germany is absolutely compatible because that is the one we use to ask for the EUR 1,500_million aid we ask for in the general budgets of the State in which our Government should have been involved. And you, as the government of the Generalitat, could have asked such actions as those of the German government, to execute from the government of Spain. But if you only talk to the Government of Spain to get advantages for the politicians of their parties who are in prison, then it is that you are not looking for the good of all Catalans. That is the explanation of why we set an example Madrid, we set an example Germany, and unfortunately... And I say it again, I am sorry as Catalan, in Madrid 12,500 jobs have been created; that is famous as Spanish. And I'm sorry as a Catalan that here in Catalonia, while Madrid wins jobs, we lose 34.200. And that's because our companies are leaving, because they have more advantageous taxation in other parts of Spain, because here we have legal and political instability. We have political instability and legal instability. And, you, as a lawyer – who also still has the traces of a lawyer, it will be you..., it will take little time in the Chamber, but you, when referring to congruence with the president, seemed to be asking a president of the Chamber, and that seems very good to me, gives me sympathy. I think you must be a lawman. And, therefore, I do not know very well what he does at the end of this government that has dedicated itself to making decrees law even against the conclusive and unanimous opinions of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. Because here it was done..., it was legislated in front of the gallery and the law is the least important thing in this pandemic. And that's also what makes us run away from companies. So, Mr Sàmper, it's not that the Carrizosa MP does strange stills to get everything into the process, it's that you're really missing opportunities. And I wish we had an autonomous community focused on fighting the Covid. I wish Catalonia had its hands free politically without the remorse that all of you, all those who have been focusing on issues other than those that matter to all Catalans. I'm sorry, but the process, Mr. Sàmper, has missed our opportunities, distracted us from what we care about Catalans; it has not focused on work, on health, on caring for the elderly, on raising children, during this legislature; it has not focused on us; it has not allowed us to manage this pandemic properly. And yes, the trial has a good part of the blame for everything. And with regard to Mrs Vergés, she said that we have focused on aid and said, and I thank her, that our adviser from Castile and León is a great professional. I think so, too. This councillor..., which we also have the vice-president of the community who is a doctor, have certainly acted very decisively in the health aspect, but I would like to recall that this determined action and important restrictions in Castilla and León did come together with aid that was granted to all small businesses and self-employed people, that did not know about the measures of the government at the full press conference, but that they had agreed with them, these measures, and the 290_millions, by the way, of aid that the community paid to these groups affected by the Covid. You have also compared the medical tests of Murcia, which are not far from those made in Catalonia, but with a population of 1_million_and_half inhabitants. Finally, I hope and wish that, if a third wave of coronavirus comes to us, with you in function, you will learn..., check a little, certainly, fix. It is not wrong to look where things are right, be it Madrid, be it Germany or be it Japan, as Mr Sàmper says. But the important thing is that we are going, you – forgive – to suffer them until we have an election. We hope you will learn some of the mistakes of the first and second hours, for the good of all Catalans. 'I have said, and wanted to say, 'flood. This pandemic has been able to manage an autonomy. But you yourself have fulfilled the prophecy formulated by Mr Torra, who did not come here to manage an autonomy. And they have shown that they have not actually come to manage that autonomy or the pandemic. And, unfortunately, I believe that this is the final photo that will always accompany your Government when history has already passed by on you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.168.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, counselors. Very briefly. I bring him back to give support, counsel, and I hope I will not harm him, because his reaction to my previous support seemed to me more thinking: "Woe, woe, woe, there are hugs that kill, than no other things. To say it: I have as a rule to suspect from all governments that, in view of being able to defend in position its management, I constantly seek comparison with others who are responsible for what goes wrong. I already told him exactly the same figures, because I don't have any new ones, in the back Ple, about this. There have been, until September 329,675 protected workers with a social benefits expenditure of EUR 449 million; autonomously, 285,232 have rejected some type of social security benefit and do not count the new ones, in the case of the workers, the new types of ERTE that were put on the march at the end of September. For what it does to enterprises, 15,233_millions downstream ICO to 110,397 Catalan enterprises. I'm in a hurry to say, would it be any hotter? Sure. And what should we be working on – and the vice president invited us to prepare 2021 from that perspective? Sure. But I don't think we can minimize the effort. Who less can minimize it are those who say it's all little and have voted with PP, Citizens and Vox against the State's draft general assumptions. Surely, they've wondered where Pedro Sánchez is? Today, in the Congress, we are aware of the state of alarm and of the European councils that have unlocked more than EUR 140,000_million, of which we can enjoy if we are able, among all, to mobilise the resources..., I forgive, in this case, the necessary projects. I told you on another occasion, we'd have to put a certain priority on things. We have the day: first, the primary; still there are consultants, primary care centers that are closed and this, objectively, is expanding waiting lists for non-Covid pathologies, but also impossibility to serve the Covid in a first line when it may not be necessary, in many cases, to go to hospital. Two, track the follow-up. They still donate information that seems to me to be simple, because it's a yes or a no. If a parliamentary mandate cannot be fulfilled, then the Government has the right to explain the reasons, but that is not the case, for the reasons that follow. Third, the professionals. I think we all agree with that. There are fears that they have to deal with salary and work conditions and there are no others that they have to deal with a technical professional and recognizance and collegial esteem. Do it. Fourth, the waiting lists are increasing. It is true that this also fluctuated as a result of the requests, we would say, of the Covid, but they have widened, they continue in a few months accumulating people who have seen the diagnostic tests or their health follow-up updated and it would be useful to avoid this doing an impossible task to manage or govern in the future. Maximum transparency. I understand that the government says it gives all the information, but it seemed to me to appreciate that a number of groups feel that it is not yet enough, surely the level of detail of some things would be, we would say, better, and so did the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, so as to seek an argument of authority that is not only the opinion of parliamentary groups. Tell them: they have our support. He's got it. If we can tighten restrictions, they'll hold our support. And we won't say at the same time, and they've been... no. If I have to, the government has our support, and I say it without knowing what decisions they are thinking or need, but they do. In other words, this is the last intervention of the legislature and, therefore, we will be allowed to wish them all and all good holidays in which we must give security and caution. This Nadal won't be, it doesn't have to be, we need to get old because it's not like the others, because it's the best gift we can get each other. And the nipples we haven't given, the hugs we haven't shared, so there's time to do it. There is one who said that Holy Week will be the new Nadal, taking advantage of this slogan, sometimes, of purchase; I don't know if it will be like that, but in any case, take care of yourself, take care of yourself a little bit among all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.170.0	Let's see. Three, four very basic things. Counselor Sàmper was talking about the complexity of the situation. I think everyone here – all of us – is aware of the complexity of the situation and came to say – "come say, no – said that in some interventions the situation is trivialized. So, counselor, I think that what trivializes the situation is this government, when some filter documents about the restrictive measures and the other part of the government gets up from the table and the citizenry gets sucked and in complete uncertainty about a pandemic. What generates banalization is this government when a councillor from Esquerra Republicana, at a certain hour in a radio, says "A and at the same time, on a measure of the government, there is a councillor from Junts for Catalonia in another radio of B. This is banalization. This government also trivializes, because you know that you have not told the truth; that when this government approves a measure, all the councillors and the councillors of the government give it solid support. It's not true. This government trivializes when you turn help to the locals into the Games of fame. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This government banishes when the residency visitation regime is still dependent on each residence, and knowing that it is a highly vulnerable collection, and when they still don't know, from the government, how to fill the issue of resident staff downfalls. This government trivializes the situation when trade unions and employers have to pursue them to concert, to dialogue, because you are giving them the bait, and end up feeling like a winged government. This government trivializes when we're still waiting for them to invite us to a meeting to talk about European reconstruction and reconstruction foundations. And this government also banishes when in new months it did not want to launch a national pact for the salvation of a pandemic. Mrs. Geis. Mrs Geis has been particularly upset that I would say "Nyigui-nyogui government. And I would ask you, Mr. Geis, that you do not fight repression with the government of nigui-nyogui, because I, exactly, have said that this government is a government of nigui-nyogui, it is a government that generates uncertainty, when many times it gives bands, and it seems that it acts in response to the pressures that the government of which the rope is most strained and the last call – and that they will not be able to deny – many times, in some measures that have taken, not only in the area of health restrictions, but also in time to open certain sectors. He said: "We have always anticipated each other. No, no, You've always anticipated it, and I also said it in the initial speech, when I wanted to tell others what to do. They always anticipated it there. When you... you had to tell the central government what it was to do, here you always anticipated. Don't tell me you've always anticipated when you've exceeded yours. And I'll give you two examples: tracking contract – here I can assure you that they haven't anticipated – or planning the next one – either. That said, there are two_months left for elections, two_months left in pandemic, in social crisis, in economic crisis. What I said before: it gives them courage and think about the country, anticipating not to lose lives, but also not to lose business or jobs. So, if we're not doing well, if we're on the third wave, as it seems, then measures and help. We'll be at your side whenever you're honest and apply the measures. And as it is also my last intervention in this legislature, I do mean that, despite all the disagreements, despite the fact that I believe that there has been a legislature that has not gone well, despite the fact that all of us, and all of us, have worked very hard, and I am sure that we could have done better, all of us, but I do want to recognize primarily the people of the government who have left their skin to work, they have worked very hard, something else is that I consider that the fruits are not the right ones, that they have not succeeded, but work, I think they have worked very hard. I want to wish them all and every one of them who are here, of those who follow us from home, therefore, the best in personal and family. And I would certainly like, if I may, to end by thanking my group, therefore, for the work they have done throughout this parliamentary term. I think we've made a constructive opposition, this was our intention; so I want to thank you. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to each of the deputies and the deputies – and finally, president – for their work, for their commitment and for their friendship, because we are no longer just company, but we are friends. And exactly the same thing I'm extending to the technical team, that we're all very aware here of how we need all the teams...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.171.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.172.0	... that many times they don't appear on TV; in fact, they never appear in communication media, but that they are essential.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.173.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.174.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.175.0	It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, that the two deputies will start the time. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.176.0	Counselor, what you did today in this plenary isn't just miserable, but more is lied to. We ask you, in this House, to withdraw the words you said today. He accused the CUP of preventing the mediating of a denunciation with electoral purposes. This explains very well his way of doing politics; when there are seen at stake and in the midst of the pandemic. Last week the explanations were not to be given to me; they were to be given to the Alexander, the White, the Amina, Isabel or Jenny and her children; charges that were executed by the Department of Interior at their orders. And so today, you don't think that by doing this intervention you can avoid the situation that exists on the street, because every day the situation is more tense. And today he talks to us, here, before this plenary, but before whom he should give his face is before the housing movements, that every day they face his squadron moves, that with police brutality they attack them before every disgrace they try to prevent, where there are then vulnerable families. And I repeat, counselor, I hope you withdraw the lie you said today in this plenary, that you withdraw your words. And, president, we're asking you not to go into the session log.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.177.0	Honourable Counselor, in a very cordial way, I would ask you that while we are talking at some point, in any case, at all, look; if you don't want to listen to us, it's another thing, but we think it's a matter of respect and education. First of all, we must express that it has caused us surprise, not only that which my esteemed companion Maria Sirvent manifested, in the terms which she expressed, but also her own. I simply replaced him to listen to his intervention again. But, look, because you're using this to this parliamentary subgroup, you're not gonna stop saying what you're thinking. And what you may have done is not to answer to what we asked you, which was an important and substantive political issue, which is: this government spends thirty thousand euros, on a device – and I asked you: it's thirty thousand, it's twenty thousand, it's twenty-five thousand? – or to guarantee habitation? You didn't answer that. You went on to make reference to the shirts, that all the moves were in their shirts. So, look, I, like I don't mean to lie to you, I teach you the thirty-five-moss season with a helmet shirt, they have a new shirt, which is the helmet shirt; also the camera shirt, which is a new form of shirt, and then all kinds of shirts, which would look like something else that isn't shirts, because you can see it. [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] It would be good if I could look at it to see, what you have manifested, if it corresponds to reality. And then you too today asked 'not trivialize; you insisted, in a vehemently way. You've got the whole right to do it. But after saying this: « The economic proposals of the UPC are like those of the PP or Citizens. Perhaps we do not respect ourselves, but as we respect the PP and the Citizens, because it is obvious that manifesting this in this Parliament, obviously – and I would ask you in this case that you do not banalitize what we are proposing – therefore, it is not at all accurate, it would seem like a ban. And you came here today maybe to do more than anything else. Then, Constable Vergés, mirin, we will not tell you anything different from what we have already done in this legislature: assumptions, change of the model of management and end up with precarious work. We have never said that we are responsible for the world... No, you have never done the UPC, you know more, that we have never done it at the moment. But we do think that putting life in the centre goes through these three elements, which is a presupposition, which is a change in the way Catalan public health is managed, and which goes through to end job insecurity. We said it three years ago, eight years ago, and we're still doing it today. And, lastly and finally, we are the ones of yes: yes to a salary of EUR 1,239 – the government groups voted against it – yes to 500_million of the guaranteed income of citizenship – the government groups voted against it – yes to the point that we are now dealing with a change in the guaranteed income of citizenship in this House – the government groups voted against it – yes to reverse the detail of the teaching – the government groups voted against it – and all a series of measures that we have proposed these three years, and that we say: "And where are we going? So we're dealing with what you've also voted against: increasing the IRPF to which it has more than €60 thousand and increasing the tax on inheritance taxes and donations. And we end up with the same idea that we've moved before: this crisis or the rich pay it or we'll end up paying the working classes. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.179.0	Thank you, President. Simply, and in a very telegraphic way, wish Mr. Sámper luckier and luckier than his predecessors in their dealings with the CUP, and above all more support for his own party and government companions than his predecessors had. As at least in this topic – no more masses – and without which I serve as a precedent, I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Anna Caula has a turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.181.0	Thank you, President. I'd like to take advantage of this as well as at least to position us on some things we've felt. With reference to Ciutadans, I think that, as always, that apocalyptic speech, right? , of, many times, empty headlines. They told us about many of the proposals that you have brought here. I think that sometimes they conjugate proposals with empty headlines, rather than saying that we want to improve public sanitation. On this, we'll all sign. Speaking of the PSC, we appreciate this willingness, don't we? , therefore, to want to work, to cooperate, but, as the Councillor said, apart from good words, they must be effective. We have an example that is SEPE: direct help to autonomies who will be charged before Nadal arrives; from SEPE there are people who will still be charged and it is their vital income each month. Please, let's get down there, 'cause we're late and it's vital. We have it this morning: first wave, refocusing. We all know how it went, and we could talk about it all the time. This second we could call it the invisible response of the State; it's the one who has rejected resources, it's the one who has the position to inject direct money, please, do it. And to our common partners..., and say companies because I believe that in essence we share many of the social policies and the refons, so sometimes I think that the Faristol we use to explain versions of the stories. We've all had difficulties in this legislature; what do I remember? , and only three years ago, that this parliamentary group that you now chair began with the presidency of company Xavi Domènech and of the Elisenda as the spokesman. They say: "Responsibility. So; shared, clear, transparent responsibilities. I wanted to make it out of one piece. We now see how the INE published March data in May of last year. They said there were 18,557 more dead than they had been detected at this point. We're talking about almost 20 percent of this reality. When we analyze a little more of this data, we observe that 87 per cent are older than 70 years. These 13,746 went to residences. His company, Mr. Iglesias, if I don't recall it badly, has not yet appeared and is the most responsible state over this area. Yes, there are delegated powers, and that is why we have held both Councillor Chakir and Councillor Vergés accountable, because the greatest responsibility goes from his department, and you know it. He explained: "There are people who only delegate responsibilities to others. And here, let me hide, because I think so, the top delegating responsibilities would be with Mayor Colau. A little while ago he said to us: "We're tightening up" to open up; you're here today in this faristol he said to us: "Restrictions, responsibilities, and we act. Talk to your mayor to see where we're going. Consorci Sanitari de Barcelona, 40_per_cent involvement of the Barcelona Assembly, the other 60_per_cent of the Generality. But we're too used to what? When there's good news from the consortium, Mayor Colau emerges defending what kind of good interventions. That's right, when these are more delicate, it's the generality's problem to deal with. They're talking about government awards. Here we remember: Assembling Barcelona, the SAD, one of the most important awards; ServiSAD, the winner, with DomusVi; his social, to the tax haven of Jersey Island, and until now that he was managing it was Clece, Florentino, who previously told us Mrs Escarp, an entity that was not primarily born for this is managing the dependency service. So-so, so-so. Her Member, Mrs Ribas, talks to us many times about proximity, territoriality, knowing among all of us that there are different situations, and you are now making an impact on visits to residences. So yes, because perhaps a small residence of gironine comarques is not the same as a macro-residence in Barcelona. Therefore, I believe that we can analyse each environment with its referent. Therefore, the location; the location for coordination, transparent information and optimization. And add a little bit to the dinner you've done a lot of. Let's finish a legislature that if something hasn't gone smoothly. To thank the learnings, to thank the learnings that among all I think we have self-generated. It is a space, the Parliament, that, if you are willing to listen, to learn, to be flexible and to gather everything that everyone offers us, be of the color that follows, you can get out of here with much more full learning and the word, and above all with very good company and company, represent the colors they represent. Many thanks, by the way, and above all pass some warm holidays, even though perhaps the physical proximity does not accompany...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.182.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.183.0	...but let us all return here with the salvation with which we welcome each other. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.184.0	And, to finish the debate, has a turn of intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.185.0	Well, I also wanted to make a series of brief considerations in order to finish this reply. The first is that we place the Government of the Generalitat also, in these measures that I must take, that take into account proximity and decentralisation. At the local world above us the need, therefore, to interpret..., and this scalpel many times economic and social delimit it much more, because it is not the same reality of Celrà, the reality of Sort, the reality of Ager or the Ampulla. And, therefore, here we must be much more..., we demand decentralisation. We ask for independence, but we also ask for decentralisation, and that, therefore, the decision making is not so, many times, thought of as Barcelona, eh? Second, the common ones... And when you're referring to not barring repression and the pandemic, it's because... because you've made reference to President Torra, huh? And I think President Torra has been recognized as a leader and anticipator in this crisis, and, more importantly, he is recognized by people who, precisely, may not be prone to his ideology. So, from this point of view, I've said it, and why did I like it that today we finish the legislature, so there's the president of the generality, huh? And we're not all there. We want Nadal but there are prisoners and exiles, and people who take more than three years to prison, and who take to prison and exile longer than with the People's Party government. And, therefore, I believe that we must claim it. Second, when Congressman Iceta..., you're very alive, because you've been there for many years, and you say: "No, President Pedro Sánchez is in Congress. I know. I didn't mean where President Pedro Sánchez was physically, I asked him where the Mediterranean Corridor is, where decentralisation is, where direct help is, where European funds are; that's what he meant. Physically, I understand you must be somewhere, but you, how much you're very alive, so..., huh? Third, when he speaks..., and also, when he refers to..., and with this conclusion, to the issue of residences, he also wanted to tell the councillor – and share it with you, huh? , the right of family members and the rights of people who are in residence – above all there are people who this Nadal... We say: "The Nadal that you will be different from this. But there's a lot of people who saw in the residences... that maybe they won't own Nadal. And that's why it's... and that's causing a lot of family members to be psycho-social, huh? – seas, daughters, nets–, that they cannot go to the residences; to the ill, to whom they are to the residences, that have suffered the Covid... I mean that here there is an idiosyncrasy very much..., and, therefore, they give them maximum sensitivity, because we – if God wants, no? – so the very Nadal was there, but, at the residences, the opportunity cost of not being able to visit..., this relationship with family members, so it's very complicated. And yes, as Mrs Caula said, she also knew a lot about the differentiation of the type of residence and the conditions of residence, and therefore, this scalpel, huh? , social, economic, health care, I think it's very important. And then, too, when I refer... to Congresswoman Albiach, the topic of banalization. Clearly, whenever it comes to coalition governments... coalition governments are governments that are not uniform, and therefore have different points of view. And the same different points of view that you said, right? On behalf of the Government of Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra, therefore, they are the same different points of view... Or do you agree with everything that Minister Calvino says? I don't think so? That there are no different public positions of Spanish government ministers? Which, in the end, are coalition governments. And, therefore, at a time of so much complexity, I think it's normal that there are frictions as well. And I understand the criticism, huh? I understand the criticism and I understand that there are aspects that are always better. And I think that, in my interventions, always, since I was a Member, I recognize that there is always room for improvement and self-criticism in public action, which is something I have always defended for many years. And, therefore, recognize this, too, do not say that it is triviality because the government of the PSOE and of Podemos, therefore, also has its frictions, eh? And, finally, in relation to Nadal, right? , and at this end, so yes, we finish the parliamentary term without democratic normality, with elections that will please me if they respect the election results; with prisoners, exiles; with a lack of judicial control on the part of the other judicial spheres, that I do not trust people. And, therefore, I also wish Nadal well for everyone, but also with a reference to those people who continue to be in prison, continue to be in exile. And finally, to Councilman Sàmper. I know you have the question... and that's why you're acting. And with the legitimate criticism that there may have been, at all costs, I am absolutely convinced, because we have not had many conversations with the parliamentary group, that the will of Councillor Sámper is to guarantee rights and freedoms; that it defends a new judicial and police model, in this case of intervention; that it defends the mediation. And we will always be on the side of a counselor who, despite the legitimate criticisms there may be, acts, worries, gets angry and argues. Because these are the ones that really change things, the ones that are between the institutions and, with all the strength that sometimes there is to stop the changes, they are there trying to give their face. And, therefore, you have my support. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This debate is over, we suspend the session until... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, tell me; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.187.0	Yes; for a point of order and for compliance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.188.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.189.0	Yeah. On the basis of Rule 185 of the Rules of Procedure, I request you, President, to ask the Councillor whether or not he corrects the lie he said at this plenary session. And, on the other hand, if we can resolve whether this lie will be removed from the Minutes of today's plenary session. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.190.0	No, no, Article 185 – now the secretary general points out to me – is in any case wrongly invoked, because it speaks of the general account. In any case, respect the second part of your question, to say, as you know – you know perfectly well because we have dealt with the Bureau some time before – that it is not at the disposal of the Presidency, nor just the Bureau of Parliament, to arrange on the content of the acts of the plenary; only in cases of calls to order, which is not the case. And, for what you do to the first part of your intervention, you made it clear to the Faristol: the counselor has not asked for intervention, therefore, from this it is due, I understand – and in any case, if not, he can obviously intervene –, that he does not withdraw the expression. Thank you. Four-quarters of the time we'll be back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.191.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law No 46/2020 of 24 November on urgent administrative, tax and financial control measures]] [[203-00072/12]] Specifically, we do so with the item on the agenda, which is the correspondent to the debate on the validation of Decree 46/2020 of 24 November, of urgent measures of administrative character, taxation and financial control. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President and Councillor of Economy and History will speak in the first place and on behalf of the Government, in order to express the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, when you turn, Mr. Aragones, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.192.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. On behalf of the Government, I again bring a new decree to the validation of this chamber, which will in fact be the quarter we are debating in this plenary, which is the last ordinary plenary of the legislature. In fact, despite the fact that Parliament, therefore, will dissolve properly and that the Government will continue to function – until a new one has been formed, after the elections of February 14, which this new Government will be the one to take over – the current Government will continue to take urgent decisions to combat the pandemic. For which, then, of course it will be necessary that some of the later decrees that we have been approving or even some that we may approve until the 14th of February, be validated in the framework of the Permanent Chamber to debate and validate them. The health emergency situation and the resulting social and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic continue and will continue. In fact, on the 22nd of December, in which this chamber will be dissolved, the pandemic will not be dissolved. The effects on the economic and social environment will not be resolved and, unfortunately, it will remain well alive until we achieve the group immunity that allows us to hold the Covid-19 pandemic under control. As much as the cows begin to administer them in the next weeks and soon, the fact is that we will still be forced to take steps to avoid contagious diseases. That is why it is essential not to put the guard down for a moment, nor to take advantage of any opportunity to make a new call to responsibility, as we did in this morning's plenary. There's a lot of emergencies. And it is for this reason that the government is under an obligation to serve an extraordinary mechanism such as that of the law decree. Som, we live extraordinary times. And in extraordinary times, extraordinary mechanisms. And that's what explains the high number of decrees we used this year. On this occasion I present, for its validation, Decree Law 46/2020, which we approved by the Government on November 24, which includes various measures of administrative character, taxation and financial control, which I will go on to explain – some of them in more detail – further. First of all, one of the measures that has been put in place is the mechanism for helping us to self-employed workers – the locals of this country – which will now begin to pay this week. In administrative matters, this decree has made it possible to create a register of self-employed workers, economically affected by the coronavirus, in order to facilitate their access to the economic aid of the Administration and to simplify the procedures to be followed in order to achieve them. In view of the Government's willingness to grant economic aid to those affected by the pandemic quickly and with guarantees, the Government, which we have done, is to enable an exceptional procedure, which must take account of the urgency of the emergency situations and, at the same time, does not exclude anyone from the high potential number of beneficiaries. What we have done is innovate, from the point of view of administration, before a new situation. This situation caused by the pandemic forces us to be very agile in that it is the inn on the march and the final payment of aid to economic sectors, to the type of workers or workers or also to other areas of social and collective life that need support. We cannot follow the usual procedures of calls for grants, in which first the bases are published, after the call, there is a term in which all requests for aid, etcetera, resolution and finally, payment are assessed. That's..., the usual subsidy procedure, it would take us a lot of months; mass months for an emergence that is from now on, and that, therefore, we needed to enable what was a different system. What we've done is, therefore, make this pre-registration process, which allows for two things to be done in the Administration. First of all, to have very clear who is the universe of potential beneficiaries, especially in a changing economic context, in which the reference of the fiscal data of the previous exercise cannot be the reference that we serve, because it is obvious that the exercise 2019, from the economic point of view, for whatever autonomous is very different from the exercise 2020, to its present economic situation. And, therefore, the indicators that we have of fiscal data can actually guide us – in fact, they guide us in strength – but they do not do so with the correctness necessary to be able to realize the necessary resources that are to be put into it. And, for another band, therefore, keep the universe very clear in order to be able to make the right allocation of resources and, secondly, the simplification of the procedures. As you know, in this case, one time the government approved this law decree and came into force, it opened the pre-registration process to access the help, on November 30. This process from November 30th to September 7th, the autonomies that complement these requests can, therefore, be entered in this register. In concert with the Català Council of Autonomous Work, in which the autonomous organizations of this country participate, some of them linked or forming part of trade union and employers' organizations, a copy closed the register and calling the Català Council of Autonomous Work, we jointly valued with the social agents and with the autonomous representatives the volume of the rebuffed requests and the most agile formula to be able to attend to them. Our intention is, before the situation of an economic and social pandemic that we will continue to live in the proper months, to agile all the procedures administered; it is to remove from the itinerary the possible obstacles that may ultimately cause you to help them to articulate – and to assume a presuppositionary effort and that means resources that cannot be allocated to another area–, so they arrive effectively and do so immediately. We want, therefore, that all the payments, which this same week will begin to take effect, are realized at the length of this month of disembarkation and before the holidays of Nadal have ended. The emergencies are many and many autonomes live in a limited situation. From this register, the result is that 132,000 self-employed workers were registered to realize the help that will be given a single aid of 2,000 euros for each shipment processed. This means that the Government of Catalonia has allocated EUR 264 million for this aid package for local workers in the country who have been affected by their activities for the second year of the Covid-19. Therefore, beyond the mechanism, which can be reproduced to help future self-governments and which can also be reproduced, by another type of aid, Article 2 of this decree also makes it possible to enter into a more specific regulation in the field of responsible declarations. The information we receive in this register is based, in principle, on the system of the declaration responsible by the solicitor. It is based, therefore, on the same principles as those established in the register. Therefore, in agile the processing of the grant of aid to the object and effect of not distorting the purpose and effect. For this reason, the use of this instrument, the declaration responsible, is established in order to certify the requirements to be beneficiaries and, subsequently, a verification plan is set up that will approve the granting organ so as to verify the justification of the state, situation or fact in which it is found or is supporting the person benefiting from the aid. In this Decree, it is also provided in Article 5 that these types of extraordinary character aids are subject to subsequent control by the General Intervention. It regulates the abst of this control and its effects. And that's important, because we move from pre-taxation on the part of the interveners to post-taxation. We need to regulate very well the responsible statement, as it is here, starting from a principle of trust to the city. I, of course, a posterior check. The experiences we have had similar, in convocations, indicate that the degree of truthfulness of the responsible statements presented for the citizens is high, practically unanimous. Incidences are accounted for. In this sense, therefore, the citizenry is obviously worthy of trust, as it cannot be in any other way. We know it's an exceptional measure of character. That, because of the pandemic, we have carried out and will continue to carry out economic operations and extraordinary assumptions, which require, because they are truly effective, very quickly in the processing of the correspondents who are being administered. And so, as I said, in many cases, in the control of the intervention function, which is instrumental in the use of public resources, has replaced what is the control envisaged for a subsequent control. It is important, therefore, that the beneficiaries of the help that the Administration brings in fulfilling the requirements, and it is essential that in the situation that we find ourselves able, therefore, that these help be provided as soon as possible. If only we could summon these help with a very great presuppositional effort, with resources that didn't go to another end, but that's rebroadcasting resources by the local authority in a year or so, in a year or so. It wouldn't be any use for nothing. Therefore, what we do is adapt the Administration to the needs of the citizenry and not make the citizenry adapt to the needs of the Administration. Therefore, this is the first package of measures related to the type of help to autonomes provided for by this decree. It's an important effort, an effort that will roughly cover a quarter of the autonomies in this country. And it clearly illustrates the difficulties in which this type of worker in our country finds himself. Another measure that includes this decree is a tax measure, which is a 100_per_cent increase in the tax share of the capital transfer tax in which concessions are made for public occupation. It is another outstanding measure, which aims to tackle the effects of the crisis in sectors which, precisely, occupy public roads such as inn, catering, street selling or non-sedentary selling, which, precisely, has been one of the most affected sectors, with suspensions of its activity, in some of these cases, practically total. And what we do is to include a bonus of the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts, in the manner of onerous capital transfers for administrative concessions or administrative acts that are comparable, that attract the private benefit of the public domain for certain uses, which was deserved between the 1st generation of 2020 and the 31st of December 2021. So that we can translate it into language that we can all hear without being used to what tax language is: we're talking about bars, restaurants, cafes that have terraces. That they pay their tax on the joint venture, but also that this concession involves a payment of the property transfer tax. This affects, too, what are the weekly markets, the non-sedentary markets, the street sale. The aim is to reduce the tax burden on these sectors which have been severely affected by restrictive measures aimed at reducing social interaction and, with it, the spread of the virus, such as public-opening restrictions, restrictions on growth, mobility, perimeter closure, etc. Go, the ones we are, therefore, applying and those who are object to debate and decision now and in the proper weeks. This measure is one more measure. We know that, on its own, it will not solve the end of the month of these establishments or negotiations, but it is a more fiscal measure that the Government has approved to alleviate the economic costs to citizens, families and businesses before the Covid-19. I want to remind you of some of these measures: we have modified the IRPF so as not to penalise the lower entry workers who have been affected by an ERT; we have changed the tourist tax so as to postpone what are the increments provided for in the law of measures accompanying the assumption; we have done the same in the tax on CO2 of vehicles, etc. Therefore, we have been taking action and we will follow them. And in this sense we believe that they are absolutely adequate measures. For another band, for all of you it is known..., and with this, so, I enter into another of the points of the law decree object, very focused on the scope of the game, which is the suspension of the expiration terms of certain authorities in the field of play. This measure, which I might surprise, may explain it in detail, and it is the fact, therefore, that there are many bars, cafes, which have some kind of gambling machine, gambling machine in their establishment. The authorities that finish and also involve the payment of the corresponding fee for their renewal, and that do so or have done so in a period when many of these establishments were shut down, could cause significant harm. Therefore, the decree provides for the suspension of the expiry terms of which are the replacement authorities and the operating permits of which are the recreational machines of type B, which are these machines of chance that, therefore, we can all find in a bar or in a cafeteria, and therefore also the suspension of the expiry terms of registration of the operators of recreational machines until June 30, 21. The measure, therefore, intends to give response to the crisis situation caused by the pandemic restrictions in the hostel facilities, where these devices are also installed, and also in the game operators. I'm done. I believe that I am not mistaken if I say that all the measures of the decree that we have defended on behalf of the Government are responsible for the logic of trying to accompany the sectors most affected by the restrictive measures of mobility, for the measures of protection of health that we have to take, and that they have an impact on economic activity; measures to be put in the context, the support measures, of the rest of the measures adopted for the Government, as well as the repeated complaints that we have also made so that the State Administration accompanies them with more ambitious measures that it has applied to them so far. For all these reasons, they demand the affirmative vote of the deputies and the deputies to validate this decree, because these measures help not only self-sustaining but also the inn sector and restore it at a complicated time, at a time when what they need is that we are at their side. That's why you need your support for the validation of this decree. Many thanks, President; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.193.0	Thank you, Vice President. Then we move on to the interventions of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.194.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, good afternoon to you all. First of all, as a Spanish resident in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, I am grateful that the Statute of Autonomy itself contains in its article 67.6.a that these decrees that are being promulgated as churros and not as a truly exceptional measure under the protection of a pandemic are done on behalf of the king, our head of state, the highest representative of the parliamentary monarchy that we have and under which we are governed all citizens, including those who have not yet ruled it and constantly question. Today we are presented to this Parliament with a new decree, on the 46th of 2020, to establish administrative, tax and intervention measures. During this pandemic, this extraordinary measure has become the legal remedy used by default and for effect. And of course a pandemic is as exceptional as it is undesirable, but after nine months of living with it there has been enough time to legislate properly and with a view to the medium and long term. And so we come to a new decree, dressed in the appearance of false goodism, which is typical of being at the door of Catalan elections, where we have to win with disguises a electorate lacking good news and wrapped in a sea of health, economic and social tragedies, already aggravated by itself during the last ten years by a political situation of dementia in Catalonia. And at the last minute we ran to legislate, in a finished and chaotic legislature, as the last ones in Catalonia have been. Martyrs? Citizens, who pay their taxes religiously and support the misdemeanours and misdemeanours of a disproportionate government. They have virtually all the economic and social sectors currently against, except for their servants, of course, those who, on the basis of favors, buy wills and even the soul, if necessary. And then it is necessary to get out of the joke, which wizard is third, a series of aids that will remain in this wet paper, which will last presumably until the 14-F, the theoretical date of the Catalan elections. Nine tragic months of pandemic have passed in which you signed together with the commons an increase in taxes, including inheritance, which collects the more people die. I remember that in Catalonia more than eight thousand people have died because of this tragedy, at least officially. And now you, Esquerra, Mr Aragonès, again support the general budgets of the State together with the PSOE and We can for this unusual rise in taxes, especially to the middle and working classes, those that in their dream nights seem to defend, but that with the policies that then apply in reality they crush their weakened and holed pockets by which escape the possibilities of a state of well-being and a project of life; a rise in taxes totally contrary to any logical and reasonable economic policy in a situation of recession, of falling GDP and of an unorbited debt such as that presented by Spain and of which Catalonia represents a very important percentage. And with this scenario you stage this theatrical work in the last Plenary, with the false appearance of granting these aids, which are late, bad and abstract, to alleviate the effects that a pandemic has caused on the economy and on citizens. In fact, you yourselves argue in the decree itself the need for an agile response by the Administration, without prejudice to compliance with the principle of legal certainty and at the same time demanding the minimum possible formalities. I suppose, after the scandal of aid to the self-employed, as a Galician, the image of the election must be improved, even if it is nine months after the start of a pandemic. You know perfectly well that the first two parts of the decree are hardly rebuttable. What parliamentary group would be against helping the economic sectors and speeding up the aid they receive? Who would be opposed to increasing the 100_per_cent tax on heritage transmissions and documented legal acts for the use of terraces by hotels and restaurants? They know perfectly well that no one. However, at the same time as approving these aid in November 2020, the Government of Catalonia has been completely closed to many economic sectors, and precisely one of them, that of the hotel industry, which they now intend to help with this tax and terrace subsidy. I advise you to take a walk through Madrid, the capital of Spain, and ask the hospitality sector. I'm sure he won't be booed there. At the same time, Mrs Colau, her partners in the budgets, is carrying the city of Barcelona with abusive measures of tax increases, for the hoteliers, putting obstacles to the car, the tourism sector and, in short, to the whole productive sector that does not maintain so much suckler and its very high salaries and high charges that, like her, they ceased to be anti-system to become the caste that they parodyed. And, by the way, Mr Aragonès, Vice-President and Counsellor of Economics, while we are being sold this image-washing campaign regarding the alleged support for hospitality, we have not seen you issue any press release condemning the attacks on hotel establishments throughout Catalonia because their employees or owners do not speak in Catalan. The same as the labels of the establishments, which I suppose now, with these aids that they sell, rather than fine them, will also be received by all those who do so in any of the three official languages that Catalonia has, whether Catalan, Spanish or Spider, right? On the other hand, they have received a complaint from Tecnomatic concerning the suspension of the deadlines for the expiry of authorisations in the field of gambling. Among other things, he points out that this suspension will cause them economic damage as a result of the impossibility of installing machines at the hotel premises. It seems that the regulatory decision does not respond to general interests or those of the sector, harming other operators and establishments, and benefiting other companies, you will know which ones. Moreover, you yourselves acknowledge in your reply that it favours nothing and even harms the holders of the hotels, with which both sectors and government agree that the injured are the hoteliers. Taking into account the trajectory of the last governments of the Generalitat, plagued with favouritism and fingers, the doubt is more than reasonable. And finally, an interventional measure is taken out of the sleeve, generating an ex post control, i.e., later – even though the saying says that it is better to prevent than to cure – and, moreover, by sampling, that they regulate superficially, ambiguously, without specifying for which cases yes, for which not; i.e., we leave bar free to arbitrariness. Fat view where we're interested and lynx eye over the dam. Special mention deserves the second additional provision, which allows to enable a lower scale of the body of interveners to perform the functions of the higher scale, no less than for four years. How long do you think the pandemic will last, men of faith? They thus reduce the technical quality of the intervention; indeed, those lucky for their fingers will be eternally grateful to them, with which the controls to be carried out will be of dubious rigour. In short, the electoral campaign has begun in Catalonia and, after highlighting the poor management of its rulers at the front, you have to run against the clock for the false washing of the image and get the room in the armchair or in the Falcon, if it is third. All for the cause. For all that, our parliamentary group, Ciutadans, will abstain in this decree since it is late, wrong, involved in a campaign that, as in so many other things, this Government will not comply. Although they say that hope is the last thing that is lost..., let us hope that something that is exposed here can really serve the economic and social fabric of Catalonia, which needs it so much right now. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.195.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.196.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President, deputies and deputies. Well, again, we find a government law decree, Decree number 46. I've already lost count. I don't know if my partner David Cid is already carrying how many... we know how many of them we're wearing, but in any case, more than a fortnight and sleeping on the forty decrees that the government has submitted to deal with this pandemic situation, right? With economic, social, health care measures... We've already said it, and we've been so approved with a young man, vice president, that we should try – and this is weeks ago – that we don't have any inconsistent decrees and that these decrees are dialogues without... I don't agree anymore, that we'd be asking for a lot and we're already finishing the legislature, but there's a certain dialogue with parliamentary groups. And actually this dialog is still out of place; it's like, their department doesn't spend a minute talking to groups, like at least to comment on the decrees; just the day before, they send us messages to see, so, what will our voting position be. Neither do they care very much, because in a message it is already seen that there is no tension or patience. And, obviously, that's not there, because you already count on the responsibility of opposition groups. That's it, Vice President. You're complaining here today that we don't want to wake up. Miri, we come here, more than forty decrees that have been passed on account of the opposition, not on account of the government's responsibility. And that's it. We could come here and vote against it all, and that's it, but we think the situation calls for some recollection from the government, even though you don't do things right. And you're not doing this anymore. Well, then very well; it was good for them, because they have approved all these decrees. But it seems to me that you should respond to opposition groups with another attitude; an attitude a little more dialogue. I am not saying that we need to see you, that probably, therefore, you have many tasks to develop because the moment is difficult, but your department's teams, which meet from time to time with economic spokespersons to comment on some decrees. I don't think it would be or is not asking for an excessive thing. In any case, they're not complete with what we approve in Parliament again, are they? One already, at the end of the term, feels so frustrated to feel so little help... because what is approved here is never complete. We said no approval of decrees or no presentation of unrelated decrees, dialogue and agreement with parliamentary groups on decrees, on this in concrete terms, and neither did we get out. So, I don't know if they're not interested, if they're already counting on the responsibility of the opposition, if it's a certain insecurity; I mean, I don't know, I don't know what it is, but the case is that we don't get out. And you, of course..., of course, maybe looking at the others we could say: "Well, it's what happens all the time, isn't it? ; the pandemic situation makes, listen'm, we don't have time to waste. But, of course, when you look at the Valencian Community, right? , that we always set an example, but we have it in mind, and more so, so we are very pleased with what its political leaders do, with this agreement, too, of coalition, like the one here – it happens that there are not so much messy, they go more to one –... but, of course, in Valencia they have presented different agreements of government, right? They have presented an agreement which is said: "Let us rise up, one in the social sphere with social and economic agents, an institution with assemblies and deputies. Here we are unable to make these agreements, we have not signed them, we have a document made by Coreco, which is inter-departmental, among us, but we are not able to agree with social and economic agents on a document with measures, nor are we able to do so in the institutional sphere, because here, to parliamentary groups, therefore, you have not been able to explain anything to us. In fact, the other day, yesterday – but so many things happen in this Chamber –..., yesterday they approved the conclusions of reconstruction, you were there; and we agreed on six parliamentary groups one hundred and four measures. Look if we can agree on groups. You're looking forward to it. You told Miquel Iceta that... well, she said... so read what she said; she said: "It's not that they don't want to wake up with us, it's that they don't want to wake up for the citizen. Ostres, what a shame, indeed. I heard it and thought, "I can't believe it. When Mr. Miquel Iceta gets his hand full, too, because he understands that the situation is difficult, and he's been told a lot of times, and it turns out that you're critical that we don't reach agreements. I don't know, we don't get to agree because you don't get to agree on what you get to. President Torra said at the health pact and we still hope, the paper, to see if it can be agreed. And, in turn, opposition groups, when we have had opportunities to agree, as in the case of the Reconstruction Commission, we have done. It's like I don't give so many lessons. Vice President, don't give so many lessons. And, of course, one of these measures that we adopted yesterday in the Reconstruction Commission, except for the four abstentions of the CUP, was that before the end of the disembarkation – to see if that is fulfilled – they would create a permanent committee between parliamentary groups and the government to discuss the European restructuring foundations. Because if one thing concerns opposition groups – now I'm talking about mine – it's going to happen or five projects will present the Government of the Generality, Catalonia, to these foundations. Because it is 140,000_million euros that will arrive in Spain and that will depend on the ability we have to present transformative projects that recover resources. So, we'd love to know. There was a commission, you appeared, we were just as cold, say; he didn't give us information. And one of the measures was this, creating this commission. We voted in favour, in addition, of its Republican Left Group and the Junts Group for Catalonia. So, miri, today is 16. So there's 15 days left. To see if we are able to approve this commission, which is a commission simply because it gives us information, explain to us what is being done by this advisory committee that you have created; in other words, information. Let's say something as basic as information. We're in a democracy, but, well, we have to say we need information. See if they complete this creation of the commission that established this Commission of the Reconstruction. Then, in this decree, he spoke of economic measures. We already do, they're always late and they're insufficient. It's true, they've made a register now. But, of course, the pandemic started March. We would understand that the month of March, April, May... Miri, until July things were complicated. But, man, November or December are still late. I mean, there might have been more efficient mechanisms set up a few months ago, right? After the disaster of the autonomies, you say well, they have now found a solution, which we hope will finally work. But always late and absolutely insufficient. Miri, I told you insufficiently because yesterday late – now it seems to me that I am the only Member of Parliament here who was in this meeting, but we went there all the parliamentary groups – we met with shopping malls. I liked it there, Vice President. Because sometimes you talk here..., and today, when you ask him about the balance of the mandate and you answer, he seems to be living another world; the situation is very difficult for many people. These stores, that have one or two stores in malls, four..., or one, huh? , just..., I mean it's not like they're big entrepreneurs, they're stockbrokers who decided one day that, in order to keep the botiga on the Grand de Gràcia street, so they had it on the Diagonal Island. So, listen, they're... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I'm sorry, there was Mr. Rodriguez – Santi, forgive me, who I've lost track of now – there was also there, and he knows how angry they were. Because, first of all, they didn't understand why they were locked up and not, in change, they were locked up big commercial establishments, and, in change, yes, the malls, some that are in the open air. No one had given them any explanation; they could not have talked to the government, and obviously they were not compensated. And you know what yours was for? Can't keep working normally, because, listening to epidemiological data, they say: "Let's see if two days from now they're going back to hiding without compensation. That's what it can't be. First we need to be able to explain well and give arguments, arguments that convince the economic activity of why it stands, and then put compensatory measures. Then you will be able to say to me: "Well, of course, there is not enough resources. Well, on this subject we won't agree. Because you have rejected 3,200_million euros from the State through Covid funds. The State has donated €16,000_million to the autonomous communities – it is clear, if we want a decentralized state, and when the State sends it, it transfers resources to the communities, we say we don't have enough, or that it hasn't gone well, or that... –, 16,000, and 15,000 for ERTS; it's 31,000_million euros that the State has only put in these two measures. Well, where are these 3,200_million euros? Because we don't have the detail either. And, I also have to say, there are approved motions in this Parliament that say that before the end of the month of December you had to come to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to explain exactly these last transfers to what they were dedicating themselves to. I see we won't have this fate, either. Well, it's that things are not complete here and all with a normality that... I don't know. So good of your own legislature to change that. The case is that these €3,200_million do not know where we are, but it is clear that in aid to the sector they have not, because they have rejected very few, absolutely insufficient. Deficit object. You say, "Oh, well, listen, it's that, of course, the State warned in September. Well, listen, "The State warned in September... Jo..., there are things that surprise me. Or, we don't have a banner because the election board told us so because we don't want to complete, but then, now we can try to spend a little more, no, "because until September they didn't tell us. In some things we are very good minions and in others we are disobedients. Tell me where the criteria are, Vice-President, because, among other things, València has already said that it will reach 1 and a half with the deficit objective. They didn't want to spend. And I don't understand why. They didn't want to spend more – they didn't want to spend more. And the other day the data from the Bank of Spain on the debt of the autonomous communities came out and Catalonia is reducing the debt. It turns out that in this quarter, in which year goes, we have reduced almost 2_million euros in debt. And when you compare with other autonomous communities, well, we are reduced in a way, in comparison, exaggerated. Now it's not about reducing debt, now it's about spending and now it's about making more deficit targets, already covering the state, if he's told us. Don't get along, Vice President, don't get along. Because, of course, we always complain about each other. No, no, the others have transferred to us, which are the Spanish State..., has transferred to us 3,200_million euros; it has suspected, Europe, the fiscal rules; the State says "failure, that I will already cover it; I don't understand why it doesn't spend, why it replenishes the deficit and, moreover, why it replenishes the debt. We don't understand. And I hope someday I can give us some explanation. We understand it won't be until the 14th of February. I hope the citizens speak before and plant a change in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú - Puem, Mr David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.198.0	Well, thank you, President. Vice President, I don't know if it's forty-two – I don't think so at all – but it's more than forty decrees to manage the pandemic, isn't it? I think, on the one hand, it's reasonable. That is to say, I think it must be acknowledged that it is not easy to manage the health and economic crisis situation, that we are also experiencing an exceptional situation, and that it is therefore reasonable for the General to take decisions and perhaps to take them through decrees. Another thing is if it were to be forty. And I think there are two things that I do want to remember, which is... Or, I find missing – and we have translated it by active and passive, and we haven't gotten out – as in economic measures, a certain planning, a certain plan, a certain horizon. It's true it's difficult, why, isn't it? We've experienced the second one, we don't know if we're already living the third one, but I don't have the feeling that there's real planning on the part of the Generality to identify the most affected sectors and what measures are to be taken from the table. In fact, we have also said it actively and passively, that in the end they make the sense that we all believe in fruit, or I also say the decrees press wheel, that it is with very specific measures that are needed to place an announcement to move to the conjunction of citizenship that is making a concrete thing in that sector, but not from a real abyss on which..., or with a real impact and with a real priority in the sense of these economic measures, right? And then, too, it's referring now... or so, well, it's true, we negotiated the assumptions; I think we made a good deal. Lucky we have these assumptions this year, not just for the expense part, but also for the part, right? , fair and green tax reform. But this dialogue has not been repeated in the management of the economic and health crisis. I'll give you an anecdote, if you want, minor, but today at 6.42 a.m., which was already awake, I had a message to ask myself what we would vote on today's decree. I don't know if it's very reasonable, is it? And we haven't worked on the decree with some of the measures that are being taken or with some of the measures that are being taken from the table. Therefore, I believe that this set of related measures, which, moreover, do not exist this planning, which I think more often than not... I have said many times, I believe that many of the measures that have been taken have more to do with the need for a councillor or a councillor to make a press wheel than on the impact or in the planning that they may have or in the abst that they may have in certain sectors. And I'm in the second part. I think that this decree is also the show of a certain failure, like at least two failures, isn't it? And one has to see, for example, with the management of help to the autonomous. And I'll also give him that same example I'm giving him now. I have the feeling that in your first moment you wanted to make an announcement that there was a certain support for self-government on the part of the Generality, and there was a first game of 7.5_million euros before the summer, which quickly saw that it was short, that it already generated problems in its management. And I think then, don't I? With the logic of pre-election too, they tried to do an aid of 20_million euros, which I think was badly planned, which, moreover, well, provoked everything that it caused, because the situation that suffered thousands of autonomous people in Catalonia is very complicated, although it is true that, even if they say no, not only through the ERTOS but also with the benefits on the part of the State, there is a degree of coverage, but that – I think that with good criteria – it was compatible with other aid, with a difference, for example, from what they approved before the summer, it was compatible with the help of the State, it was generating a demand for more than 100_1,000 people who had this help, wasn't it? And in the end, you, before "the thing that had been set up, before the failure of the management of the Councillor of Treball, the fact that it cost him the resignation of the whole summit, not of the Councillor, I suppose because they wanted to stop it because they could not appoint a new Councillor or because it was in pre-electoral time and it was hardly left to stop, but they obviously ended up taking a measure of an impact..., which I believe is the great measure that they have taken, but forced by the situation, with an impact of 200_million euros. And this is the history of the management of the economic crisis and the health crisis they have made. Then, well, in the end..., or so on, the great measure that you can take is the story of a corrected fracture with a match of 200_million euros. Clearly, you said this morning: "It is not certain that we have had time to... – both things, isn't it? – "We haven't had time to spend what the State has authorized us to do because it was late. Look, I can recognize it, if it was for us – you know, we shared it – this decision – in fact, we fought it a lot from the government – we had it before. Ara, on the block. Is it to say, if it is possible to do an aid of 200_million euros in mid-November or, in this case, for example, at the beginning of disembarkation, is it to say, why have not other extraordinary measures been activated? I also told them before, that is to say, there is not one more euro, beyond what we agreed on in the presupposition..., which cost us God and help, and this also knows, that you are keeping help for the payment of the loguer, but there is no extraordinary measure..., only the one above the State, of the additional foundations of the State, but there is no more recourse by the Generality for the payment, for example, of help to the loguer for families who need it, which cannot arrive at the end of the month. This is what I said this morning, it is not music, it is not empty words in Parliament itself; we are talking about concrete people, concrete stories, concrete dramas. And, therefore, I don't understand why we're stuck in a deficit of 0.7. In fact, it's 0.7 for the sake of self-government, if not 0.6, because we're talking about about 200_million euros; every 200 and millions of euros is a tenth more than GDP. So what I don't understand and I don't understand is... and it's hard for me to say it here, but it's that, I mean, it seems more papist than the Pope, looks like the Catalan Mount. Or else, I'm telling you, the deficit targets are on the line and the Enabling Law is on the line. And I do not share, the policy of my parliamentary group does not share the economic policy that is being pursued. And, of course, the problem is that there are many autonomous communities. But I'm setting an example, because it's not the only one, but in Valencia..., not 1 and a half, Valencia will make a deficit of 2_per_cent. And the state will finance it there. Then we can discuss whether it's more complicated or not more complicated, and I know that I'm trying to be strict, I know that this can cause complicated situations of treasuries, that this requires a negotiation with the State, but the Generality knows that the State will finance this deficit, as it did 2019, and in some conditions better than what we would have if we went out to the market, as is the Generality's debt; and that's it. And it's also true, you... you didn't talk about it today, but you also remembered it: it's not just the 3,200_million euros Covid fund; there's another Covid fund by 2021. In fact, by 2021 it could make a 2.2 deficit. If there is the Covid fund, surely the recommendations on behalf of the Minister of Economy is that it does not reach 2,2, but it is a recommendation, it could even reach a deficit of 2,2, or more there. So, I don't understand why no measures are being taken, which you will have to take, because my question is..., you said today "we won't be shaking our ways if the week we are going to take a step back, because perhaps the health situation requires us, but this step back, my question is: will you have economic measures to support the sectors affected? Yes or no. Is there going to be this planning? Yes or no. So, that's before we find ourselves. And I, unfortunately, insist on it, I don't think they're making the decisions they're going to make. And then – I return a little to what I gave to the principle – we find ourselves basically with measures..., well, they may be fine; if we endorse that we can process this decree, because obviously, well, there are measures that they have felt, but they are symbolic measures. I mean, for example, I don't say they don't help, they help, but, for example, with tax subsidies, don't they? , about the imposition of documented legal acts for which the firaries are, well, that's a help, I don't say no, but I don't – you said it yourself – the situation. So, maybe you need to plan a direct help. And then, on the subject too – and I end up with this – of expenditure, of expenditure control. So, the intervention seems good to me, but I think it's a job that's going to be good. I'm saying that because I'm sure... I'm convinced that it's going to be okay and that, besides, the Generality Intervention's body is very tense. There was only one warning, which was also on the side of the Anti-Fraud Office, that a good part of the Generality's spending was concentrated on large private sector enterprises. Well, I think that this is also good that this is revised by the Intervention, but it would also be good that if this alarm was placed as at least on the part of the Anti-Fraud Office, then also from the Department of Economy it could be explained whether this has a certain reason or has no reason. In any case, I, as in the least, the only one who asks him is: if we go to new restrictions, that in parallel we have a plan of help from the real supply of restrictions, and I have the feeling that I have the margin to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP Crida - Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.200.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, we would focus more on the final part of this decree, which talks about pre-emptive intervention and its replacement for subsequent intervention. In this sense, the same decree tells us, in its statement of reasons, that in certain circumstances and with exceptional character, for the characteristics and nature of the operations or for the results of the controls carried out, it is possible to determine the application of the posterior control mode for matters or phases of a procedure to any entity of the Administration of the Generality and its public sector. We don't know very well in five cases, because it doesn't specify the decree. It says that the control of the intended intervention function can be modified for a later control, for the absolvement of the object that claims the decree, which is agility; and also because there is a lack of personal and material means. We understand that there is a lack of material and personal means to do this pre-emptive taxation and we believe that the object of the intervention will be strengthened, but we only recently got the Anti-Fraud Office's barometer on corruption, and the perception of more than 60_percent of the surveys was that in pandemic or emergency situations, such as a pandemic, there was an increase in the perception of the citizenry that there was a risk of corruption. And eliminating in certain cases, which we don't know what they are, pre-emptive intervention on the part of the Administration, does not seem a good solution to us. In fact, it says exactly: "It is urgent and necessary – say the same decree –" to regulate the abst of application of the manner of this control, its effects and at five times, procedures of the different administrative expedients is applicable, regardless of the legal formula of the body that is carrying out a certain expense. But how can it be that with this decree is not the abst rule of the application of the mode of this control? Are we asking, then, that we make a vote of confidence in the government and that it is the government that decides when to eliminate this predictable control, which is so characteristic of the administration right? If we defend, on many occasions, it was managed by a hundred_per_cent direct, provided, managed and publicly owned certain services, it is precisely because 45_per_cent of the Generality's assumption goes to public contract, and precisely what is characteristic of delegating a service to a private company is that it eliminates this requirement from the pre-taxation, and now we are also trying to eliminate from certain expenses that the Administration is carrying out in an emergency period. And we understand the urgency, we understand the situation of the department at these times, we empathize, and we know that it doesn't have to be easy to manage this situation, but we don't think it's the best solution. For another band, and after several decrees have been made with help from which first up is left with help, finally, this decree tries to set a little order. But, for example, you say that this pre-encryption process can be kept in place on the assumption that the presupposition of the convocation will be extended, and therefore, if there is a presuppositional extension of the convocation and you have not registered, you can no longer register there, which you look at, yet. But he says: "Or in the case that it is convoked later help with the same object and the same characteristics within the term of a year from the first convocation. This means that if I have not previously signed up for help, if another help comes out with the same object and features, in that same year, I can no longer choose this help, because I have no longer signed up for it. Or I guess I didn't get it right, and I need to get it straight, huh? And in this sense, if my personal circumstances have changed, I understand that I need to be able to access this help.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.201.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.202.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies. When Mrs Romero refers to the meeting we held with the representatives of the shopping mall shops, she has forgotten one thing, and it is to convey to her the sincere gratitude of the shops, the shopping malls, for the decree regulating the shops. It doesn't break down, it's irony. Because they say to us: « Now, thanks to the decree of the Government, we have to pay 50_percent of logger. On the first day we were able to negotiate and in many cases we paid zero. Zero. And now they're forced, thanks to the government's decree, to pay 50 percent of their time. But we go to the decree that we have today in our hands, the 46th. I'll talk to you... there are four elements basically. I want to talk about it, I want to emphasize it, in one concrete. I will refer to everyone, if time permits me, but one concrete one, that is this generosity of the Government in order to improve the cent_per_cent of the deposit of heritage transmissions and documented legal acts to the terraces of the bars. I also explain it; you explained it, I also explain it. The year 2018, this government, the one you run, and this councillor, his department, sent notifications to the assembly in Catalonia asking which restoration establishments had given permission to install terraces. When they held these lists, you sent them requests to the owners of the terraces of bars and restaurants demanding that, in addition to paying municipal taxes per occupation of public road, they pay to you the tax of property transfers and documented legal acts. Ah, it's okay. Therefore, what they have to do is not improve the cent_per_cent. What you have to do is stop charging the bar and the terraces for which you say it's an administrative concession, and it's not. It's a plea. And why am I telling you this? Because I've had the trouble of consulting with the rest of the communities. And the rest of the Spanish communities are not charged the tax of property transfers and documented legal acts to the terraces of bars and restaurants, because they consider it an offence, not an administrative concession. Therefore, what they should do is not increase the cent_per_cent, what they should do is make the money they have collected and never charge it more. Second question, in relation to machines. Miri, we can hear... - and in fact, you have your logic, huh? – during the first state of alarm, the royal state decree established the suspension of terms and, therefore, also affected the suspension of terms of everything that is suspected in this decree. But in the second state of alarm this does not provide for the royal decree of the State; then you replace it. It seems good until we see the conditions in which you do it. We can hear the suspension of these terms as establishments, bars and restaurants are completely closed. But when they're already open, no. That they're open with restriction of the flower? All right, let's do a pro rata for the restriction of expansion and calculate the time limit for the suspension of terms. But no, no, you do say: "This second state of alarm ends on May 9th; the validity of this suspension, until June 30th. And when one goes to the judicial report to see how they argue this extension of the suspension, they say: "for legal certainty. Ah. By legal certainty, by whom? Because here there are various actors in the game. The same establishments, which lose bargaining capacity with machine entrepreneurs; machine entrepreneurs who have machines in an establishment, and machine entrepreneurs who do not have machines, would want to install machines. So, you guys have a moment to think about who you're affecting and who you're benefiting from all this? I'm sure he didn't. They've taken a measure that's... I think it doesn't have..., it's out of the abst of any logic. About the registry of autonomes. I'll just say – because we haven't talked much and we haven't talked about the rest of the doorman –: if you've been forced to do this register, and therefore, for the sake of speed, you've been forced to suspend other aids, and you've been forced to establish this registry and, therefore, to extend a little longer the time limit for these aids, it's due to your lack of forecast and planning. If you, on the way in, had made an accurate planning, today we would not be in this situation, nor did the autonomies suffer what they suffered in the last call. And I finish – and listen well, because this will not have precedents – in relation to the proposal on intervention and subsequent control, I fully subscribe to what the UPC spokesman said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.204.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. Well, it is certainly the last intervention that I will bring to the end of this legislature and, therefore, as some other companies and companies have already done, I would like to begin this intervention by recalling the Jewish Carmel Forcadell, President of the Parliament, who today carries a thousand days undertaken to allow democracy, to allow freedom of expression in this Parliament, to lead the independent civil society in a state that continues to repress political dissent. A thousand days of democratic shame. Well, before we started talking concretely about the decree and, as always, we opened very interesting debates in economic terms and made an appreciation of it. Someone commented that Valencia was planning to complete the exercise in a deficit of 1,9, deien. L'Airef, on the 3rd of December, Mrs. Cristina Herrero ugly public that her forecasts were that ended in 1.6. We accept that you have more accurate information than the Airef and that the exercise will end in 1.9. They'll take it. Do you know what was the problem with the Valencian Community, the Valencian Country, last year? In a 1.94_per_cent. According to the forecasts of the Airef, the Valencian Community, the Valencian Country, will generate less deficit than the one that generated the past year. So it seems to me that it's good, too, contextualizing things. And the Catalan community, the Government of Catalonia, will end up in more difficulty than last year. Therefore, we will put more resources at the disposal of the citizenry to deal with this pandemic situation. On the other hand, as has already been discussed and discussed on the specific content of the decree, which has already been mentioned are three chapters incorporating administrative character measures, tax character measures which attempt to support one of the most punishing sectors of our economy, which is the hospitality sector, and also measures to facilitate the intervention of the General Administration. In the end we have to sort out: either we want answers and, therefore, agility, or we want procedures done that will limit us and restrict our answers. As has also been said and as is usual in the drawings of laws decrees – I don't know if they are forty or forty-one –, as has already been mentioned by some of the interveners, in all the laws decrees that have been approved incorporating a whole package of ad hoc measures to give response to the needs that each week have appeared as a consequence of the economic crisis and the social crisis of the pandemic. Every week there are nine needs and nine requests, not only from the Government of the Generality, but from the society of our country. And it seems to me that it is good, that it is essential that the government work every week, do its work and bring here proposals of better, proposals to try to resolve and give answer to all these situations that appeared every week. And that's obvious that she does and that she's straining the Public Administration's seams on terms and ability to respond and obviously also straines the Government of Catalonia's customs in the economic sphere. I'm taking a little rest from some of these measures very briefly. I'll start at the end. Third chapter. It may seem instrumental, but I insist: to allege the bottlenecks of the Public Administration and, in this concrete case, the previous intervention is one of the most significant bottlenecks at a time when spending in some concrete departments – which we already know are – has increased exponentially and has not increased exponentially the human resources of the intervention of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, it is imperative that we eliminate these Botella hills if we are to arrive in time to help the citizens of our country. According to the chapter: it introduces a whole series of tax measures that try to improve the cent_per_cent and help the establishments, the hostelry, in various areas. We will not go into the debate as to whether taxes and taxes are necessary or not. Obviously, each shield has its own position and is perfectly defendable. In any case, we will all agree that it is necessary that, at a time when the sector is patenting, tax relief measures should be put into effect. Measures which, as has also been explained, are complemented by measures that will complete our meetings and try to help the inn sector as well. It would be good if the State didn't take any. It would be good if the State did not take any of the support, too, to the outside world, beyond raising their quotas. The third article of this first chapter also incorporates, as has also been explained, measures that allow, also, to allege the taxes paid by hotel establishments in the field of recreational machinery and also to allege and reduce administrative management at a time when it seems to me that it is a very, very appropriate measure. On this occasion, I am focusing on the main part of the first two articles of the first chapter, which, in short, is the substantial part of the decree which is now being brought to this Parliament's proposal for its validation. It is substantial because it brings to completion a very precise regulation of this pre-registration mechanism, but it is also substantial because it forms part of a whole process, of a whole process, of a whole set of measures that have allowed the Government of Catalonia to end by articulating the most ambitious measure of support for autonomous people, workers and workers of micro-enterprises and micro-cooperatives in our country. The most ambitious measure he's taken to term. And, as always, the mantra of opposition groups is what we feel here every 15 days: it comes late, badly, it's insufficient, it's improvised... This is happening again every 15 days. That's right, we're cool. It's a royal monarchic decree. It is a very adjunct element for a debate that incorporates tax measures to appeal to a monarchy that has demonstrated and is accused and is fleeing – this one is fleeing – for black targets, tax fraud measures and accusations of all kinds in the matter of economic crimes – a lot of reference is made to it in a debate like today. In any case, I have to recognize them, it is true, in this concrete debate there is a point of certainty: what is being done today on the part of the Government is correcting something that did not work well, a first call, that were given explanations, they apologized and it was corrected, and it was corrected. And in the same way that it is necessary to recognize that at the time things didn't work out as they were supposed to, today it is necessary to recognize that the Government of Catalonia has had the ability to give response to 132,000 people– 132,000 – a much higher figure than the Administration of the Generality, in its business support environment, is accustomed to it. And it is important: the figures donated by the department speak of eighty-thousand of these affected people who during the first nine months of the year will have net yields below five thousand euros– less than 5,000 euros. Therefore, two thousand euros for these people are very important. For most of these eighty-thousand people in the conjunction of 132,000 we are talking about an increase in their income above 50_per_cent. Therefore, it is a very important measure that is now being implemented as a package of measures. This is one of the fish, of the measures that have allowed the Government of Catalonia to carry out an initiative of these characteristics. It's important that when a person makes a mistake..., rectify quickly, improve and re-act. And it is also good that these groups of this chamber that put in doubt those measures that they took to rectify, and that they put in doubt in a very strong way in this chamber, perhaps it is also good that they recognize that those measures were certainly not so misguided as some here stated in a very strong way. In any case, the government is – it is important – at the side of the sectors, different from others. And, unfortunately, as we have seen, in this line of help and in the register that has been carried out there are hundreds of thousands of people in our country, self-employed and workers, who are patenting a lot. And that's why you deserve a lot more, even though the government of Catalonia is doing what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing next to the city, what they're doing next to those people who are most painted these days. And as we have explained, we have decreed, step by step, little by little, here in this Parliament, trying to help in what the Government of Catalonia does, little by little, in these decrees, trying to help this complicated and difficult way to follow a little less complicated and a little less difficult for the citizenship of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Marta Madrenas has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.206.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, fellow Members... In fact, today is also the last intervention I'm going to make from this Faristol and, therefore, they will already allow me to possibly have a little more absorptive than to censure myself exclusively to this decree which today is presented for validation. And it's that it's validated – it's been explained very well by all the Members who preceded me – this decree of urgent measures that, in fact, is true and has been recognized by the same Vice-President, that it's true that they are not too far off, that they are a great drop, and, precisely, that they allow me to explain that they are, are examples of the limits, of the limitations we have from this country to minimize the effects, for example, of the pandemic. They are measures that will be useful, and I think we have all agreed, and in this sense, obviously, that Juntes for Catalonia will give it all the support. But they are also measures that make clear the very little room for manoeuvre we have in Catalonia to help the sectors most affected by the crisis. The management of the pandemic is the practical demonstration of why we need independence from Catalonia. Without state aids, without state funding, we cannot offer state aid to the citizenry or to our product fabric. We're part of a state, the Spanish, that when the first wave began, it posed in front of all the military, on television, and when they withdrew, it also withdrew the State, and it's quite gone. And that's what happens to all the citizens of Catalonia, the independenceists and the non-independenceists. Many states of the European Union have gone to the European Stability Mechanism, the Mede, to finance rescue measures from their economies while pandemics last – President Torra himself called on President Sánchez to do so insistently. And it's that Spain is a few states that have allowed the luxury of not resorting to this credit, isn't it? And now that money is more needed than ever in the street – and now everyone is talking about it too – so they surprise a lot, don't they? Because we already know there's no other secret than the state's astronomical deficit. But you go here so that one more invoice... we find ourselves with one more invoice that the citizens of Catalonia have to pay to continue being part of this Spanish State. While Europe is injecting money into the economy, here, therefore, they are focusing on risks and contradictions with healthcare security, and situations need to be speeded up so that this balance can be found because businesses, because self-governments can survive, and in direct help accounts what is done from the State is also to carry fiscal effort on citizenship and on businesses and on self-governments. And in which they have been uncertain, and it is true, it is on the subject of ERTOs, but it also managed it so it has also been quite bad and it has assumed things for many families that we have had to deal with from the local world. The government is the most progressive in history, man, the one that has made progress are taxes, military spending and allocation to the Royal House, but not the one that really needs citizenship. And it's that I understand that Spain is a failed state, and that's why so many Catalans have decided to do our own state, and that it will also have virtues and defects, sure, like all states, but as we will not have to go through the envy of seeing what they can do or what they do from other European states, unlike what the Spanish state does, like, for example, Germany, is that we all already know, with these 75_per_cent help to businesses, that 75_per_cent of billing in these businesses that have had to close their business. They don't do banks, they don't do lands, they don't do their autonomy, they do states, and we're still waiting here. And yet recriminating, with the lack of funding we have and without proper tools, they still come to recriminate here that why they do not take what measures. Home, honestly, I think we could go to this country – and I won't – a lot of help and support and rescue with public funds in the different basic sectors, such as hospitality, tourism, culture, to the rest of the European Union. And from the generality, it's certain that a lot of effort is being made to help businesses and local people because this economic wheel is not collapsing, to help all families, people, too. And it's true that it's what it can do, it's that I just need to see the numbers. And who doesn't want to recognize this, so he's making a big mistake and he's cheating on his report, and so today we're going back to seeing where those limits are. And it is today, with the measures that we are discussing, precisely, that they are a better, but we understand that in any case they are the decisive best, a definitive solution, in any case to help neither the citizenry nor the businesses. And this is the drama. And this is the drama I need to recognize here today. And I repeat again that this is my last intervention in this mandate, in this Faristol. It has been a mandate where from the different powers of the State it has made very clear which are our limits. The Spanish State considers that sovereignty does not fall into this Parliament, that we represent the people, no, it does not, but rather in some other places, in some centers of power that are not here. We have suffered with the frustrated State, we have suffered during the U of October parliamentary term, and it has returned to make it clear, mostly clear, in this mandate. From the outside it is said who can, who cannot be chosen president, at what point, which laws we approve can be applied or cannot be applied and even if censorship applies to proposals and resolutions published and approved for this same Ple. And today I feel obliged, precisely, because it is my last full and because I want it to be in the Minutes of Parliament, I want to make clear a series of demands and I think it is necessary and important that it is done. And it is that I want to claim that the legitimate president of this country is the very honorable president Carles Puigdemont, that the Spanish State has as hostages to citizens and citizens who compromise with this country and with democracy and with individual and collective freedoms and who are political prisoners and prisoners, because they have not committed any crime. And I also want to make it clear that the Spanish State is paying for political dissent, freedom of expression and thought with imprisonment, exile and repression. And finally, that the Spanish State does not just do what it is obliged to do to protect Catalan culture and language, but attacks them and continues to do so now. But this is Parliament and here we come to talk, but we also come to fulfill our commitments to citizenship. This decree that we are validating today is the demonstration, again, of the shortcomings that this country has. We can talk a lot, but decide very little, and at times as difficult as the present, when the citizenry asks us for action, when we all want to act, we don't have the tools to do it. That's why we need a summer. I cannot end without mentioning the great honor, the immense honor that has been for me to represent the Gironinian communities and to give sight to the local world of this country, as well as the pride that has meant for me to be part of this parliamentary group. I thank all my companies and companies, which we have almost formed as a family, but also all the members of the team, of workers, all the professionals that we make up this great team of Together and, therefore, many thanks and so on. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.207.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate respects this point of the order of the day, let's move on to the next, as this, as the rest, will vote later. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of government action]] [[302-00272/12]] So, let's move on to the twenty-three point, which is the subsequent motion in the Government's inquiry into the balance of government action, a motion that has been presented to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To defend her, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.208.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, have done relatively little – we reminded the question – produced the ephemery of the elections of 28 November 2010. Some elections that involved a change of political cycle, certainly after which it was the one that with remarkable doses of petulance was characterized by the student president Arthur but as the government of the best. To that government of the best, which certainly was not, or which in any case was more a propaganda claim than not the correspondence with reality – at least from our modest point of view – the two worst governments that we have had since the restoration of the Government of Catalonia have succeeded. And I think that exactly this reminder of this decade has passed, because I think that a decade is a reasonable time to be able to turn the view back and see what has been the social, economic, political evolution of the country and, therefore, what is the arrival that leaves this success of governments that have occurred from 2010 to the present. And I think that this decade, which some have qualified as the lost decade, deserves another qualification: it has been a catastrophic decade. It's mirror from the point of view that it's mirror. From the point of view of the evolution of the social indicators of the country, from the point of view of the economic policies, which, certainly, have had a remarkable continuity between the time when Arthur Mas was raised in the People's Party, by Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, and at the time when Esquerra Republicana had some participation in the Government, still supporting it or incorporating it 'directly. And, to be sure, from the political and institutional point of view, a division and polarization as probably had not been seen in the previous decades, and a very negative balance – as I will say – not only from the point of view, I think, of those we have been in opposition in this decade, but I believe that even from the point of view of those who have been in the government there could be no other conclusion that it has been catastrophic from the political point of view, which has passed. And it's that we don't get weird, because we believe that what characterized these two last governments, also this last, on which the youth focuses, is one of the worst combinations there can be in politics: the combination of innateness and sectarianism. Now it could be easy to joke that the two members of the coalition have brought different doses of innateness and sectarianism. But I think it's been well distributed. From the point of view of inanitity, we had occasion in the inquiry to make a rest of the indicators of public policies, of evaluation of public policies, that from our point of view they believed that the Government had not been able to pull forward so much with its own government programs, not with regard to the ultimate political objectives, which they proclaim as the political tape, but with a government program. Therefore, they have not only not been able to pull forward the government program, it is not even a standard plan. The balance of this government's legislative initiative is poor, and from the point of view of production, of regulatory quality, too, very poor. The balance of the ability to deploy regulations, to make decrees, to make regulations is also poor. The balance of the degree of implementation of the agreements adopted for this chamber, as it stands in committee, leaves much to be desired. There are many occasions when this Parliament has had to reiterate resolutions that it had already approved to ask the Government that on the second or the third time it does pay attention to what gave it the chamber. Interlocution with the rest of parliamentary groups or with social workers has left much to be desired. As has been said in the previous debate, in the decree, there have been many initiatives by different parliamentary groups of this chamber or the chamber in general that the Government has let go without taking on the offers of country agreements, strategic agreements, and, finally, has absolutely given up trying to do what governments should do more than promote their political project, which is to try to join the country's maximum forces of political and social agents with projects that can be shared in creating and generating consensus. They have done all the opposite; it is to remain in an absolutely sectarian and intransigent attitude, practically denying the existence of a half of the country and referring only to its own political space, the support spaces they sought. And what's worse, at the worst of times, at the moment when a government is most lacking, we didn't have a government, but two committees of campaigning in the face of different departments that were looking for brega, that were vigilant about which of them and that were giving small tips, went to say under the table, but actually every time more public, more notoriety, and, finally, through communication means and press wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.209.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.210.0	That's what we've had. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.211.0	Thank you. Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.212.0	Thank you, President. I think this young man may be a repeater, but I think that, don't I? She's a young man who's been picking up the feeling and, I'd say, the combination of the debates we've been having in the legislature. He spent this morning in the control session with various motions presented to the government balance. And I believe that, in the end, there is a shared feeling for the different groups in the chamber that we are ahead of a decade lost by the current majority of the government. It is true that it began initially with the support of the Popular Party, but I believe that there have been two years lost in economic policies centered on the retail and austerity and then also in a situation of political blockade in Catalonia and of a certain sense on the part of the Catalan people of the end of the stage and of feeling of decay and loss... well, a certain dynamism or a certain ability to project themselves into the future, of a certain horizon of hope that had been felt or that had always been projected from Catalonia and from its self-government. I also have the feeling that these three years have surely been the highest expression of this, of this sense of blocking. Moreover, I believe that many of the times we have felt that the most important thing is the electoral battle in independence rather than the real life of citizens and their day-to-day lives. And I also insisted this morning, when I asked the vice president, that in the end we are not talking only about empty words or a certain report or a certain music in the Parliament of Catalonia, but that it has a real impact on the lives of thousands and thousands of people who have very concrete situations. And that in the end, right? , that you do not agree, for example, about how restrictions should be or not in the catering sector and whether or not you have to help it, this affects thousands of people who cannot open their business, workers and workers who do not know if they will be able to pay for their loggers, because they do not know if they will enter or not enter at the end of the month, right? I have the feeling that these three years have been the maximum expression of a certain disconnection, probably not of the Government, but of the same Parliament of Catalonia, of the real life of citizens and citizens. And more you have inaugurated or perhaps reconfirmed a certain way of governing that is also that what happens, is debate or even approval of the Parliament of Catalonia, no matter – it doesn't matter. I mean, well, I'm sure not in the front line, but I remember a few times that they might be a long way away, right? When there was another majority of government that was a government of the left. I believe that President Maragall's government has been the best government ever in this country. But, anyway, right? I remember you didn't lose a vote in this Parliament. Not one. Then they give it to the Dragon Khan. So, just like this government is the Shambhala multiplied by three, the Ferrari Land and the Hard Rock that they want to make with the biggest casino in Europe. They are all thematic parks in Europe located within the Government of the Generality. Because, of course, if the left-wing government was the Khan Dragon, then I don't know what you are, do I? But I'm saying it because it looked like the world was over. And, fully, you lose motions presented by the different opposition groups that theoretically link the government in certain decisions and which you then repeatedly incomplete as if nothing happened. And, of course, my question is: if we ask the citizen that, theoretically, they have to act responsibly and that the laws approved by the Parliament of Catalonia are to be completed, who feels, for example, that we here agree that 061_is to be free and that it affects thousands of people who probably these days are calling 061 and then seeing how they cover the tricks at 061. What we approve, for example, is that the contract of Ferrovial must be terminated because we defend that there must be a public health that must be protected and that the fight against the pandemic must be done through the reinforcement of public health, and you do not just terminate the contract to Ferrovial, but increase it to 50_million euros. And that's an explanation of what this government stands for, which I think doesn't matter, doesn't matter, and that basically it's just focused on a great battle between whether in the end the president is Aragonès or if the president is Borrás, and if the president, I don't know if Budó or Canadell – and I put my hands on the head –, right? Or, I don't know, someone from the Republican Left Bank. And in the end it's so much. I think we've reached the end of the stage. I wish and hope – and in this I do differ a lot – that the process is over, that it has nothing to do with independence, but that it is over once and for all the process and that there is a political change in Catalonia, because this is untenable for the towns and cities of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.213.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.214.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Well, we from my group, from Citizens, do not see any greater problems with this motion presented today by the Socialist Group, above all, basically, because it has a wording that, truth, concrete little, Mr Pedret. And concretely so little to the point that even to us there is also some doubt that lack of concreteness. For example, in point 6, when the Socialist Party talks about dialogue, of course, we ask ourselves: dialogue with whom? Because normally when socialists talk about dialogue it's not dialogue with everyone, it's just dialogue with separatism. And to his boss, Mr. Sánchez, I refer, he has made it very clear to us. For example, they also talk in point 6 of reforms for social coexistence. What do they mean? What are reforms, for example, of the law of the crime of sedition? As you've been pushing since Congress. And it is also that the Minister of Justice has openly recognized it. I don't know, do you mean with these kinds of reforms to grant a pardon, perhaps, to Mr Junqueras and the rest of the people who are right now in jail for committing very serious crimes here in 2017? The truth is, I have doubts. And I also have to tell you that we are surprised by some of the disconformities shown by the Socialist Party now with this government, right? For example, says the Socialist Party that recognizes that the government has not complied with the government plan or the regulatory plan, notes the government's little legislative activity, that the necessary regulations have not been developed to implement certain laws – that this is something that we have been demanding from Citizens since minute one, years ago. You also acknowledge in this motion that the Government has overturned the mandates of this Parliament by not implementing the resolutions and motions that we have adopted. The Socialist Party also recognizes in this motion the absence of dialogue and dialogue between the Executive and even the contempt that is being given to the proposals of the different groups in matters of general interest – and I therefore set as an example all the measures related to the pandemic of the Covid-19 – and even speak in this motion of erosion and degradation of the institutions of the Generalitat, "depreciated and patrimonialized by the political formations that lead it. This is, moreover, literal of his motion. Of course, I want to stop myself especially at this last point, because the formations that lead the Generalitat are Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana. I mean, that nasty management that you come here to denounce today with this motion has been carried out by Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana. And maybe this thing I'm doing right now looks like a little Perogrullo, doesn't it? It's obvious, but I think it's important to reschedule it. Why? Well, first of all because you, the Socialist Party, have been accomplices to this government. I would like to remind you that you had the opportunity to censure Mr Torra and this Government now a year ago with a motion of censure that we tabled from my group and in which we already saw each and every one of these points that you bring here today in this motion. What happened back then? What did Mr.Iceta and the Socialist Party do? Well, what he always does. You have set aside and whitewashed that harmful government management that you now recognize in this motion. Wow, what a coincidence! I mean, when we go to elections then yes, but when they had the chance they decided to support Mr. Torra and his government. They no longer legislated then, there was no dialogue then, they already believed that the institutions were theirs, they detested them then and used them for their own interests, but it seems to you at that time that it did not seem so serious. All this which they now denounce in this motion was already a year ago. And you didn't live up to the circumstances and nothing makes us think you're going to be now. That, on the one hand. But it is that you also criticize the mismanagement of this government, I insist, formed by Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, which are parties with which you govern in numerous municipalities of Catalonia. You, for example, govern with Junts per Catalunya in the Barcelona Diputation. By the way, presided over by Mrs Marín, who is apparently under suspicion of alleged corruption. And we're still missing Mr. Iceta's explanations on this. You have also been looking for partners in Esquerra Republicana in Madrid. I mean, according to your motion, it's pretty bad, huh? But... it's just that I really, really, the joke explains itself. I mean, here you do everything very badly, but when it comes to choosing partner in Madrid then you go with Republican Left. And it's also that you're already clearing the ground for a possible tripartite after 14-F. You're a little like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, aren't you? That is, in the plenary of Parliament, how bad are those of the Republican Left, in the Congress of Deputies, what a man of state is Rufián. Here in the plenary of the Republican Left Parliament has done nothing for the good of Catalans, but in the Congress of Deputies we are told by Mrs Calvo that the best solution for Catalonia is to listen to Republican Left. So, what are we left with, Socialist Party gentlemen, are they good or are they bad? Do you like Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya as they rule because they go with them, they choose them as partners? I'll tell him. Look, you're good when you need to invest President Pedro Sánchez and approve budgets and you're bad when you need to scratch votes in the constitutionalist electorate. The good thing about all this is that they see the plumer and they don't cheat on anyone anymore. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Maria Sirvent has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.216.0	Yes; first of all, I would like to show our solidarity with Dani Gallardo, who today we know has been sentenced to four and a half years in prison to show his solidarity with the Catalan people. Saying that and respecting the motion we are debating today, saying that this motion is a motion that we would certainly agree with most of the opposition, because in the end it notes the blatant lack of support that the government has had towards this chamber and towards this Parliament. We have approved – and we have done so for the vast majority, including with the support of the government groups – that the government would suspend the agents involved in the racist aggression of the Bages. The agents continue to receive public support and, therefore, we continue to promote institutional racism from this institution. Yes, one of the groups that supports the government is chairing a commission, which is sincerely very interesting, to try to deal with institutional racism. But the government is still acting against what this Parliament decides. Reference has also been made in this Parliament and this House – including with the groups supporting the Government – approves the termination of the contract with Ferrovial, an IBEX 35 company that puts its stakes on our public health and does as important a job as that of the trackers. What did the government do? Omitting what this chamber has decided. That's right, forty decrees have already been passed for the government with these measures that the deputy company of Catalonia in Comú names all-fruits. But on the other hand, when we approve this Parliament, when we work together and which, moreover, has a support of a large majority of the parliamentary forces of this chamber, which are very diverse, the Government does not even listen to it. Avoid the holder, yes, because he approves the measures that we propose in this chamber, but, in change, does not apply them. So we want less words and more facts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.217.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia is now the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.218.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the truth is that it must be one of the first times that we happen to have an exhibition of Mr. Pedret's motility, which is used to being contained, practically motivates us to change the vote. It won't happen, because in the end you have to vote for a text that says what you say, and that we share. But, of course, it's that Mr. Pedret is trying to make believe that what happened to Spain, Catalonia, has nothing to do with the PSC. Nothing to see. That is to say, the political party that since the transition to Spain together has ruled Catalonia, the longer it has been to the Moncloa government and has also had a large single government in Catalonia, turns out it has nothing to do with what has happened. That's all the others' fault, and he said it explicitly, quite a bit rigorous. Because, of course, when it comes to the Statute and the conflict – I won't go in there, because each has its own vision – but it is that before the Statute we held the Tinnell Pact, which was the first time since the Transition that a democratic political formation of any type of dialect was born – after it blamed us. Before the economic crisis of the year 10 there was the denial of Mr Zapatero. And before the pandemic, Mr. Sánchez was already carrying a destructive year's occupation in Spain, much above the European media. That's to say, everyone we've got right now can blame themselves. The fact that you can't pretend is that it's all the rest of the Socialist Party's fault. It's your turn, too, which we've done here in Catalonia a while ago, to make a self-criticism. They never do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.219.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Adriana Delgado has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.220.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, councillor. Well, this SGP motion on the balance of the general government policy we believe – and we believe it is obvious – that it is an electoralist movement, it is the "not extreme of the "no, a clear demonstration of the unwillingness of which it is claimed that they have exercised this legislature here in Parliament with the proposals of the government, with an attitude of disagreement and lack of collaboration to which Vice-President Aragonès has already referred this morning. While trying to make an open and generous reading, it has been impossible for us to present any points, because, as I said, this text does not seek dialogue or understanding, but to maintain the permanent opposition to which we have been accustomed and to attack once more the Government of the Generality at the gates of the end of the legislature and at the elections in sight, avoiding – and even so the deputy of the People's Party refers – his own responsibilities, of the most common, as we have seen, therefore, with the accepted points. I'm sure we can improve a lot on the government's parties and make this coalition, but I don't know if you're two as representatives of these two groups, so the example of the coalition to follow, also taking into account what happens to the Spanish government. The willingness of the government and of the groups that we support it is certain that it was legislatively more ambitious, and we have to say that legislative activity, there has been, according to the plan of government. It's been legislated, it's been governed, it's been governed. All this in a political situation of repression and in the current context of health, economic and social crisis. In this simplistic and easy-to-attack value, few have taken into account that this legislature began after 155, some imposed elections, suspension of deputies, constitution of conditioned government, and ends – after a 2019 with an acceleration of legislative activity, which there was – with more repression, the inability of President Torra and a worldwide pandemic to which he has given himself and is giving himself an answer. In this context, therefore, it has worked, moreover, to reverse the policies of the retail trades, placing people in the center, as it is proving more than ever with the management of the pandemic. After better indications at the end of 2019 that the economy and welfare were growing, we find ourselves in a situation of absolute uncertainty that has affected and is affecting all areas of society. And if he's in front of it, he's running for everybody. It is much more complicated, moreover, to govern in an exceptional situation like the current one with a structural situation of fiscal deficit that we have experienced years ago, with continuous incompliments on the part of the central government and with the repression of the Spanish State, a state that is against us. There was no dialog in the young man, they say. In the debate and approval of the assumptions? In support of the increase in the funding of the Catalan health system? They've eroded and degraded institutions, they say. With one state against, bringing the laws approved by Parliament, its sovereignty of the Catalan people, to the Constitutional Court? "Reconstructing cohesion after a politically very conflicting decade. A decade. And at what point do they pose the ingenuity of this calendar? In June 2010, with the Constitutional Court's ruling against the Statute approved by Parliament and ratified in reference to 74_percent of voters? We, Esquerra, do believe in institutions, in parliamentarianism, to arrive, as the advisor and company Bernat Sole said yesterday, to great agreement and consensus. We respect the will of the majority, from democratic mandates to ballot boxes. We believe in the dialogue for the political and peaceful resolution of legitimate political conflicts before the judicialization of politics. And, yes, we do so with the objective of achieving independence, a similar state, because we believe that the Catalan Republic is precisely the tool to be used for economic and social reconstruction, to achieve greater welfare, better and equal opportunities for everyone, cohesion, more social rights, from plurality and cross-cutting. And lastly, I will take advantage of these seconds to take over, to take over the Parliament, all the companies. It's my last intervention at the Faristol. The February of 2021, coinciding precisely with the own elections, will be five years since I joined the Parliament of Catalonia as a Member. It has been a very intense experience, I have had the honour and pride to be able to work for my country from various backgrounds, to be part of the Bureau of Parliament, to make many territories and to live exceptional moments. I have tried to do the best I can, seeking agreements, seeking understandings, maintaining the values of republicanism. I want to thank the confidence of Esquerra, the support of the parliamentary group, of so many people with whom I found myself on this path, which I continue, to the head of the Sant Vicenç de Castellet Assembly, to try to transform society and which is more equitable and fairer. Thank you very much also to all the staff of Parliament, which always makes everything easier for us. And, above all, to end, a record for the imprisoned and retaliated companies, with whom I also shared this path, especially today for President Forcadell, who has been unjustly locked in prison for a thousand days. All of you, thank you very much, you're very lucky. It was a pleasure and an honor. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr. Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.222.0	Thank you, President. Counselrera, MPs, MPs, the enyorat Gabo, Gabriel García Márquez, said remembering is easy for those who have memory, but that, above all, forgetting is impossible for people who have color. It's always important to know where we're coming from to find out where we're going, and that's why it's illustrated that this young man starts with a finding we share. He said: "The Government of the Generality nailed the dotzene legislature with a high degree of failure. Certainly, a nuclear, central and painful failure, because the government program granted for Junts for Catalonia and for the Republican Left had two central points: the restoration of the legitimate government of Catalonia and the completion of the mandate of the U of October. Both points present a very high degree of failure. The first, because a good part of this chamber was bent to the threats of the 155 block and to the Spanish injustice when it did not allow the investiture of President Carles Puigdemont. There we saw a little bit of the way of this legislature; a legislature on Together for Catalonia has been alone, too alone, in defending the need to restore the government of President Puigdemont, the government of the U of October. And from here the creature weeps. This is the main lack of political life in Catalonia: popular sovereignty is not respected, it is not respected in civil and political rights, in individual action or in the collective. And in the absence of democracy neither this nor this parliament can work well. Despite everything, we've been coughing. We have focused on the field of politics to make proposals to resolve the political conflict; a conflict that is clearly political, exclusively political, and that the proponents, the socialists, with Ciutadans and the People's Party, have been brutish since the very moment of the U of October, because they were not willing to take on or allow so much democracy, and their response was an unjustifiable violence that we would never forget. We'll never forget it. Nor will we forget the enormous victory that meant a society that is once and for all impoverished with a civic, peaceful and democratic gesture that has remained for the history of the best examples of participatory democracy in contemporary Europe. And what did the defenders of the alleged legality do? Illegally apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. Because this is what this Parliament has found in this legislature, thanks to a committee of inquiry, the conclusions of which it approved this chamber. And precisely because they knew about democracy and reason, they did not want to participate in this committee. If I don't win, I don't juice. This of the parliamentary majorities without the father Constitutional Court and without the momma claveguera of the State, seems to cost them. They are still proud to have disqualified President Torra to claim human rights, essential democratic principles, thanks to an administrative body that says that these rights are partyists. So yes. And as long as we're defending everyone and every one of these rights. The surprise is that we don't all do it in this Parliament, and that also makes us a room that is hardly homologable and standardized to referencing democracies. And of course it is a constant incompliment that has passed and that we have experienced in this legislature. They want to remember what the Catalan society decided on 21 December 2017. Delegates of Republican Esquerra who had to occupy a sco: Vice President Oriol Junqueras, in prison; Marta Rovira, in exile; Councillor Raül Romeva, in prison; President Carme Forcadell, a thousand days in prison; Councillor Toni Comín, in exile. Deputies of Junts for Catalonia who would have to occupy a sco if we had obeyed the basic standards of democracy: President Carles Puigdemont, in exile; Jordi Sánchez, in prison; Councillor Clara Ponsatí, in exile; Councillor Jordi Turull, in prison; Councillor Joaquim Forn, in prison. And yes, the degree of failure is so high that all the members of that government are either in exile or in prison. In fact, as a matter of shame, they already carry more time to prison with a government of socialists and commons than with the government of Mariano Rajoy. And in the case of the President of this Parliament, the degree of failure is also absolute: he has not again presided over the chamber, and today we know her victim, with the Lower Councillor, of a Spanish judicial vendetta that has revoked her the very rights that have any common hold. I insist: why does democracy hurt them so much? What kind of face does it stand to annoint and destroy civil and political rights, human rights, with this impunity? What satisfies them with so much individual and collective patience? But I have good news for democracy and very bad news for you: just as President Torra has not tired of repeating, the cause of Catalonia's independence is a just cause, it is a democraticly unbeatable cause, and the next 14th of February Catalonia will have, for the first time in history, a president, and for the third time Catalonia will count on a presidency that has the commitment to make Catalonia's independence effective. And you know what? The third one's won. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.223.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, Congressman Pedret has a final turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.224.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... about the papers, quickly, and then, with the custom of Parliament, to make some other observation. I thank the group of the commons for the presentation of their reviews. They know we've taken on most of them, 75 percent of the papers they've submitted to us and we think they complement the text our group was proposing to the chamber. And we also thank them that, together with the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, there have been practically the only ones who have focused on the subject of the debate, which was the balance of the legislature, the action of the government and perhaps also, obviously – I have made a reference – to which we consider the immediate precedents. I said in my initial intervention that this government has been the worst possible combination of innateness and sectarianism. And I didn't have a clear idea of what each partner's contribution was, or what each member's dose was. Well, it is clear that the party of the Catalan nationalist right has decided, through primaries, to be the camp of sectarianism, and we have today had a new intervention that believes it. For what he does to the rest of the parliamentary groups that have made some observation, I want to make something..., a punctual observation to which deputy Alejandro Fernández gave, because he said: "You have said that it is the others' fault. No, I didn't say that. The invitation, then, if you want, to review the session diary. In any case, actually, I have not devoted my five minutes to making a criticism that invites me to do, with a very Leninist doctrine of self-criticism. We understand that you do not follow our congressional debates. But in any case, they would have been interested. But I'm telling you, we don't centrifuge responsibilities. That's where the specialists are the ones who've ruled the country for years, huh? And, therefore, let us not centrifuge them; we have responsibilities. You too – you too. And, therefore, I think it's good that in the dialog process that we have to do in this country everyone knows how to take criticisms too. And we, sense of doubt, take them in. I Citizens. You see, we accept a few lessons from who turned a splendid electoral victory in the elections of 21st December 2017 into the most sterile thing ever seen since someone tried to cultivate something in Siberian tundra. [[Rialles and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.225.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the government's two-year and half inaction balance]] [[302-00276/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the government's two-and-a-half-year inaction balance presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.226.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, the surrealistic nonsense in which the process has plunged us today forces us to present and bring here this motion, which is practically an amendment to the whole of what the Government has been doing or refusing to do over the past few years. Look, I read you one of the points that we have had to include in this motion. It says: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Autonomous Government of Catalonia to govern and manage the autonomous community of Catalonia, which seems to be something logical, right? Well, when we have to vote and ratify the logical thing, it means that the absurd thing is being normalized. And that is exactly what has happened in this Parliament, not only in this legislature, but also in previous ones. And we're not asking for big things. We only ask the Government for a minimum of decency with those citizens who are paying them their salaries; transparency and good governance, because what you can't do is justify because your welds, your chiringuitos, your myriad of plugs that have scattered around, simply because, according to you, you are managing a republic that is, moreover, only exists in your head. That is no reason to justify this waste of money that you carry in these last legislatures, especially in this and the previous one. Do you see it normal, for example, that we should include in this motion a point that calls for the worst pandemic in the last century to ensure that health and economic measures are not subordinated to the goal of independence? It has to be included here. Why? Well, well, because both Mr Torra and Mrs Borràs have made it very clear that the first objective, even above the pandemic, is independence. Do you see it normal, for example, that we have to include a point in this motion that says and makes it clear that Catalan money cannot be embezzled with the excuse of independence? It has to be included here, because you have brought a motion for a resolution of an amnesty law which precisely seeks to leave unpunished crimes of embezzlement as long as they are for your process and for independence. Do you see it normal, for example, that we have to put here in this anti - corruption motion? You have to put it, because what you do is justify it, right? And then they say it's clear, that the judges are mad at them for being independenceists. We hear this here on Monday in the corruption debate instead of going out here to condemn that corruption, to reject those abusive practices and, above all, to put in place means to prevent it from happening again. Look, citizens just want politicians and institutions to make life easier for them; they don't want them to create problems where they don't exist. They want leaders to touch their feet on the ground, not be on Catalan separatist NASA. That is not what citizenship wants, and less so now, I insist, in this context of crisis. They want a government that attracts investment and talent rather than drive away businesses, which create wealth and jobs. They want a government to lower taxes, not raise taxes to the Madriders, no, lower taxes to the Catalans. They want a government that invests in health, education, dependency, social services, not spending money, for example, in escorts for the Puigdemont escape or in embassies around the world that do not serve any good. What the Catalans want is, in short, to leave behind the frustration, the delusions, the confrontation and, above all, the sterility that is causing their blissful process in our land. I ask them what they plan to do. Will you stand by and wait for the impossible while so many companies leave Catalonia, while social spending is reduced, while the plugs proliferate, while we lose wealth and jobs and stop being the leading car in Spain? Is that what you plan to do? We could talk, for example, about those cuts that you have made in social spending while, on the other hand, multiplying those parallel prorocated structures. We could also talk about those laws that they promised, but they've never arrived. We could also talk about the fact that, in the midst of the pandemic, when the autonomous presidents negotiated measures and shock plans to save lives, you did what you did was ask for a referendum, also at those meetings where, for example, the fate of European funds was discussed. We can also talk about how you rejected field hospitals that would save the lives of Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists, and only did so because those hospitals wore the army logo. Yes, Catalonia has lost another legislature, another one. And I hope it at least served us to learn. And the process must be documented. And this is nothing new anymore. And really that what we are seeing, maneuvers that we are seeing as for example Republican Left and the Socialist Party, which are, seems to be, negotiating a new scenario..., is the same scenario as always: a new tripartite – Left, Socialist Party and the commons – that will continue in the way of the process. Another way, but yes: with the same aim. Said Mr. Cid, he was talking about the best government was Mr. Maragall's tripartite, that Dragon Khan; you were talking about a possible Shambhala. It seems to me that this new tripartite what is going to be is The Witch Train. And here what we need is to open a new stage, a stage that I'm thinking of managing and governing. That would have to be logical. And to put an end to this delusion and, of course, to the common sense. We're what we want to do. We want to return to normality, not only that of before the Covid, but also to political and institutional normality in our land. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.227.0	To defend the papers presented has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.228.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies..., Mrs Roldán, our parliamentary group presented a series of papers to the text; I think I remember that they were around half a dozen papers. Well, they didn't have the difference to respond if they looked good or if we could get to some kind of transaction. I say this for some reference that you made to the question of the dialog and the will of the political forces dialog. Well, I consider the slightest parliamentary difference to go to a group that has submitted papers to try to see if it is possible to reach some kind of agreement. We assume that this is not the case, because, I don't know, you have a turn when you can tell us whether you take them or not, but we see that, at least with another parliamentary group, in this case subgroup, with the People's Party, they have agreed and we have a final text, we understand, from the motion, with some incorporations of proposals from the People's Parliamentary Subgroup. Also in your reference, in your intervention to the previous motion on the same subject, to the writing, which seemed to you to be inconcrete – I wouldn't say it neutral, but in any case it seemed inconcrete – of our text. And I will do the reverse criticism: you have reflected here so much your tarann and your vision of things, that it costs to generate consensus around things in which, perhaps otherwise drafted, we could agree. It happens to you like those writers – who are sometimes interesting because they give a perspective on the view of the author's world – who write as they speak, right? , that you read someone's writing and, effectively, you see the same person talking. So that's exactly what you're thinking here, until in some cases – and there we've put forward papers, meaning doubt – we can't vote in favour of texts that otherwise we might have come to some agreement. Listening to us, we are quite powerfully called to the attention that when we raise them..., instead of simply a criticism that was made when you were setting up what should be done by a future government of the Generality and we raise the questions that you have to see with economic reconstruction, with the impulse of an industrial policy, etcetera, that follow, let us say, the silence the only answer that is rep. Well, I think that, since your group is a specialist in consulting, let's say, the political priorities of other parliamentary groups, I think that this also speaks loudly of the political priorities of your parliamentary group. That before I had to say it in a condensed way, and perhaps a little agrate for which I am used to being my style, but I say it now in another way: your parliamentary group, after having obtained 1,100,000 votes, in terms... let's say, rounding up the ballots, in the elections of 21 September 2017, decided not to do nothing; not to apply for the investiture; not to exercise this class of opposition leaders that still exist in Parliament, while it is quite questionable that in a parliament, let's say, so fractional there could be a leader of opposition, but they did not exercise it; we did not summon the rest of opposition groups to try to agree absolutely anything else. They decided all this. You decided to be antagonists before you were an alternative. And there they are. They are much more comfortable in agitating the conflict, in making the criticism that places you as antagonists of the present government, than not in generating an alternative. And to this young man, in the background, he also passes them, because instead of writing it..., I say he seemed all, Mrs Roldán, or my parliamentary group must have seemed all, but instead of writing it so that people who do not think strictly like us can vote for it – that is what we have tried to do, to present a balance of the legislature that we think people from very different political backgrounds can agree on – you have decided to reflect here, let's say, a series of turnstiles to which they have a lot of misgivings. In some cases, let's say, we can agree; in others, we understand that with lack of rigour. I've already announced what we're thinking of doing. At those points where we had presented them and they haven't given us any answers, so we can't go with them. This is also true of some other point in which we did not present the message, but that we cannot just follow the way in which you present things. And at other points that we can agree on, and that we think, more, that we could agree on more formations of the parliamentary arch, in these we would vote in favour, eh? And, let's just say, to be completely honest, I'll tell you what a big way, because I haven't calculated it, we could say that we're half and half. But, in any case, I think they are taking the opportunity to make a balance of the legislature that can share groups that do not exactly share their analysis of the context and of the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word, now yes, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.230.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, I wanted to thank the Group of the European People's Party for its willingness to reach agreements, and indeed they have accepted our amendments, which were four, one that is more..., practically anecdotal, a more semantic issue, but that there are three essentials, right? The first was to add a point to place special emphasis on the deeply divisive nature of the legislative period that we have experienced. It is true that, in relation to the previous legislature, at least no flagrant illegalities and unilateral processes like that have been committed. It is also true that parliamentary coexistence has been even better. But that does not exclude the fact, and that it has been living through all this time, that the mandate Torra, and its continuation thereafter, has always been presided over by a tone sometimes of profound contempt towards half of the Catalan population, or more than half of the Catalan population, and that is absolutely incompatible with good governance. This kind of contempt has sometimes been explicit, it has sometimes been implicit, but that this deeply divisive character of Catalan society has, therefore, presided over government action all this time. And then, the other two issues, the other two amendments have to do with two issues that we believe have been seriously violated in this legislature, and also by provoking, although it has not always been explained... – it has finally happened with the PDECAT Members, but often it only happened in private; they told you in private, but they did not dare to say the public. First of all, it has been the acceptance of a perverse idea, and it is that in order to guarantee the right to housing – which is a material right enshrined in the Constitution but which is the responsibility of the public authorities to guarantee, not the private sector – the right to private property, which is a liberal right and therefore prior to political action, as can be freedom of expression or any other liberal right, had to be liquidated, right? That has finally been accepted; it is a real barbarity that will eventually have consequences, because these things go to the Constitutional, they become corrected, as it cannot be otherwise. In private some almost thank you, but then make another speech in public. But, well, that has been a matter that is sometimes not valued enough, but that has been serious. And, thirdly, another very worrying issue, and it is the acceptance of the idea – it does not happen today in any other advanced democracy in the world – that the public education system is only the strictly public system, when in all advanced democracies in the world the public education system is the public system combined with the concerted one, which is regulated, in its educational plans, from the public system, and which, therefore, is everything in its whole public education system. It is, therefore, also intended to undermine the course of this parliamentary term, and it is the third amendment we have put forward, which the Citizens' Group has accepted and which we are grateful for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.232.0	Thank you, President. Journalists sometimes deny us because they say we don't talk about the motions and don't explain what's going on. But sometimes it's not even the proposed group. Why, of course, Mrs. Roldán, that you tell me that a government of the left is The Train of the Witch... So the government of the Lady Ayuso, the government of the Lord Aguado and of the Faixista – because it does not have another name – of the Faixista Rocío Monastery, what is it? Nightmares on Elm Street? Because, of course, or you who rule with bexists come to give us lessons from what is a government of the left... Look, who costs with fascists gets up with fascists. And so I'm telling you. But, well, I'm not surprised either, because Mr. Carrizosa said that you can also reach an agreement with Vox for your own legislature, so well, so you need to know who you want to deal with. And I'm telling you that neither with Citizens nor with Vox nor with any fascism, either so that I can make myself clear, with no fascism, speak Catalan or speak Castle. But the real problem we have here today we know what it is, huh? That's why, isn't it? Also... because they don't do your magic. Look, this young man, he said it before Mr. Pedret, is the most obvious proof of the waste of time of a game that has thirty-six scons. Why are there things that are absolutely... or do I, when I'm talking about the government's unrelated decrees and the... All-fruity decrees; well, this is a mega-fruity young man, because, listen... Besides, it's contradictory. Point 4: "End the chaos and autonomous regulatory disorder in the area of taxes and the policy of subjecting Spain to the greatest fiscal pressure of the middle class and the Catalan working class. No, look, there is a fair tax here, which I have explained fifty thousand times, which is that its tax model is that in Madrid an inheritance of EUR 5 million pays no more than EUR 20 thousand and, in change, in Catalonia an inheritance of EUR 5 million pays almost EUR 900,000. And that means fiscal justice and that the rich pay what they play. But, of course, this is contradictory to the fifth point, which I agree with, to the fifth point: "It effectively meets the goal of ending growing poverty, especially child poverty. So, it can't be done with one hand asking for more spending and more public resources and sometimes stealing the Madrid tax, which is a tax haven. You can say what you want, but in Madrid, who doesn't pay taxes, it's basically the people who make the most money. And you're the guarantors' and the cash people's party, and I've explained fifty thousand times why, and with the issue of inheritance tax it's obvious. And then there are things about this young man that are invocable, but invocable because they are from the height of a bell. Mrs Roldán, I know you don't care what I'm explaining, but if you want to answer me later... well, it's the same, I suppose it's Citizens in pure state, that's to say, you care about three cucumbers that tell you the rest of the groups that we're discussing with them. But they tell her about the height of a bell. There are things that are invocable. You mention that there are institutions in this country that have violated the fundamental rights, and they quote as institutions in this country that have violated the fundamental rights of the University of Barcelona and the Autonomous University. So, you believe that the Autonomous University of Barcelona and the University of Barcelona, as institutions... I do not say that there can be, in this case, violations that could have been given, but, as institutions, would violate the fundamental rights? Literal, huh? You define... it's like, the same way I don't agree that Spain is Turkey and things that are said by certain sectors of independence. Listen, Catalunya, I'm sorry, it's not Hungary. Next, it's not Orbán, it's not Poland. And so, or so, I'm asking a bit of rigour with the questions they write. And, look, with all due respect, I think that there are points of this young man... – and I say, I know it hard, because in the Parliament of Catalonia, too, we sometimes come in very colloquial terms, but I think it's the truth – it's to say, it's..., or it's: "I don't dare this? Hold on to the cubata, I'll write it. It is that there are things that are absolutely impossible that could have written them in this young man, that are from the height of a bell. They're sweeping things that they don't have anything to see. That's to say, what you have to see..., or else, you think that you can write barring points where you are talking, for example, in this case, about things that need to be done, such as, for example, preventing sizes or phonental rights, or so, preventing you from exercising phonental rights. Or, for example, when we are talking about draft laws, which, in this case, sweep the issue of the protection of minors with the issue of the protection of minors against gender-based violence. I mean, the young lady is a Frankenstein species that, besides, doesn't have any kind of sense. So, I'm the only one I'm claiming is, if you want to make a move on this government, there's a lot of ways to do it; Mr. Pedret told you, they intend to consent. Because we are against this government, but there are things that write that are inexhaustible from a democratic point of view. And then I insist on what I gave him: no lesson from whom he deals with the fascism of Vox, nor after what you are doing to the Community of Madrid, which is the pact of the Lord Aguado, who is of his party, with the Lord Monastery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.233.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.234.0	Thank you very much, President. They'll let me not talk about The Witch Train or the Nightmare on Elm Street, which I have a lot of respect for Mr. Craven and the director, and they're cultural institutions I want to respect. And they will allow me – yes – to share something today with the distinguished Member Pedret, who previously referred to Lenin and his self-critical view. I've been trying to figure out what Lenin would do right now here, and what Lenin would do here is say we're doing parliamentary cretinism, exactly. And I'll take advantage of the bourgeois institutions to give a critical speech about what's going on outside. And what happened today is that at a young Andalusian– or, rather, of Andalusian origin and Castilian residence–, at Dani Gallardo, he was sentenced to four and a half years in prison to go or to walk in a demonstration of support against the repression experienced by the people of Catalonia in the city of Madrid. That's what we have. And we at Dani Gallardo, with all our esteem, want to convey all the support, and that all that you need and can be in the hands of the CUP, at the absolute disposition of your person, as it cannot be in any other way. I, therefore, "Dani Gallardo, freedom! That's right, let's go back to parliamentary cretinism. And listening to what some journalists also tell us, that we do not give our interventions how we will position ourselves..., and, therefore, also express that we will vote in favour of six of the thirty-six – approximate – points that have this motion of Citizens, of Ciutadans : the one that speaks of poverty; to end with support and competitions – to reduce them – ; to some plural public media; to reduce the high fees and their salaries; to strengthen the primary, and to reduce the internatge to the public sector – we would plan to eliminate it. On the rest, in everything that means criminalising independence and countermeasures to the rights of the popular classes, as it cannot be otherwise, against. And, lastly, he abstained in everything that does not suppose a concretion. We tried to make Lenin, we tried to give an answer to what was happening, and we also tried to position ourselves above all and every point of this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.235.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Marc Sanglas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.236.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Miri, from the start they bring us here a young man with thirty-eight points because, listen, it looks like there..., away first, away second, and the letter to, the good letter and the letter which, therefore, seems more like an attempt of a soup of letters than the will of a clear young man and which can be seriously debated. We started reading it with the will to see what we found, to try to set up a task, but in the end we decided it didn't fit. Because you in this young man are, as always, branded as Ciutadans' house. The whole line of models, of names that have been used during this legislature, is that if the process, that if «siringuitos, that if TV3 and the embassies, that if the reduction of public, that systemic corruption, that break the blockade of the reforms – that some are competence in Madrid –, therefore..., prioritize the return of the enterprises that they left... Stop creating 'their own minds. Mrs. Roldán, they have crept their own lies that you have fabricated. They haven't left that number of companies. And I remind you that someone – someone – has dedicated himself to calling some of these companies asking that they change their prosecutor. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You have tried – no, no, do what you want – to create a mantra. They tell us we have to turn the country into an attractive place. But if you don't stop situating this country... you just say, this is like The Witch Train, you just said that the Spanish-speaking people are being persecuted in Catalonia. Lying lies. You're giving a panorama of the country that's not real, that doesn't absolutely fit into the reality that we're having. You're deceiving yourself with your own lies. You're the people of the "wrong and the" lio, and we're..., and we want to talk. We want to talk about responsibility, we want to talk about management. You, who are so busy... and you bring us here a lot of proposals that you don't have the capacity to do, and in any case, they are contradictory, as some of the other people who preceded me pointed out. It's been a long time since you've been dedicated, filled your mouth with things that don't bring us anywhere. You, who are unable to empathize with people who have been sitting on these scons for a few months. You are not able to look at the children of these people who are in prison and still have a hard face – the hard face – to say that they have prison benefits. They have no shame. They need to be first people, before submitting second proposals. You, who criticize the lack of plurality of public communication media in Catalonia, from TV3, from Catalunya Radio, from media, and you criticize this! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You accused that there was no ideological freedom..., Mr. Vidal pointed out the case of Dani Gallardo, this late, but more than three thousand people, three thousand citizens of Catalonia prosecuted for their political militancy. Three thousand people! You know what they are, right? There are many people in this country persecuted to try to defend a political project, to try to defend some ideas. And you continue; you, who applaud... you, who demand freedom of speech, are the first to applaud the sentences of the Constitutional Court, who say that insulting the Spanish flag is not protected by the right of expression. You, who criticize the heights of the Meridiana, are unable to criticize the heights that every day suffer thousands of citizens in the Renfe Rodalies, who arrive late at their work places, who do not have the ability to arrive and do not guarantee their right to arrive at their work place in one hour. You say that they defend coexistence and have not tired of reversing the confrontation between Catalans. And look, I let this last minute that I'm left with this intervention: I've always boasted of being a pacist deputy, of trying to reach agreement, with you it wasn't possible. It is hard for me to know that my last intervention in this Parliament does not follow, let us say, to make and to give support to a political proposal, but for this element. But in any case, he wanted to give thanks, first of all. And a record for political prisoners and prisoners, today, precisely, that a thousand days ago, Forcadell's Carmel is in prison. There are many; there are other political prisoners and reprisals. A record for all of them, especially Oriol and Marta exiles, and all of the other exiles, who are being painted at these moments the consequences of repression. A thank you to Parliament's workers, who have made the operation possible and who, thanks to your pocket, make it possible for you to pull this forward. A thanks also to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups that I have had during these four legislatures in this Parliament; presidents, secretaries and spokespersons of my parliamentary group. Give thanks, too, to all the companies, Members and Members, almost fifty people that we have shared parliamentary groups in these various times; to all the workers, also from the parliamentary group, especially Marc Suarez, who has helped me on many occasions at this stage. And to all the Members and Members with whom we have struggled or, in any case, we have discussed, we have tried to agree, and surely in some cases we have not gone out and in others we have not. Thank you to my family for giving me support in the most complicated moments that have ever been in this house. And just one last prec. This is the house of democracy, this is the house of parliamentarianism. You who can, profit, speak, do not let anyone coerce their freedom, nor the court coerce their freedom, and strengthen the freedom of being able to speak of everything that interests the citizens in this house. It has been a pride and an honor to serve in this house, with this vocation of public service; it has been an honor. Many thanks and to arrange in any other place. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.237.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Mascarell has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.238.0	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor... Well, Albert Camus wrote that he was an activist above all and mainly of a political party, he said, of those who do not always think they are right – said Albert Camus. I've always thought this game is my favorite, the one we don't always want to be right about. So much so that I always watch the longest matches of my idealist with the will to learn something. With you, Mrs. Roldán, that doesn't happen. It's been a long time since we know – and we know practically all those who conform to the democratic life of our country – that you bring essentially corrosion and destruction; they are a patched disk that provides preferably words that have been repeated systemically: « decency, « welds, « chiringuitos. Shame on you to escort them. And it shames me to listen and read the proposal that you have made today, as a contradiction, as a populist, as a banal; for all the qualifications that I have been denied that can be put to the political dynamic. Don't look at me, but I know you're listening to me. Thank you. I've always thought good politics is a way to undo our lives that make people's lives difficult. You bring us each time more angry, more strange and more difficult to undo. The first objective of this legislature and of the Government of Catalonia was the people, and that is why it demands independence, this government, the people, and the parliamentary part that supports it. And the first objective followed the country's salvation and economy, and that is why independence was also claimed. If anyone has failed in this legislature, Mrs. Roldán, they have remained you. They did a reasonably good election result. They have passed a bad legislature: they have said falsehoods to the dojo, they have lost half of their militants, Spanish politics has put them in the band... It is also pointed out that they will do a bad result in the autonomic properties. They have not been able to do anything else, other than that based on the hatred they feel for independence, for Catalans and Catalans who legitimately want independence. The hatred they feel for catalanity, for the institutions of the country, for language and for civil society, for the past and for the future of the country, for democracy. You are the great losers of this legislature, Mrs. Roldán. I repeat: you are the great losers of this legislature. And they come to us with this proposal, with this last-minute young man. They have given support to the political worsts of the State towards Catalonia: judicialization, 155 illegal, clavegueres, enterprise, exile, 2,800 people with judicial problems. What's all this about? That I know independence is here and believe it will stay here. In fact, it's almost a pleasure that there's been a lot of fuss. It is a perfect synthesis of all the evil, the polluter – which is said in the castle – and the corrosion that you accumulate in your political project. They wanted to leave in the memory of this Parliament a populist manifesto that expresses better than anything that we can argue his moody, corrosive, twisted, grotesque and authoritarian ideas against Catalonia. That's it, Mrs. Roldán. You think there are people who live like this. I tell them serenely – I tell them serenely. Personally, it is difficult to understand that someone can lose both their country and, at least, a substantial part of the people who live there. The Parliament of Catalonia asks and will always demand the Government of Catalonia that I manage well and will criticize as much as it convinces its Government. But the Parliament of Catalonia will also defend a country that you intend to destroy and minimize, blow up, turn into an appendix to this business that you have called, in your most unitary, homogeneous, Spanish-language and authoritative version. And in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, while I am left with an aloof democratic life, we will tell you the times when we are many Catalans who want the independence of Catalonia in order to prevent their idea of Spain from continuing to harm the longings of democracy, justice, prosperity and the well-being of most Catalans. And the Spanish State is the problem. And that's what Pi and Margall thought, a glue of years ago, and Prat de la Riba, a glue of years ago, and President Maragall himself, and President But and President Puigdemont himself and President Torra himself. All of them. The Spanish State is the problem. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] They're not opinions that I'm expressing, it's manifestation in a way that you have to hear politics...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.239.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.240.0	...and defend a deeply denied Spanish state. The state that you defend is a failed state in democratic and political terms and will soon be in economic and social terms if you accept, if we accept its logic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.241.0	Congressman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.242.0	Two seconds, President, since I'm in love with you today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.243.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.244.0	We don't accept them. Half of the points of introduction are false or ideologically damaging, the other half is a poti-poti without logic or concert and much less correct, as the phrase in the castle would say. President Obama has rightly said that those who promote confusion between truth and lies suffer democracy. Your politics, Mrs. Roldán...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.245.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.246.0	... stuffed with lies makes democracy suffer and makes the Catalan people suffer and distort. The day they want to talk... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.247.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, the Member Roldán has a turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.248.0	Yes; thank you, President. Thanks to the Subgroup of the People's Party for the amendments that we believe enrich the text and that is why we have included in our original motion. And I go for parts, for some of the barbarities that have been said here. To Mr Pedret, who accuses us of writing as we speak. Yes, we write how we speak and act as we speak too, because to do one thing or say one thing and then do the other, for that is already the Socialist Party. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Sánchez, who was not going to blink with Churches in the government and now sleeps loosely. And Mr. Iceta saying he doesn't intend to rule with the Republican Left, when it's not just a month since they entered Masnou's government, with whom? , with Republican Left. To say one thing and do the opposite, for that you are already. Mr. Cid, look, lessons not one. Lessons from partners and not partners, not one. Of those who bargain with the heirs of Batasuna, neither a lesson, Mr. Cid, nor a lesson. [[Greetings.]] And before coming here, it is reported, because yes, fundamental rights have been violated by institutions such as, for example, the University of Barcelona. The Barcelona Dispute-Administrative Court number 3 has condemned the University of Barcelona for violating the fundamental rights to ideological freedom and freedom of expression of its teachers and students. Before you come here, at least read a little bit, Mr. Cid, a little bit alone. And with regard to Mr. Sanglas, you've become very nervous, Mr. Sanglas. Which I'm not surprised you're so nervous, because, of course, you know that your name appears in these investigations of the Volhov case, right? You know that, don't you? Mr Mir said..., you can see that he called Mr Vendrell to ask him to see if he knew any of the related secretaries, because the one they had at the Town Hall of Cabrera this was politically neutral, and then, of course, for Villa Bugatti's chanchullos that didn't suit him well. Did you ever call Mr. Mir? Did Mr. Vendrell call you? We'll know that, Mr. Sanglas. But I understand you're so nervous. And, by the way, we don't need to invent anything at all, which says that we invent that there is persecution of the Castilian here. What is this? What is this? [[The speaker shows a photograph to the chamber.]] « Speak Catalan or emigrate. What is this, Mr. Sanglas? Sponsored and instigated by Platform for Language. The one you water with money from all Catalans. So do the favor and stop giving so many lessons and look at yourself a little bit that you have enough to look at. It is shameful that you have to come here, blame others, assume absolutely nothing and, above all, believe yourself to be the most democrats in the world. That's all right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.249.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The vote is over... [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.250.0	For contradictions with Mr. Bloods.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.251.0	What contradiction?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.252.0	Well, I want to take advantage, if we've left thirty seconds, to thank Mr. Bloods for his parliamentary pocket. Today's getting a hold of yourself. Today we have seen two models of how parliamentaryism can be done in this Parliament. I've already told the committee, I think we're missing it, I'm also extending it to Mr. Ferran Civit, who, while sharing different political projects, he's an environmentalist convinced like me. I'll find, as I said, his will to agree and to make a pact. I hope, too, that you went very well in this new stage. I also hope we can have a better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.253.0	Mr. Cid...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.254.0	...that yours. In any case, I thank him for his hard work and wanted to do it in his office in the Catalan Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.255.0	In any case, it's not a contradiction, let's say. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government about the current political situation]] [[300-00347/12]] Let's move on to the inquiry presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Call on the current political situation. The defense, on behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.256.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. We're holding a legislature that's been complicated and complex, and it's also hard in many ways, especially because since October, there are already three-thousand people retaliated for exercising the right to self-determination and for defending that right. We, as a show of solidarity, wish to reiterate our insurmountable commitment to the independence of the Catalan Countries. It's important to look back and analyze what worked and what didn't. Today the Councillor of the Interior, unfortunately, has stated that we have interfered negatively in a demonstration for a notional electoral purpose. Beyond absurdity and how ridiculous these words sound, it is important to remember that behind every speech, every sentence, every statement – more or less intentional – there are people, there are families, there is patience. The Lluïsa, for example, is a vein of New Barris to whom they operated yesterday, and to the hospital they prescribed rebuttals. They tried to call her in yesterday. The movement for habitation, which knows who Lluïsa is, is what has prevented her from denouncing it. Today we talk about the veins of the Gayarre block; I don't know if you know where they are. The Hague is a vein that has been drained from the Eixample right into the pandemic; a denunciation that certainly ended with three companies being held. A l'Alejandro, he went out of his house just last week to Guinardo. And this is a small exhibition of everyday life and the reality of hundreds of people in our country. The last time I asked him, he told me that what he decides this government has to pay, and the truth is, you're right. They can charge the Incasòl to close a sale of 120_million euros to buy some land from the Caixa and later sell it to another company to build the largest casino in Europe or charge the Incasòl to allocate 120_million euros to expand a housing park that today is not up or up to 3_percent. We can be the country that pays the most for private sanitation and worse for health care. Or, on the other hand, they can reverse the current health model and bet for a health of ownership, management and public provision and, therefore, quality and with decent conditions for their workers. They've been asking for it for a while. They can dignify the working conditions of workers, for example, of the residences of large people; of workers who clean public buildings such as schools and hospitals, who do so for very large businesses to pay them a misery. We can bet, on the contrary, on a one-hundred-per-cent public management or we can continue to give these services to IBEX 35 and to large companies that continue to deepen in the understatement of those jobs that are most important to our society, that are healing, aging and dependency jobs; those jobs that we have recently given them essential. Not for essentials, valued. We can promote quality work, for example, by promoting the social and solidary economy. Or, on the other hand, they can give contracts to Ferrovial for 18_million euros, because then they don't do the job. They are more of the money that is allocated in total annually to the cooperative ateneus program and singular projects that depend on the Department of Social Economy. We can make progress in the process of democratisation of the Catalan Institute of Finance on the way to a public bank. To do this, as we agree, is to plan the economy, it's more of a government compromise. Or, on the other hand, we can continue to sign agreeable with Santander, with BBVA, with the Box to provide financing to the economic fabric, posing as the only condition the type of interest and not planning the economy. They can progressively increase the collection of inheritance tax, the tax on the income of physical persons and promote environmental taxation measures to redistribute resources and wealth. You'll tell me you've already done it, but we think the situation requires more effort and going a little further. So you could make bonuses to whom you need it, but what we have seen in the last forty decrees is the approval of universal bonuses without taking into account the economic capacity of the pass subject, that is, who pays the tax. We can implement the agreements approved for the Parliament of Catalonia, Motion 17/XII, on health transport and medical emergency care, and Resolution 285/XI, on actions for a new model of management of the System of Medical Emergencies, where progress was made towards management, ownership and public provision. Or follow, on the contrary, speaking of feminism discursively while a health system allows the directories of the entities concerted with the Cat Salut to keep under millionaires while underpaying the socio-health techniques, a 90_percent of them gifts. Cover, these directives, more than the president of the Generalitat charged. They can choose to start the extinctions of all the lost hydro-electric concessions in order to determine their return to public control and to vet for the compliment of the complete ecologics of all the internal shells of Catalonia. Or you can still bet on the Olympic Winter Games and refuse to listen to the territory by doing a consultation, as was done in Valais, Switzerland, for example, or Tyrol, in Austria, where the veins have said no; that no, because of the negative social and environmental impacts of this project. In short, counselor, what we want to say to you with this question is that the decisions we make have consequences on people with names and surnames. After the decisions we make there are fighting and survival lives, people who have lost their jobs, a family behind every self-employed worker who doesn't know if they can work the next week or if they can't even cope with the accumulated expenses. Mr. Aragonès, a legislature ended that had to bring us from restitution to full sovereignty, to the republic of the people, but the reality is very different. A parliamentary term of social war against the poor ends, of repression against all those who fight, also on behalf of the Government of the Generality, against those who defend the right to self-determination of our people. Three thousand – we have already said – are the people retaliated; except for the fascism, which seems to enjoy the same impunity that has always guaranteed it by the State. A legislature ends that leaves us at the opposite point of where we're supposed to be. We hope that the elections will be a turning point and that in this new cycle the correlation of forces allows us to put people, families, workers, survivors... life, in the center. The only way out of this crisis is a real social transformation. It is true, that combined with palliative and stunning measures, but we can walk towards this social transformation. And this is possible by using a new cycle for the people, a new cycle for the victories that we deserve, for independence, for a health care that takes care of everyone and does not look at anyone's wallet, for a school that is a cohesion hall, where the language of the Catalan Countries is present at every raccoon, that is not raised for anyone; for a new model where no person is illegal or does not exist in the CIE, where there is no lack of a dish at the table, where everyone has one place and no lack of work at all. We are fighting precisely for this, because we know that there is another way to live, because we know that it is possible to build a national process that goes hand in hand with a process of social transformation, because this crisis we do not want to pay for by the majority of the people and workers of our people. This crisis is to be paid by the rich, and if we want a feminist, ecological, socialist country, we need to have enough social, economic and political power to discipline capitalism and subdue private empires to general interest and common good. And that, Mr. Aragonese, is republicanism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.257.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.258.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, I must confess that when I saw the title of this question – which, in fact, the question was about the current political situation – it was cold to know the content, to know why they would ask, right? I am also surprised at a little, therefore, that, finally, also the questions, which must be concrete, can be formulated before such a generic title. But in any case, there is no problem; we are here to respond and also to present our proposals. Let's leave some comments on some extremes of what you've put on the table and that, geez, I think it's not adjusted. You referred to the state's worst-paid health care providers. We are only looking at agreeing with the MIR, which is precisely the result of a mobilization, with all that is the resident internal meths, which has allowed us at these times – from October, but also from the generation – to have a remuneration of the highest in the State, as corresponded. Correspondence. And it was also thanks to them that they mobilized to put this emergence from the table that generated the conditions of negotiation too to be able to face it. We always – always – are working to try to improve everyone's living conditions. He has dealt with other issues, such as Incasòl's policies. It has compared some of the processes of buying land, buying and selling simultaneously, with what must be the housing policies of Incasòl. So, exactly, that's what he doesn't have to do. That is to say, what happened to the land of the CRT – in fact, it approved a _mark because, when the PDU opens, and the modification of the PDU, because this will cheat on its time, it can begin to apply – is buying and selling at the same time. This is what we don't have to do in housing, which is one of the problems that has happened to housing policies historically in this country, that has been the inn in the housing market by, automatically, selling it than at the end of a time spent on a market without price limitations and, therefore, passed to the free market and emptying the protected market. Therefore, we have to do, precisely, all the opposite. I agree with you that decisions have consequences. This legislature could have been a lot different from the first months of the Inicians. We know there was-there was an investiture that couldn't culminate, Jordi Turull's. It would have been very different how we could have faced everything. In any case, the decisions have consequences and it is necessary to make a point of inflection after a legislature in which, as I said, we started under a 155 which, until June, until June 2nd, was not able to rise, when the elections were held on 21 December; with prevented investments and repression that went on throughout the legislature, which held its highest point, we can say, with the judgment of October 14, 2019, but that it also had its continuation with the disqualification of President Torra. A legislature in which, despite everything, we have been working to advance in the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans. And it has been in this legislature, precisely, in which we have been able to put resources on the table, some assumptions, which have allowed us to move forward as never before in the best of public services, and which emerges from these assumptions, because in a moment of pandemic they have been essential to have a minimum land from which to face the whole struggle against the Covid, which is a struggle that is the very struggle of defending the essential public services. And we have been able to do this thanks to some assumptions, in which we were pleased that you were there. To reach an agreement, everyone has to give in; to reach an agreement, everyone has to make a deal. We do. I think this must also be a turning point in the relationship between..., I don't know if the government, because obviously it will depend on the election results, but in any case between our respective political spaces. Because I am convinced that it has made it possible to work together, and a lot – and a lot. Precisely, you referring to republican values, the republican idea of freedom is that which is not based solely on the liberal idea of freedom to do what you want, but that freedom which is that of not being submissive, of not being submissive, of not being submissive to power, nor to economic conditions which limit your freedom. This freedom and, therefore, the material conditions that make it possible to exercise freedom, require a policy of equal opportunities, a policy of redistribution of wealth at the expense of the simple policy of civil rights and political freedoms, right? This is one of the sources of Republican ideas. And, to do so, we need to face a profound transformation of our product model, the product model that determines social relationships. And in fact, therefore, to do so also in a product model which is much more environmentally sustainable but which is also refocusing on the essential value of it. And in this sense, we have put forward a proposal for an economic recovery plan in four axes, which are four axes that require strong public intervention, strong public investment as well, and which must serve us to generate a productivity-based and not low wage-based product model, based on high skills and high skills and high investment, and a sufficient technological capability, so that we can compete, not only with the world, but also with our internal market, based on innovation, based on the ability to produce more and better, based on the ability to increase productivity. The alternative is the model we've had so far, that out of every crisis we get out with a pay devaluation. This country can't afford this. It's been a while. They don't want me to pass again. And now we are in a new crisis in which, unlike the previous crisis, we have resources at our disposal that we will have to face during the next year, to improve productivity precisely, to move towards a structured economy with higher wages. And this is a fundamental policy, which must have any left-wing government, which is precisely to increase productive capacity to raise wages. It is the best way of redistribution – in fact, it would be predisposition, but distribution, at the end and at the end – of resources and opportunities. Therefore, it means focusing on the market, it means acting on the market and not merely redistributive policies based on taxes and benefits. And this means a role for the active State in the economy, so that it can bring patient capital from innovation to long-term recourse, so that it can bet precisely on those strategic sectors that need public support or on those sectors that are regulated and that also need, it is necessary, because they can be fully in the service of the citizenry of public operators. And in this sense, we have been proposing and working continuously because the Catalan Institute of Finance is the public bank, the public investment bank, the promotional bank of our country, the development bank. We can say this with the different understandings that modern public banking has in our world. This productive transformation of our basem into four axes. In the first place, place all that is to empower the sectors related to the economy of life. This expression connects a lot with some of the proposals that the movement of the social and solidary economy has been putting on the table. There are many points in common. This economy of life in which the health sector is absolutely fundamental, the healing sector, but also the food sector, which has an extraordinary potential for our country. They can be food potency, but they can also achieve an important self-sufficiency. This resilience is important precisely because in a world where global risks will continue to present, pandemic risks, financial risks, climate risks, as well as all phenomena associated with globalisation, which also means freedom of capital, freedom of goods and freedom of movement of people, which is usually the one that has always been more restrained by the states..., but this first axis is fundamental. The second is: digitization will be there, but either it is distributed or it will cause more injustice and increase the Bretxa. Therefore, a public program of digitalization, of support to the productive economy but also to the social initiative. Three: the Green Agenda, clearly facing the climate change, which at these times is a nixol of business, also, but it can be a real nixol or a real axis of public policies. And that goes by public transport, by a re-thinking of the country, in a very clear way, with energy produced in a distributed way, also within the country. And finally, with the knowledge society. I think that's what we'll have the opportunity to talk about at the same time, and they're the axes of all these common spaces that we have so we can move forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.259.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's a new turn, to make the reply, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.260.0	Counselor, we'll take his word and listen to his locations. We believe that it is up to us to sum up, sum up all the political, social, economic and cultural transformational energies that exist in our society, precisely around political proposals of the left, which draw a horizon of hope, of social change, of defense of the popular classes, of social solidarity and of redistribution of wealth; defense of public services, a new economic model post-capitalist and post-coronavirus, economic democracy, ecological transition with social justice, ecology, feminism, food sovereignty, industrial, technological, residential, cultural, energy. In short, material alternatives that give rise to the rights and needs of the popular and hardworking majority of our country and draw the foundations of a new society. Soberania today is the capacity for collective, political, social and economic self-determination. And we think that this is why we need to increase popular and social power and change to a new cycle. And if we share this analysis, counselor, which I believe we share, and the need for us scenes of cooperation and co-responsibility in the design of these solutions for a social and economic transformation, as we are already asking for various voices, I think we need to listen, and a lot, a lot of moves and a lot of people today in Catalan society make a great role of social transformation. We talk about ecological movements, of Ecologists in Action, Engineers without Borders, Fridays for Future, Aigua es Vida, the ODG, OMAL, the plataforms that run from the territories defend our land, the forces of combat trade unionism, the workers of the service of home care, the workers of the residences, and also the users of the cultural sector, or the workers, such as the Union of Musicians, or the taxis, the estabadores, the health workers, the Sanitaries in Lluita, the tides, the Rebel·lió Primària ; the vaïnal movement– so implanted in our society by mediating the associations – the educational community; the movement for housing, the PAHs, the unions of housing and the businesses of the... And, frankly, President, there are a lot of people who are asking for this transformation and this social change. And we think that we need to listen to them, that we need to think about a programme with political proposals of the left that make us walk towards this process of national construction and social transformation. We must work with the best that a country has, which in the end is its people, the organized people, that always, but still more in a time of pandemic, has been the best instrument of resistance, cohesion, solidarity, precisely in the face of the situation of health emergency that we are living, but also to this social and economic crisis; a social and economic crisis that presents itself with the effects of the crisis of 2008 very present, and a situation of health emergency that has acted as an accelerator, of transporting from this crisis. And, therefore, we need to listen to people, we need to expand social power, and the social power at the end is the only one that has the ability to plant for these big companies. And when we talk about popular unity we talk about this, we talk about we can listen to the organized society, we can huddle all those that are now standing in front of the capital. Why? So because despite Endesa's winning 700_per_cent more than in the previous exercise, he's still cutting off the light to families who can't pay the bill. And that's because he has a power that he's been granted, that he's been given. And, therefore, if we want to draw this power from these great elites and economic powers, that is to say, we are deepening social power.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.261.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President once again said the answer to the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.262.0	Thank you very much, President. I fully agree with the Member that crises are processes of accelerating trends many times historical that have been seen in society. In this pandemic crisis, we experienced the acceleration of certain processes that came from the foundations. Some have to do with the technological change, with a digitization, that if you don't have, if we don't also offer from the public a clear proposal, you end up feeling a digitization that opens up and speeds up inequalities. There have also been some changes in the production system that have accelerated; the choice between the precariousness that is in the essential sectors and what they were before, let's just say, isn't it? So, the white collars that we can teletreball today. This must be reunified. And a process and a program of change and transformation has to do it. He talked about summarizing, and I totally agree. This past week, last week, in fact, Tabaré Vázquez died, an expression of Uruguay, one of the leaders of the Broad Front, which is a very unique experiment, but which allowed to unite people of different perspectives of the left of Uruguay in a common program and a common proposal. You know, don't you? , the organizational complexity of the Broad Front that was ailing..., but the strength, too, because today, as well as being in opposition, the firm that he left was so strong that it costs a lot, therefore, to a conservative government to pull back many of the proposals and policies that he made. So, I think there's an area of collaboration, of common program that's possible between those who have been militants since anti-capitalism, so, and that you also have and share this independentist view with those who have this independentist view and do it to the country closest to a social democracy, right? Therefore, we have..., there is room for collaboration. Our challenge is that all these concepts that we have put on the table – that the Member has done in her intervention, and that I believe that in good part they contain the debates that we are having on the backs of our country, that they do not cease to be global reptes, that the rest of humanity must also face – we must be able to put them into public decisions, instruments, policies, legislative changes, too. And, therefore, in this sense, I think we need to take a step forward. They are very aware of the viability. One of the big debates on the left has always been between, hasn't it? , reform and revolution. I don't think we're going to repeat it here now, but I think I can imagine where we'd be in this debate. I'd be very clear about that, wouldn't I? And I don't think it's a problem in this sense; we're already moving in. But it's important that you live. We've seen processes that seem from the left that they've managed, so, uh, access state governments in our immediate surroundings, huh? , around the European Union, which eventually ended or failed, because they were dislodged from power, or ended up accepting the logics that existed. So we have to be able to give it a living, don't we? And I think this is the essential step forward that needs to be taken. In the end, those who want the independence of Catalonia we must be very aware that we will only have this independence if we face it by the way full, by the way to add every time more people, to be able to associate this objective and this challenge with more rights and better benefit for everyone; this idea that we must have that independence is either shared or will not be. And when I say that "it's shared I mean that it's widely shared by most of this country, and most of this country is the majority..., it's the normal people, it's the common people, it's the working people, it's the autonomies, the micro-entrepreneurs, isn't it? I therefore believe that we have this opportunity to be able to generate these majorities, which must first be a proposal, a project, and which, of course, can then be transformed into political majorities. I therefore welcome this intervention very much. I have to say that I have started very sceptical, but I am much happier, because I believe that there are opportunities for collaboration of important futures that we must be able to enjoy. Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.263.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the government about the balance of youth policies]] [[300-00346/12]] Let us turn to the next question, now, which is the question to the Government on the balance of youth policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose her, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.264.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Councillor... This is from the last plenary, and many young people see it as a lost legislature, no longer just because this Government has been completely unable to respond to the most immediate needs of our country's youth during the pandemic, but also because the Government has failed dramatically to think of a country where youth can live their lives with dignity. Why have people, especially young women, been abandoned throughout the legislature, not only in the pandemic but throughout the legislature? Is it not because young people vote less than other sectors and for you they do not deserve the dedication they really need? We can say without fear of error that youth cannot start their lives as emancipated people. We are currently at a minimum level of emancipation in recent history, a 19.7_per_cent, and the level of occupation is reaching 2008 levels. Many of them have grown, studied and entered working age during the severe economic crisis we have suffered since 2008, from which they had not even recovered; others must now face the start of their own life projects. Currently, 150,000 young people are unemployed in Catalonia, according to a report by the Observatori Català de la Joventut. The youth unemployment rate has increased from 19 to 25 per cent in just one year, according to data from the second quarter of 2020, as pointed out in the publication of the Youth and Covid report: the impact of the crisis on the precariousness of youth, of the National Council of Youth of Catalonia. They are therefore a vulnerable group, and they do not see specific public policies for them and for them. All this adds to the fact that there is not a single measure taken by the Government during this year of a pandemic aimed specifically at the promotion and promotion of youth occupation. The National Council of the Youth of Catalonia, together with other organizations, also carried out an X-ray of young tenants where unacceptable figures were revealed that cast the following reality: our young people cannot emancipate themselves and must dedicate an astronomical figure in order to be able to do so. Thus, this Government's policies in this regard have been very poor. The persistent refusal to think about concrete measures to support young tenants has been a constant one. When efforts have been made to respond to the needs of the collective, the actions of this Government have been very timid, deviating from their obligations and relegating all human and economic propository work to municipal and supra-municipal bodies, which do not even have the competence to execute and carry out them. Why have young people in our country been denied the initiation of their life - plans? And we also ask ourselves: why has greater resources not been guaranteed in the psychological care of young women, especially in the pandemic? Before months of almost exclusive care for physical health, we find the carelessness of mental health that generates its own dynamics of crisis in society. Before the pandemic, suicide was the leading cause of death among young people. The situation of stress and health insecurity has worsened this situation in the mental health of young people. While it is still too early to know the impact, we are aware of the increase in calls calling for more specialized attention and that this has resulted in collapses in telephone care. That is why we need to take immediate action to give all possible support to adolescents and young people affected by this mental health crisis. We must avoid loss of life or disease such as depression in the face of the lack of opportunities that can affect the full development of an entire generation. In order to ensure this direct attention, the measures taken by the Generalitat must be in direct coordination with municipal and regional administrations. We wonder why this Government has been unable to put in place immediate solutions so that the young women who have been carrying this pandemic long before it arrived will continue in this situation. We are particularly concerned that the Government has ignored the mental health of young women before, during and after confinement, as mental illnesses such as depression were already a previous problem. Why, then, have young women not been guaranteed equal enjoyment of their lives? That's another big question. Another issue that we are concerned about and want to mention is the increasing incidence of sexist violence that is increasingly worrying in younger generations, as well as the lack of support to curb the discrimination suffered by young LGBTI women. One more lewdness from this government that will bring serious consequences to youth. Another issue that concerns young people – and much – is climate change. Why have the foundations not been laid for building a climate - neutral country? This Government officially declared the climate emergency on May 14, 2019, as many of the young women who were protesting to have a dignified future in a country that is not swallowed up by natural disasters and forces them to march on climate migration, which at this point seems more than likely. A year later, the temporary Gloria devastated the Catalan coasts and infrastructure, causing direct effects on the lives of many young people. The train lines between Barcelona and Girona were severely affected by preventing the regular mobility of their users. Also, when the time for descalation has finally come, young people who use T-Young's quarterly fertilizers have had to look for alternatives. This has not only involved the use of means of transport that contribute to aggravation of the climate crisis, but has forced many young people to choose between their usual places of residence or places close to higher educational establishments or specialized jobs, thereby worsening their living conditions. And when measures such as the extension of transport tickets are taken, why do these measures always come late and after citizens have had to mobilize themselves to claim them? This government has only played with the flags throughout the legislature, but the degree of paralysis, doubt and dismay that we have observed over the past year has been shameful. And if during the first wave you had the excuse of the exceptionality of the pandemic, during this second wave you have shown that neither management capacity, nor preparation capacity, nor improvisation capacity. The question is: why have they done nothing to plan and mitigate climate catastrophes on the lives of Catalan women when young women have been warning us of this for months? Why do they continue to charge them with the faults of what this government has been unable to do? One thing that has also been very recurrent in the Committee on Youth Policy and in the streets with mobilizations has been the struggle for work worthy of the fellows and the fellows. The National Council of Youth of Catalonia carried out a very precise X-ray on work and training practices. We believe that they are currently being misused and that they contribute to the precariousness of young people, as explained by the 'Precarious scholarships' campaign. We believe that it is important to have a single register that aggregates all the conventions so that we can have data on them. That would facilitate the work to know where the main problems are and to be able to reverse them. So, first of all, let us make it clear that we fully agree on the campaign they are going to spread and we also encourage the Generalitat to take real control to prevent bad practices. We want to emphasize a number of questions about the training practices of young university women. They are an unfair reality, because with the excuse of learning we are validating free work. If we want young people to learn from real work experiences, they have to pay for the work they do. Lack of pay causes it not to be counted as work experience, as they are not workers. And, therefore, they do not discharge themselves in social security. In addition, there is a problem in this form of recruitment, as in many cases training contracts are drawn up to carry out structural tasks within a company. The work they do is usually generic, and this prevents the student from specializing and forming what he or she is studying. But, despite knowing that they are generic, the fellows have been at the forefront of the work during the Covid pandemic, knowing that they have had little training and experience and so I did want to thank them from here for all the effort and immense work they have done throughout this season. And finally, if you do practice in cities where you don't live – whether in our country or abroad – the precariousness that this situation implies causes you to have no life where you live while you are practicing. That is why we call for the collective's demands to be borne in mind in the face of the Government's inaction and for its demands to be put into effect in order to put an end to the precariousness of young people, even when they are interns or in training practices. Therefore, we ask you – although late and with the final limit of parliamentary term on the horizon – to move to action and for once take our young people into account so that they can carry out their life projects in the best possible and much better way than they are today. Think, moreover, that you have half the work done, since in the last year many of these issues that we are discussing here have been worked on and adopted endless motions for resolutions – and many of them unanimously – in the Committee on Youth Policy without being transferred to government action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.265.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.266.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, I listened to her very carefully. I listened to him do an X-ray – no, not a X-ray – on the youth situation, but introduce some aspects that we can share with them of the structural deficiencies around the young woman who has seen our country for many years. I have listened to her situating various aspects, very focused on the field of occupation, decent work, with a specific distance on practical contracting – then we will enter –, on emotional attention, on coordination with the local world, on male violence, on young LGBTI, on the right to vote and participation, as we continue to speak..., on the difficulties of emancipation, which are basically bad in two aspects, which is work and habitat. Of course, I could do an exercise – I'll do it, there'll be a part that I'll do it – which is explain the government's action, because I'm close to explaining the government's action. Now, what I do also have to do is a surprise point; a surprise point, basically for some aspects that you and I can share, and we certainly share, but it seems to me that it must be honest at the time of planting... Of course, when we talk about decent work and young people, when we are aware that the normal marque, which is precarious, whose skills we are dealing with and how we are dealing with the working reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party; how these labor reforms explain the temporality taxes, explain the partiality taxes, explain the low wages, and how... – it can be agreed or it can be disagreeable – I aspire to power, from this Parliament, to design the policies, the standard marquee in the field of work. In short, I am very brief; because I believe that in the preparation of this inquiry I am sure that you have not been aware or have come out of it..., some element of contradiction respects this – respect this – because, in the end, I think that the proposal has been brought forward I don't know how many times, it has been approved in this Parliament I don't know how many times, but we can't make the normal change. Even so, as long as..., and in a very specific aspect, as is the practice contract, and as it is not a high-ranking woman to Social Security, and you must be aware that Catalonia operates two job inspections, and acts in a very coordinated way, huh? And we work, we work a lot of hands, because there are Consorci de la Inspectión de Treball; but are you aware of who has the skills in the field of inspection when it is around Social Security? Aren't you aware? It's the State Labour Inspectorate. That's why it's called Social Security Labour Inspectorate. And that... that I find very good, huh? And besides, I share some of the aspects. We've been working on it. We have a specific work group at the Labour Relations Council. Right now, there was an agreement... because, in the end, we like it or not, we have to exercise the skills we have, and one of the areas is the social dialogue. There was an agreement between youth unions and employers that in the end was not signed because there was a problem at the last moment, because we worked in this area, and it is deserved by the parties, because the dialogue is deserved by the parties. But suddenly this look, if I may, faded. Or, at least, if we place it, we place it all. We'll find everything. And I found myself missing to put it all together, so I think it's worth putting some of the things together. From here, I want to focus on some of the aspects that you have placed on the work that has been done by the Government, on the work that will be done by the Government, on how we approach it and how we want to follow it. We are well aware that we have many reptiles, that there are structural elements that require changes that unfortunately right now – right now, and must be placed in this environment – are not in our hands, competitively. We'll follow as much as we can, we'll agree as much as we can, we'll work as hard as we can. I think we can agree on this: reforms must be repealed and we must move from promises to deeds. We need to move from promises to deeds. I agree: decent wages, stable employment, adequate working conditions, without discrimination. A quality job that empowers people, that redistributes better returns and resources and offers opportunities. In this area, 2020: 51,896,000,311 euros. This is what has been intended for active policies directed only at young people. In this context, we have, from the occupation referents, that element of lack of coordination with the local world, that element of leaving the local world unlearned, that element that allows the local world to have eighty-nine-new effects of technical reference personnel of youth occupation for the orientation and the follow-up of young people in a situation of duress, as well as the field work with the different agents of each territory working with adolescents and young people with special vulnerability. I also place it: when you have limited resources you have to prioritize special vulnerabilities to facilitate the socio-occupational integration of young people and improve their occupation. Increase in the youth self-employment line: €13_million in 2020. What does that mean? So, start a project, you have a direct help of 10,000 euros, to secure this start of the project. The nine opportunities; this direct look at the young person, who as any citizen needs a second, a third, a new opportunity, because we all need new opportunities to respect. A program that needs the SOC Youth Occupation Area and that works together with Education. There are sets of nine opportunities that are Education and there are sets of nine opportunities that are SOC, 10_million inversion, and, what's more important: a level of job placement higher than 50_per_cent. And if we add the back to the format system, which is also key, we exceed 80_per_cent. Unique projects, with 19,5_million. Unique projects that they give are occupied by young people who are not occupied or integrated into the education or training system, which include orientation actions, professional training, non-working practices and which allows for a sorting, and, also, international mobility. Young people in practice; a way in which we also, from the beneficiaries of the Youth Guarantee Programme, give opportunities for the contracting of those we have abandoned to the assemblies and local councils, on the part of these, so that they can contract these young people and develop their professional experience. Or work and training, which this year we introduced a new variant that we had never introduced and which we are especially proud of, which is a direct line– work and training are the names formerly called "occupational plans–..., and a direct line for any young person who has passed for the protection of the Generality, giving more opportunities around than transition to emancipation. We could talk about these lines. I've set it up. It has also placed me in the element of emotional attention and we share – I won't share the to – but we do share the look that the pandemic and especially the confinement to which it has generated a harder emotional salvation situation has followed the youth of our country. It's as easy as imagining to have said, divided, dinou, twenties, twenty-three years and to be in a confinement. And that's it, it's as easy as empathy. What happened? He has worked on many aspects, and some aspect has been recognized internationally, as the program that we developed during the specific, specific, psychological care confinement that has received awards from UNESCO. I don't know... that it's certainly better, I'm not sure, always, but that I have UNESCO recognition as a good practice I think it's important. As then also the Confinats portal. and to strengthen the psychological attention and many other aspects. Then, in the wake of the reply, I will also talk about some elements that must also be placed around the education in the classroom, around the youth's role at the exit of the confinement and around the youth's role to guarantee children's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.267.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.268.0	In this sense, it was an example of this being...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.269.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.270.0	...with all the work done for the young people of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.271.0	Thank you very much. To make the reply, the Member has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.272.0	Thank you, President. When I saw him sitting here, counselor, I said, "That's it. Let's start with a little high dye, like prepotence. I thought this was gonna happen. More for the tone than for the situation of what you say that, in part, we can agree, as you said in the beginning. I could tell you that, in the end, we've probably been talking about half the same thing. You say: "The powers of the state have them, like almost everything else when you want to throw the brown out. I, when I have to ask the state for explanations, go to the state and ask them there, that for that the competences are there. When I come here to Parliament, I talk about the competences that Parliament has and I talk about the work that the Generalitat is doing, which is why we are here. If we can talk about data on what they are doing from the state, we could talk about that the total number of ERTOs in Catalonia is 98,137 that have affected 727,157 workers; that Catalonia concentrates 26_percent of those affected by ERTO from all over Spain, that is, that the majority of ERTOs are here, supporting the workers of Catalonia. And luck, huh? , that you have been able to maintain the ERTE and you can maintain the jobs, because if it were for you, we would have a high rate of incalculable unemployment right now, seeing the support you have been giving to the companies. And, above all, that is, with the help they were giving over the Internet, that every two by three were hanging, like the help of the self-employed. From the State, I repeat to see if you understand a little what we are doing, a work table has been created, from the Injuve, from the National Council of State Youth, with the Ministry of Labour to bring that youth vision to work and start working a decent work plan from the vision of youth, which here seems to be not. Work is under way on an agreement to work with the Labour Inspectorate for the fraud mailbox, that all youth can have that tool by hand and also action campaigns. We could say that at the state level different things are being done; maybe you don't know, I don't say no, but they are being done and it will always be the state's fault for everything being done. But, I repeat, what work plans have been made here? If young people are barely out of work, they do not even have the right to housing. If we, from the state, like here we have been supporting that we work and fight that to regulate the rents. We are also trying to carry out as soon as possible paralysis..., that is, to end the most harmful parts of labor reform and there we are going to need the maximum support in Congress and hopefully that too will happen. And all this social work, all this work we're doing from the Ministry of Labour, we're doing it with all the social entities, which here in Catalonia hasn't happened and you only do it with employers and big companies. We could and could keep talking, what happens, then I won't have time anymore, but as always wait until the last moment and I would like to emphasize something. That is, 20_percent of the young people currently live emancipated, 26_percent cannot be emancipated for economic reasons, 120_percent of the wage of their life must allocate it to the rent and have suffered more ERTS on 29,6_percent of those 24_per_cent and this is the data of the Spanish Youth Council. And it tells me a lot of data, but what have you really done to reverse these policies of years? They have been ruling in Catalonia for three years, but they already come from previous governments. So it's very good to always throw the ball for Madrid. It is very good to say that it is the fault of the state, but that they have been doing politics for years in Catalonia, having the power in their hands and we are getting worse and no matter the pandemic, is that we are getting worse and worse in Catalonia. And there is no way and you come here very happy and very happy that you have put 50_million in youth policies, which were already budgeted, which has not been an extra. There hasn't been a previous extra. And then he will tell us about the activities of the lleure, which have already come out in decrees and have come out approved, because they had approval by a maximum parliamentary chamber, but really, that the youth is having a bad time. At the level of mental health, at the level of work, at the level of the need to be able to live. And, yes, it would be good if from Catalonia – as well as from the state – he went to one, instead of being fighting himself, to work on one to find solutions as soon as possible for the young people of Catalonia and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.273.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I did not say anything to him because, obviously, I understood that he did not give it in bad faith, but, if I may, remind him that we are dealing with you in Parliament. You have the word to answer the question of The Homrani Counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.274.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you know it's hard that... I think my tot is capable of a lot of things, but of prepotence, no. And I find it hard to use this word. I know it's hard, and at last, when you say throw the brown out. Throwing the brown out of it is, I, the only reflection I have placed on it is that there are certain areas in which decisions are to be made if decisions are not made. Because you, with the explanation you've made, have placed a panorama in which young Catalans are in a much worse situation than young people in the State. So the situation would say it's not this. That's not the element. Even so, it has made me feel like we have a social dialogue with employers and big companies. It seems to me, of course, that there is a lack of respect, because I have explained to him: Labour Relations Council, where there are unions and employers, because the social dialogue – and you know it and defence it, too, the Ministry of Labour of which he has spoken so much – is done in this area, and we participate in the National Youth Council. Not the Injuve, not an organ of the government, but an organ of the young man, of the young man organized, who is to participate. You've also placed me as a great example of great ERTO management because of Covid major force. Like I said on an active and passive basis, I think it's a very good decision to make. Just as I have also asked that it cannot be that we are now, in the middle of nowhere, and that we do not know that the 30th generation will pass and that it should be given a much clearer continuity. But you've made me feel the way you've made me feel, I'm aware of what happened in SEPE in Catalonia, where there are more than fifty thousand people who haven't yet received the benefit since March... [[Someone says, "Not the guaranteed income.]] , – since March –, more than fifty_ thousand people who have not received the benefit from March – from March. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ma'am, I didn't talk while you were in surgery, I listened to him curously. Since March. Guaranteed income is charged per month and a half of the resolution. Guaranteed income has increased the universe in these two years by 120_per_cent. And these are facts that you know and can follow. I think, well, let's look at each other. And from here on out, I've been talking about the competitions that are nearby. And you also said something that's not true. And I have to tell him it's not true. He said to me: "The 50_million were already presupposed. No; they weren't all supposed, we made increments – we made increments. There are elements that were not presupposed for young people. Clearly, and that's simple. And he can see that. And he can see that. And as soon as you tell the Faristol, I'll explain to the Faristol that it's not like that. That, for example, in the area of enterprise, 3_millions were assumed and we went to more than 10. That in training and work for extolled young people were not presupposed and were allocated 3_million euros. As in the whole realm of the lleure... which I was going to explain, because I also devoted part of my intervention to explaining the policies that we are doing. Now, I think it's dishonest, and I say so, to explain the problems without explaining the marks and where we can place them. There are a lot of things... I think we might agree. But if we get into a logic – that I find normal, that the elections are getting closer – but that is not really constructive, it has to be settled. Just as I said: "With the young LGTBI it is that you have a responsibility. I think we've got a lot of good news tomorrow. We've done a lot, because we introduced him to the pre-project of last year's fever law. And finally tomorrow – if all goes well, and thanks to all the parliamentary groups, just like the ERTO are also thanks to many parliamentary groups that have given support to the Government of the State to push them forward, I mean, this happens to Congress and Parliament – the law will be approved for equal treatment and non-discrimination. A law that in the very law of struggle against the LGTBI, in the additional provision second– if I do not fail the memory–, now even doubt whether it is the second or the third, has found that it is necessary in order to be able to hold the sanctioning regime. And we'll finally have it. The fever, huh? He's done his job and set it up. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And what we're worried about is defending the rights of young LGTBI and non-young LGTBI that I think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.275.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.276.0	...that we share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.277.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the abandonment of social policies]] [[300-00349/12]] After this question, let's go to the next question, which is the question to the Government on the abandonment of social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Naomi of the Street has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.278.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, all, Councillor, Members of Parliament. Today, December 16, 2020, I conducted this inquiry at the last plenary session of the legislature to refer me to the abandonment of social policies by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Interestingly, the last question I made in the last legislature also had as its central theme the social disprotection of the Generalitat. That inquiry resulted in a motion, which curiously coincided with the coup to democracy on 6 and 7 September, and while the Government of the Generalitat was carrying out that coup to democracy, Citizens put to the vote a motion in which we asked for better financing of guaranteed income of citizens to combat poverty; we asked to reverse the setback in the attention to dependency, reducing waiting lists; we also asked for the update of the social services portfolio, which has taken place since 2011, as you know, expired, which has caused companies in the residential sector not to cover the costs and that the economic ratios and modules that the Generalitat imposes on them in that expired social services portfolio translates into a precarious working conditions of workers, and, among others, because we also requested sufficient budget to deploy the Children's Act. Unfortunately, more than three years after that motion, we not only remain the same, but we are worse than then. How has the social system improved with its management, counselor? Because we cannot improve, for example, the lives of older people with cuts or being below the Spanish average of social investment per inhabitant; this is not achieved. In the same year, the Unit's Observatory noted that the economic importance of social services in Catalonia remains below the State average in rights, planning and organization. And, due to its management, Counsellor Homrani, we are no longer the second autonomous community with the worst waiting lists in dependence, as we were in the past legislature, but we have become the worst: Catalonia has the highest rate of careless elderly people in the whole country, Spain, with a 46_per_cent higher than the national average, according to data provided by the Ministry of Health. Nor can poverty be combated by being below the Spanish average in investment in children's policies, as the consequence is that, unfortunately, we are also champions in child poverty. In 2018, 28_per_cent of children under sixteen years of age were at risk of poverty. Just like this, then, seemed little to them, because in 2019 we moved on to 31,1_per_cent. And, look, I'm giving you the latest data that the Idescat offers, which is from the exercise of the year 2019, before the arrival of the Covid-19; so I don't want to imagine how we should be now. If we talk about poverty in general, the poverty rate in Catalonia, the year you were in office, hit the record for the last fifteen years. In 2018, for the first time in democracy, more than half of Catalans expressed great difficulty in reaching the end of the month, a 52.7_per_cent according to the Idescat. As for the occupation, which was supposed to be your strong, counselor, you have done nothing to improve the Servei d'Occupació de Catalunya. The SOC still does not serve as a job integration tool. Fixed, in Catalonia you do not reach 1_per_cent of people who find work thanks to SOC; SOC's job offers have been reduced by 72_per_cent in a decade. And let us not speak of the self-employed, others of the great ones affected by their management. The problem is that you have followed the wake of your predecessor. His Government had been more concerned about continuing to generate the social divide and protecting criminals rather than protecting the most vulnerable population in Catalonia. When the October 1, 2017 sentence came out, you only cared about criminals convicted not only of sedition, but also of embezzlement of public funds, and those funds also included social policy funds. And you will remember that from Citizens we urge you to personate yourself in the cause that would result from that misappropriation, claiming the money that the Court of Auditors determined, and you have not done so. You have not only not moved a finger to recover the social funds taken away by your predecessor, but now the parliamentary groups supporting your Government are bringing to this plenary a proposal in which they are literally calling for the amnesty of the crimes of prevarication, falsification and embezzlement of public revenues linked to October 1, 2017. And, it should be noted, instead of worrying about recovering the embezzled money from social affairs, what they do is call for impunity for those convicted of embezzlement of public funds, funds that should have been used to alleviate poverty, for example, or to improve residences. And, moreover, yesterday we knew that the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, during this year, has investigated its department for the irregular use of public funds and for the treatment of favors for some SOC chanchullete, and that it has, therefore, communicated to the prosecution the conclusions of this investigation. And it is that, sincerely, counselor, in the face of the government's non-existent self-criticism, it is very difficult to put oneself in its place and empathize with its management. If they continue along that path, Catalonia will not only never recover from this decade of abandonment of social policies and economic decline, but will sink even further. And you have not been characterized either by being a realistic government or by being a dialogue government, or by being a self-critical government, and it will not be because we have not tried it from Citizens, with the holding of several specific plenarys in social matters, such as the plenary of children, the plenary of the prioritization of the social agenda or the plenary on real Catalonia, or with the countless motions and motions for resolutions and up to eight laws that we have tabled that affect your council, to which you have ignored. And that's how it works. And that is what has happened, Mr. El Homrani, that your lewdness and mismanagement has made the crisis of the Covid-19 come at the worst time for Catalans; it has come at a time when Catalonia was already..., was drowning in social disprotection, with a social system virtually dismantled for years by you. You can put the excuse that the first wave of the Covid-19 caught them off guard, but what happened in this second wave in the residences has no name. To prevent what is happening again in the residences, you just had to do one thing, only one, which is to pay in time for the contingency plan that the Government approved in July, before the summer, so that the residences would approach the second wave prepared, with EPIs, with test, making sectorizations and, therefore, with the ability to make isolations, and did not do so. In mid-November the residences were still waiting for payment. The second wave came before the money was to be used to prepare them. They left the abandoned residences in the first wave and left them unprotected in the second. And worst of all, nothing surprises us anymore, counselor. As a result of the information published about the investigation for alleged corruption that splatters people linked to Convergence and Esquerra, it seems that for you to avoid death was secondary, because you would be more likely to have a series of friends profit and cash, with all the drama that lived in the residences. And I want to say something to you, counselor, from Citizens we are not going to stop until we know whether, behind that insistence on denying the help of the EMU in the disinfection of residences to replace the one by private companies, there is any kind of profit or economic interest at the cost of the loss of life of the elderly. And, Mr. El Homrani, I have lost track of the times that we have asked you from the opposition to leave, resign and let go of someone who is prepared and willing to save lives, save families and save jobs. And, in fact, even his own party came to admit that if he didn't stop him it was because he couldn't. And he's got a few months left in office. And fear gives me, because every time you make a decision, some collective suffers the consequences. And we ask you, Mr. El Homrani, to do something in these remaining months that you have not done so far: pay attention to the experts – and with « experts I do not refer to Mr. Vendrell, I refer to the real professionals. And we want you to stop improvising, to stop propaganda and to treat those citizens rigorously and responsibly. What they need is for once – for once – the Government of the Generalitat to stop thinking about its own and start thinking for everyone. And if you don't know how to manage, if it's great, at least listen to the experts, listen to the opposition, which has worked what you haven't worked in ten years to fill your inaction in social policies. And you will not be able to say that we have not tried, from all the parliamentary opposition groups, and of course from Citizens, the main opposition group, which is the one that has presented the most proposals and social laws in this Parliament, and the pity is that you have ignored everything we proposed to you. And that's why Catalonia goes as it goes, plunged into an economic and social decadence from which it will never come out as long as nationalism continues to rule in the Generalitat. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.279.0	To answer the question, has the word The Homrani Counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.280.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., street MP, I had already made it clear that this inquiry would be another example of female interrogations throughout this legislature, of the interrogations they did before. You said that you closed the door while democracy was being held, with an inquiry into social deprivation; later, the first inquiry that held my title; you also made the question of social inaction, and you had to close the question of social abandonment, with a poti-poti, huh? I mean, when you talk about nationalism, I think you should stay ahead of the miracle; I think there is no more clear exercise of nationalism than you do – with a poti-poti of everything, even there..., without the slightest exercise of rigour that you should ask a Member of this House, because you even spoke of: "And yesterday you were pointed out by the Anti-Fraud Office. Miss De la Calle, have you bothered to read anything? And I'm asking that. Yesterday the Antifrau Office drew up a report of the cases that have been working: in the first half of 2015, it found that one is linked to the SOC – certainly one of 2015–, that the SOC has returned – because I will not do this exercise that you are doing, if you allow me: "The whole shadow of doubt pulls, that, come, liem-la –, and I say because it is 2015 but the SOC has returned, and, for the information we have, with the response of the SOC they have closed the investigation. But good. Because they explain the investigations they've opened. But good, huh? And I don't have any interest, because it's 2015. It's 2015. But, well, "let's get it right." Come on, come on. Well, I don't explain the whole Volhov thing anymore; he says, "Come on, let's read it," let's read it. This is the exercise that I think the less the citizens of this country deserve, that is to link the social needs, all the challenges they have in this area, because of the big broc and it's already there. Because, in the end, you see here not to make an inquiry, you don't go to make the inquiry, we're still honest: go record a video for Twitter, and in this case very much thought that they would start... It's already, it's nothing; if I find it legitimate, legitimate. Well, lawful, legitimate... I can do it, I'd just miss it – I'd just miss it. There's all the right. From here, I think that the one thing that comes close to me, if you're talking about social policies, is to explain what we've done, is to explain the reptes that we have, that we're a lot of people, is to explain where we're going, is to explain the work that is done by the Catalan system of social services, which, by the way, yesterday we couldn't be, but yesterday we had an example of how a member of his parliamentary group didn't understand the Catalan system of social services, didn't understand the three pillars on which it is based, that it's the Administration of the General, that it's the local administrations, that it's normal that they don't understand them, because they don't have any type of responsibility, and that's the third sector, as it works together. No, you don't have to. From here, place it there. In these two years, 60_million tariff increments. I'm thinking of professionals. From here, you know the rules of the game. There is one thing that is said to be collective bargaining. Let's press it to the maximum. But 60 million with fees, orders, without talking about the extras, because you... : « The contingency plan... The contingency plan, the payments to the residents are, in the 95_per_cent, facts, it is not... But it is that, besides, it is very thanks to me; it is thanks to me because you, who have responsibilities in more than one territory, who have not approved any contingency plan, have not intended anything, in the same way that we have guaranteed 100_per_cent of the payment at the time of the pandemic. In the other territories, 80_per_cent. There was no contingency plan or anything. But, well, let's do it – let's do it, let's do it. Come on... Why? 'Cause what he cares about is his one-minute size that they're on Twitter and that... And I say, and I think that here we have to self-criticize everyone in this House, that in the end the convinced followers look at us. But, well, that's all right. And I'm saying we're all self-criticizing, huh? It's all right, it's all right. The other element, the municipal world, as we work with the municipal world. Look, I got here and the program contract had 217_millions and the end and the program contract has 253_millions per year, without counting about 70_millions of specific Covid additions for this year. So that's it. What do we want more? It's clear. What more do we need? It's clear. The two years I was responsible there was never such a high investment in dependence. We're over two years old, 1,500_million. What more do we need? It's clear. If the same government of the State finds that its funding medium is a 17_per_cent; Catalonia is 12– Catalonia is a 12. But so much so, if you're not even listening to me, because you already have the answer clear. And nothing happens, it forms part of the political game. But I think it's also good that we tell each other – it's good that we tell each other. You also place the other pillar of the Catalan system of social services in the fabric of the third sector: more than €400 million in support in these two years. That's it – that's it. What more do we need? Yes, because it forms part of the system, because they have concerted seats, because they have subsidized seats. Yesterday they completed the part that we lacked in the support of the Covid, that it is those entities that do not have concerted places, that do not have places between the portfolio and that they have needed. In this plenary, just this week, the strategic platform of social services was approved for unanimity, not for you – that too – but for the whole fabric: local world, third sector, trade unions and employers: everyone, professional colleges. Can you be aware of what it means to find this level of consensus, what it means to find the elements, to situate the aspects? He's done it. And that we have reptes, it's clear. That the situation is complex, it's clear. But as you don't go here to talk about the reptes, you don't go here to talk about the complex situation; you go here to make a video for a tweet... Nothing happens– nothing happens. But I want to talk about this – I want to talk about this. I want to talk about the 3,500-seat increment we've made. And, yes, we certainly don't do things, we don't do things like Castella and Lleó, who, to get people out of the waiting list of dependence, give them a 50-euro benefit. Because, yeah, we're dragging them. But that's not giving answers to people's dependency situations. And that's not what we do – and that's not what we do. And in this plenary, I personally said: "And this year the lists will grow. Because we have decided to block places, that we pay – block places, that we pay – before the situation of Covid. And we did it – and we did it – and I said it publicly. And they assume..., because decisions that are necessary in one environment have repercussions in another – have repercussions in another. And you said to me, "The SOC, which doesn't work... There's been a job from the SOC that I asked at the city halls. I can't ask them because they have no element of government. But ask him. All the paradigm shift that represents the decree of strategies, all the work that is being made of bottom up policies, all the work of direct trust in the territory, with the agents of the territory, who are..., each territory is different, which must be able to develop. And that's what we've done, and we'll keep doing it, because it's the line in which it's done and it's the way to work. You put it to me: "We don't talk about autonomies anymore. Miri, we have allocated more than 260_million support to the autonomous – more than 260_million support to the autonomous – while the person who collects the quotes from them has raised the quotes. And that's it. Because you are the hortelano dog, who neither eats nor lets eat. Because it places me in all responsibilities, but they don't want to give us any tools. And that, that's all, that's his political project, that's all. Now, while in this country there are more than 180,000 currency cards distributed to guarantee the groves of all children at school, at the open centres, at the socio-educational intervention service, in other territories where you govern what is ugly was to give them Telepizza. And that's it. And it's an absolutely different way of looking at reality. And that's it. And in this sense, we don't share our eyes. And I find it normal, because a person, a political group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.281.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.282.0	...who rules with Vox is impossible for us to share his social gaze.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.283.0	Thank you. To make the line up, she's got a new turn on the congresswoman. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.284.0	Counselor, he says that this inquiry is an example of the interpellations we have been doing since the last legislature, which are always the same... Well, of course, because if you do nothing, we will continue to ask the same thing. Why, if not during its management, have social indicators worsened in all areas? Why do they have mania for you? Well, no. Because his management has been terrible. Of course, he said to me: "You do not have the correctness of the data you give. The data we have given are from the Idescat, are from the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia. When the Statistical Institute of Catalonia says that child poverty worsens..., I don't know, it's their data. Then perhaps, then, if you believe that the Idescat has no rigor you should talk to them. And it's curious, isn't it? , because one thing that has characterized you throughout the legislature is the contempt with which you treat us, which you have treated my parliamentary group. And that contempt, I think it hurts you more than it does us. To me, honestly, it doesn't affect me and I, really, what I think... – don't I? Because it says, "You come here to make videos, don't you? , disregarding the parliamentary work of Citizens – I believe that because its management does not have defense its only resource is to attack us, right? I think that..., I understand that you are upset, that you despise us, because it must not be easy to have a group in the opposition that constantly reminds you what you as a government do not do; I understand that it must not be easy to swallow the passing of a law that registered Citizens so that the Generalitat, its department, would stop getting into the pensions of orphans, children and girls who had lost their parents, who had not only had the misfortune of falling under their guardianship, but above that they had to see how you stayed with your orphan's pensions and made them pay for the food and for the roof. [[Greetings.]] And I am aware of the anger he must have felt when we not only discovered it but forced them by law – by law – to stop getting their hands on orphan's pensions. I am aware of the anger that you must feel every time a law of Citizens enters the Register, because I remind you that, with the limited resources that a parliamentary group has compared to those that have its councillor, Citizens have introduced more social laws than those that have presented their Government or department. A law on the accessibility and security of parks and children's areas, a law on the free provision of textbooks, a law on improving the quality of the provision of social and health services, two laws on improving the protection of victims of gender-based violence, a law on the prevention and treatment of child abuse and abuse, a law on ensuring basic supplies in the home, a law on reducing the tax burden on low-income IRPF, a law to stop, as I said, stealing money from orphans and, well, I recognize that in this legislature we have not introduced a law to restore the financial benefit of dependent children because we have already done so in the Congress of Deputies so that all Spanish families can benefit from it. And I understand that it must be very frustrating that it is Citizens who have managed, in Spain, and especially in Catalonia, to stop the forced sterilization, not consented, of women, because I remind you that during the period from 2006 to 2016, the last one of which is data, in Catalonia there were 167 procedures of sterilization of people with modified ability to work, and that will stop being done thanks to the struggle of Cermi and Citizens, who brought that law to Congress. And I understand that it should not be graceful for Citizens to promote and approve the opening in this Parliament of a commission of study on policies of large people so that entities, users, companies in the sector and parliamentary groups could have a forum where the problems of the elderly could be addressed, since the dialogue with the Government because it did not work, as has been seen in the crisis of the Covid. And I understand that you see an aggravation when we present all these social proposals because comparisons are hateful and leave you in a very bad place as a government. And, look, he's been trying to breastfeed the Social Services Strategic Plan, a strategic plan that comes seven years late. And I ask you, counselor, what is the point of a new strategic plan for social services if you lack sufficient financial resources? And be honest with the citizen for once and explain that there are no improvements in the increases in service coverage or the number of service staff until the implementation of the second phase of the plan, i.e., up to two or three years from now – be honest, counselor. Its obligation was to update the social services portfolio by expanding it, and it has not. And look, in conclusion, the Catalans cannot wait any longer for you to put aside the process and stop strengthening the state of well-being, those social rights that were so hard to achieve and that you have carried on in a few years. And if there is one thing that can unite us to all Catalans is the recovery of coexistence and of the [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] social policies. And there is a lot of well-being that can be achieved from the Generalitat if political priorities change, and if, instead of investing in national construction and chiringuitos, public policies aimed at the well-being of the citizen are invested...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.285.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.286.0	...real politics and for everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.287.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.288.0	Deputy, what do you want me to say to her – what do you want me to say to her? You're talking about "minus," "constant attack. I think... please, just look at it, look at it, and then we see what's all the less, what's all the constant attack, what's all the rage, which has also placed this word. What do you want me to say? Surely you don't agree with the Strategic Social Services Platform? I voted against it. Now, don't touch it. Why? Because they had a card of one hundred and four basic areas– one hundred and four basic areas. Logical and normal, huh? , because you don't have representation in the local world. They had a letter from the social entities. It's also normal, because they don't have it either, because they use it when they want, because they have a partisan use of these, because... And that's it. You say... the other question: we're still strict. I didn't say at all that the data you said wasn't strict. He's going back to the video and I think you'll have to accept that I didn't say that. What I'm saying is I didn't have any kind of rigor, and he didn't answer me. It's when you wanted to cast the shadow of the suspect talking about anti-fraud and talking about my management. And he didn't answer me, because he didn't dare. Because he's done what they know how to do – what they know how to do and he's already there. And then he'll also come out, and he'll come out in the video. So much if I don't mind. And that's the opposite – that's the opposite – it's the opposite of the fight against corruption and transparency, it's the opposite, it's the opposite of what you do, it's the opposite, and it shows, and it shows day by day – day by day. He made me a species of law-to-law listing, of law-to-law proposals. Laws don't go far – laws don't go far. And that... it turns out that they have many laws... but they're no longer the forces of government, it's usually very expensive. Because they don't fit. They're not... there's no law proposal to hold a headline on the day that the present is the title of the law. It's not working, that's what it is. And that, if you want me to tell you, is parliamentary debate. It's neither pre-potency, nor less, nor attack, nor anger. And that's it. And it was only to listen to you, all in all, with the ways. It's all right. Say, you put it that way. I've been explaining it to him, local world, I've been explaining it; the Generality's reversal, I've been explaining it; I support the third sector, I've been explaining the lines in which we work. And you can share them or you can't share them. But it's either they share them or they don't, because they don't do this analysis. Because you – and in the end in all your questions end up coming out – are here basically for a question: why don't you share an objective of many citizens and citizens of this country. And there are other forces that do not share this objective. I'd miss more. But they're not just here for that. From here, miri, I'm not going in. I could have taken over all the territorial governments where they took part, located... I told them I wouldn't go into that feeling. Just as I will not enter the logic of Castella and Lleó and of a fifty_euro loan to believe in a person on the dependency list. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I won't. No, but you compare me to the State, you place me in a race. I'll explain: this is done... [[Widow's remorse.]] Madam Member, when you spoke I was quiet. I think this exercise is very good to do. You put me in a row. I'll explain why they're here. It is that I explain that to the socio-sanitary sphere, for example, which gives answers to many people in other places exists in the intermediate sphere. And it's gone, and it's all right. And I explain it, and my goal is to keep working for the better. And that's it. And I'm sure it's everyone's object that he has political responsibilities. And I think that in the end the tones, the rage, the attacks and the less-speakers, that each is searching his or her home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.289.0	Thank you, Counselor. Once this inquiry is over and the points are discussed this late, let's proceed to the votes. We called for a vote. They ask them, in any case, to prove it. Yes, Mrs. Roldan? [[Pause.]] That's what I was going to say, ask them to check if they're sure they're close enough to vote. [[Long break.]] Now let's check it out, see that we don't deconcentrate them. [[Pause.]] All right. Thanks to the maid service, as always. [[Greetings.]] Let's vote on the points that have been dealt with during today's day. Before doing so, however, the record that the ninety-nine Members and Members of Parliament have delegated their vote, twenty-three have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two – who are you – will vote face-to-face. Let's vote, then, the points that correspond to today's session. [[Decree-Law No 46/2020 of 24 November on urgent administrative, tax and financial control measures (continuation)]] [[203-00072/12]] And in the first place, we do so with the dott point, which is the vote on the validation of Decree Law 46/2020 of 24 November, of urgent measures of administrative character, taxation and financial control. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics –, 4 against and 65 abstentions. I am now responding to the House asking if any parliamentary groups – yes? – wants to process this law decree as the law project. [[Pause.]] So let's vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 61 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics–, 8 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of government action (continuation)]] [[302-00272/12]] Let's now vote on the next point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the balance of government action. I'm listening to the separate voting petitions, we'll vote first place point number 6. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 22 telematics–, 40 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics – with no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the government's two-year and half inaction balance (continuation)]] [[302-00276/12]] And now we vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into the government's two-and-a-half-year inaction balance. I am listening to the petitions made by the parliamentary groups, we will vote in the first place on the zero point of the motion. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics – 8 abstentions. We now vote on points i.1, i.5 and 13. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics–, no abstention. We now vote on points 2 and 3. The vote begins. At this point there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. Let us therefore vote again on these points: i.2 and i.3. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, we will vote again a third time at the end. We will now vote on point i.4. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics – with no abstention. And now we're voting points i.6, i.7, i.15 and i.19. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 77 against – corresponding to 55 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting for points 8 and 9. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics–, 12 abstentions. We now vote on points 10, 11 and 12. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 69 against and 25 abstentions. And we're voting now on the point and.17. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now for the point and.18. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics–, 4 abstentions. Let's go back to voting this point. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point ii.1. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 22 telematics–, 17 abstentions. We now vote on point ii.2, letter c. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. We're voting point 2.3 now. The vote begins. At this point there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. We vote again, therefore, this point. The vote begins. The same was true: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, this point too we will vote again and for the third time at the end. We now vote on points 2.4 and 2.15. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 77 against and 17 abstentions. We now vote on points 2.5, 2.7 and 2.8. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against, 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.6. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. And now we vote on points 2.11, 2.12 and 2.13. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, and 22 telematics–, no abstention. We're voting point 2.14 now. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 48 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 22 telematics – 21 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against, no abstentions. Let's leave now a space of two minutes, as you know, because you can do the telematic vote, and we'll repeat the three-point votes in which a tie has occurred again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-16-6803.290.0	We're calling for a vote; we're hoping they'll carry the telematic results, huh? [[Long break.]] Well, let's go vote on the three points in which a double tie had been made. And they are respecting the motion following the government's inquiry into the government's two-year and half inaction balance, points 1.2 and 1.3, for one band, 1.18 from the other, and 2.3. Let's start with points 1.2 and 1.3. The vote begins. These points were approved by 65 votes in favour, 64 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting point 1.18 now. The vote begins. This point was also approved by 65 votes to 64, with 4 abstentions. And finally we vote on point 2.3. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 64, with four abstentions. There are no more points to vote. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you.
