ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Ask the Government about the use of co-official languages in cultural events]] [[310-00355/12]] And we're asking the government with an oral answer. The first question to be answered by the Government is about the use of co-official languages in cultural events. And the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I would like to thank you, because you have publicly acknowledged what we have been denouncing for so long from Citizens, and that TV3 is a television at the service of separatist politicians. You explained, quite naturally, that it gives a touch of attention to TV3 when you see that they are speaking in Spanish. I assume you're referring to interviews with Otegui and other terrorists. But it is curious that you are offended more by the language you use than by the treatment of stars given to terrorists on TV3. Counsellor, do you consider it normal to pay attention to TV3 when you see that they are speaking in the mother tongue of most Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.3.0	To answer the question you have the word Culture Counsellor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, Catalonia has its own language..., three own languages, in reality: the Catalan language, the orange occupancy and the Catalan sign language; these are Catalonia's own languages. And culture fights mostly in its own language, meaning the harm of the many good manifestations in other languages, in the three-hundred languages spoken there, among them the castle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.5.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.6.0	Nationalists consider Catalonia to be theirs, and they say it without any means: "The streets will always be ours, the schools will always be ours and TV3 will always be ours. But that's why Citizens were born, to face nationalism and to make it clear that the streets are everyone's, that the schools are everyone's and that TV3 is everyone's. And the languages are also of all; the Catalan, the Orange and the Spanish are of all. And from Ciutadans we won't allow Spanish to be lost or to be brought closer to the catalan and the aranes, because we wouldn't do them any favors if we left their defense in the hands of the radicals. You said language makes us what we are. But Catalonia doesn't have a language. Catalonia, if it's character for something it's to have three languages; three languages, lady counselor. And most Catalans have served them with total normality and we see it as rich, and not as a problem. The problem is that separatist policies impose monolingualism on school and public media. The problem is that nationalist policies are generated when they want to remove the mother tongue of most Catalans from public space, which I remind you is Spanish. Fortunately, for that it is Citizens, to make normal in institutions what is normal on the street and so that everyone can speak in the language he wants without being pointed out by the separatists. We will continue to use all three languages in this Parliament, because that is what citizens do on the street. Or do you also consider that you see too much Spanish in this chamber, Counselor? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.7.0	To answer the word again you have the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.8.0	Well, this chamber that you say, which is the Parliament of Catalonia, made a law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media, made for the Parliament of Catalonia, which explicitly says: "The public audiovisual communication service of the Generality – that is – " consists of spreading and promoting Catalan language and providing quality entertainment. And he goes on to say: « The institutional language for providing the public audiovisual communication service– the public audiovisual communication service–, « of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, is the Catalan language. That's it; this is voted for this chamber, and it's the law of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. That's just what I wanted to remember at the time, when I said these words that you put yourself in your mouth. And I do find that in this room there's a lot of chatter in the castle, too, and so much! Of course I do. [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] , because Catalonia's own language is Catalan and it's orange and Catalan sign language; that's it. [[Widow's remorse.]] The language of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.9.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.10.0	...is the català. And it's a concept, the own language, which is what appears in the Autonomous State of Catalonia, which has also been voted for by this chamber. And this concept is a concept of sociolinguistics, not linguistics. And it indicates that the language itself is those languages that have developed in a territory. And in the territories of Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands the language that has developed and that is the language of its own is the Catalan. That's it. A German language of the castle, of the Portuguese, of the novel..., of all these languages, which are the Romanesque languages, as you know very well, which are girls of the Latin. And this is what the Government of the Government of Catalonia defends: it protects the use of Catalan language...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.11.0	Counselor, time is up; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.12.0	That's why... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.13.0	The next question is about the exercise of the powers of the Department of Justice during the Covid-19 pandemic. [[Ask the Government about the exercise of the powers of the Department of Justice during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00365/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.14.0	Yes; thank you, President. I will do it in Spanish, with the permission of Mrs Vilallonga [[applause]] , if you don't mind, which is the majority language, the majority mother tongue of Catalonia. Look, Mrs. Capella, I'm asking you today about your powers as a Justice Advisor, because, seeing how you act, honestly, it makes me doubt. And I'm going to give you several examples. Look, in the midst of the pandemic, prison officials have had to work shifts of up to fifteen and twenty-four hours, without protective material. And what did you do, as a counselor? Give them fifty-thousand expired masks – expired, Mrs. Capella –, unprotecting officials and interns. Another example. After months of closed trials due to the state of alarm, with the cluster and the judicial collapse that this implies, the Gavá court has had to suspend the activity. For the Covid-19, Mrs. Capella? No, for his desirousness. We have been denouncing deficiencies in the refrigeration system for several summers now. It is not the first time that they have to suspend the activity judged as that of Gava or Sabadell, it is not the first time that we warn them that officials and citizens are exposed. And yet, the system still doesn't work. More examples than I give you. Look, Catalonia concentrates 60_percent of judicial vacancies. Do you know why? Because the separatist radicals are dedicated to threatening, pointing out and harassing judges and their families. And because you, Mrs. Capella, who should be the highest guarantor of justice in Catalonia, are defaming her, questioning the work of the judges and questioning the rule of law and judicial sentences. Because you, Mrs. Capella, are more to the propaganda than to the responsibilities of your office. Because to protect the officials or to relieve the judicial collapse you have no hurry, but, however, to get your colleagues out of jail you are more hasty than anyone else. And she doesn't even get colored when the prosecution paints her face and tells them that the Generalitat is doing everything possible not to comply with the trial sentence. Look, nationalism has a problem, and it's called equality. You have been accustomed for decades to receiving prebends and replicate that model of privileges in all areas. And now we have first-rate prisoners and second-rate prisoners; the first-rate, separatists, of course. Do you know what this is called, Mrs. Capella? « Arbitration. And do you know where arbitrariness nests? Where there's no justice. So, Mrs. Capella, you're not worthy of the position you hold. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.15.0	To answer the question you have the word justicia's counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.16.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen..., honourable Member, Mrs Lorena Roldán, well, well, I don't quite know the poti-poti that you did; I will try to straighten out what you were trying to say. No more right or less right than anyone else: everyone the same. You came to say that we have not done or exercised our skills as a calibre. Miri, I'm telling you that we have exercised our powers in full and we will continue to exercise them in full. You have barred, in this poti-poti, criticism of the treatment juntas of prison centers; yes, you have. It's a technical decision, all the decisions of the treatment juntas are technical decisions. The treatment juntas in relation to the press and political prisoners, unanimously, have proposed a third degree. Certainly, a third degree that's coming to law. You, these crits and this sound that you do in relation to the exercise of the competences of the Department of Justice..., I did not hear it said anything because unusually, in a barred way, the Supreme Court Communication Service issued a whatsapp in which it threatened the treatment joints – in which it threatened the treatment joints. This is seen in Manresa's Court, an instruction court, to find out what happened. I haven't heard them say anything to you in defense of the public officials of this country. You didn't do it, you didn't say anything. You're the only one who says that they don't like what's done, what's done legally, what's foreseen in the law. Look, I'll tell you something else. [[Funnel veils]] ... – yes, yes, yes – the law foresees that no one should remain in one degree, for example in the second degree, if it is likely to be considered a person entering the third degree. And that's what the treatment boards do every week, when they review each of the consignors of each intern, of every person deprived of the liberty of Catalonia. And, look, I'll tell you how many times I'll convince you, we'll see if that's how you understand it: no personal conviction of this councillor, no of the vice president, no of the president of the generality, no of the councillor, no of the public officials will change a feeling that I've described as unfair. Miri, I... if they ask me what I think, they don't have to be in jail, they haven't committed any crimes that they feel. And, therefore, they should be, arrested and politically held, in freedom. That's what I've always defended and I'll always defend. And it absolutely doesn't justify that you make this speech pointing out the public functions of Catalonia, which are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.17.0	Counselor, your time is up; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.18.0	...who are completely independent and must act freely of criteria. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.19.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the infrastructure model in the context of reconstruction]] [[310-00357/12]] The next question is about the infrastructure model in the context of reconstruction. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.20.0	Yes, good morning, counselor. We are in the midst of a health crisis; also, obviously, economics, and we are also in full debate on reconstruction: as this reconstruction must be, what priorities we have, as we say the assumptions, we have to sort out the expenditure well and, in short, also, in a climate-emergency context, we want to know who is the model of infrastructure that the Torra-Aragonese Government has to deal with reconstruction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.22.0	Thank you, President. President, Counsellor, Counsellor, MPs and MPs, in economic reconstruction, economic recovery and social protection, the government's infrastructure model, if we talk about infrastructure, is what can provide the country with a sustainable and secure mobility model. A sustainable and secure mobility model means, basically, more and better public transport; it also means restrictions on private vehicles in city centres; it means moving forward with – as a result of what I have just said – the environment of the waves, and it also means moving forward with a model that integrates active mobility, that is, the one that develops by personal means, in this concept of mobility as it serves, from origin to destination. This is the infrastructure model: sustainable and secure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.24.0	Counselor, do you know what's going on? It's that the words take away the wind. And it is true that this speech that you make about public transport and sustainable mobility..., we believe that it is not consistent, for example, with the bet that you are making to continue perlonging the C-32 enters, in this case, between Blanes and Lloret. Look, we think that this proves that they have an ancient model, it's a gray, obsolete project, that doesn't take into account the climate-emergency context. I ask him: is the expansion of the C-32 consistent, in this case, with the climate statement you made? We understand that no, and that what they're doing is smoke, basically. And above all, we want to know who will pay for it, too. Is this a new gift, in this case, to Abertis and the dealership, which ends theoretically in 2021? Is it time to continue spending more resources, in this case, on motorways and motorways in Catalonia? Or is it time to bet on public transportation? It is a new gift, in this case, to the private sector, as the platform 'Aturem la C-32' denounces? Miri, I think his model, he said before, is ancient, gray, obsolete, and he doesn't take into account the green light that we are above Europe and that we are leading cities and that we are not leading their government. We believe..., and we make a very concrete proposal: it is the moment of a moratorium in Catalonia for nine motorways and nine motorways; it is the time, in this case, to bet and allocate all resources, which we know are limited, to public transport, and above all to sustainable mobility. Miri, in this legislature, it will surely be the last debate that we will have between our group and its on the model of infrastructure and climate emergence. We disagreed – you know – about the country model; many times, right? We've been able to disagree, we've done it with respect, and sometimes we've come to terms. But we have come to the conclusion that if we want a model change in Catalonia, it is the best for Catalonia that you are opposed and we are in the government, and that it will surely be the only way that the C-32 does not end up building, that it is a model of which you have made a flag.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.25.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.26.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that we do disagree on this issue of the C-32 and on many others. With regard to sustainable and secure mobility and the first of the concepts of this more sustainable secure mobility – and I was talking about more and better public transport – I would like to remind you that we are driving, for example, public transport by road, buses-VAO to C-31, C-245 or B-23, or models or public transport expansion projects by rail. We're talking about line 9, line 8, tram connection, etc., right? But you understand that it feels comfortable to focus on a project, grab it, sign it and reproduce, replicate the tweets of the plataforms. That I... listen, so it is quite legitimate that there are people who are against the C-32, but I respect this project of the C-32, I want to say that I answer to a problem recognized for everyone, for all the gatherings; that, despite the reduction of the mobility for the pandemic and that we actually have systems of sustainable and secure mobility, we hope that tourism will return to Costa Brava and that economic activity will be recovered, for the sake of families and businesses, and we will need infrastructure. We have completed the study document, with aspects that were indicated to the interlocutor who suspended the project; an analysis of corridors has been carried out to certify the suitability of the corridor as the best option from an environmental perspective as well. It is the one that solves the congestion problems that exist, the one that reduces the emissions of NOx and soroll particles more, above to reduce by 40_per_cent the traffic that circulates through the urban nuclei of Blanes and Lloret. The chosen solution duplicates, at the length of the useful life of the infrastructure, 180,000_tons of CO2 equivalent; therefore, environmental solution. And lastly, performance is independent of the duration of the concession....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.27.0	Counselor, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.28.0	...that ended August 31, 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.29.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about territorial cohesion policies]] [[310-00358/12]] The next question is about territorial cohesion policies. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.30.0	Good morning, President Torra, President Torrent. Counselor Calvet, these days of pandemic serve us to rethink the model of country we want and which policies to activate and which are driving, which are no longer words, but are facts. In fact, Professor Bassols, one of the great masters of urbanism in Catalonia, explained to us in his book Genesis and evolution of urban law as urbanism was born, and in these days of confinement he remembered it: the urbanism ordinances were born with the industrial revolution, with the aim of guaranteeing and protecting the health of the cities. And this week the geographer and urban planner Oriol Nel·lo said that the current crisis does not challenge as much city as the area of life, but the way the urbanization process is unfolding. And sociologist Subirats, in the same interview, claimed that the fight against climate change will become a winning theme. In fact, this eruption of the Covid is causing us to reflect on the uses of the city, its comfort, urban planning, and also its relationship with the environment. We are defending a cohesive country, a sustainable country, a country that wants to protect the environment. It is no longer possible to dissociate urbanism from the environment and sustainability. The present and future of urbanism must be at the service of the Green Agenda, a very important green agenda for its department, that of Territories and Sustainability, and it must also serve as one of the basic pillars for post-Covid economic recovery in all areas, both to infrastructure as well as in our country's urbanism. In this sense, we want to ask him for a policy that is no longer meant, but that is done, that is the policy of reviewing obsolete urban models, that do not comply with sustainability standards, through the figure of urban management plans of unsustainable soils. Therefore, Councillor Calvet, from Juntes per Catalunya we want to ask him what affect these master plans, and in concrete terms those that affect the gironine comarques, who condition nine will establish these plans us and these new strategic sectors of activity, so as to boost the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.31.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.32.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillor, Members, Members..., honourable Member, all the policies of this Government, you said, are aligned with the Green Agenda; all those linked to urbanism and territorial cohesion also, huh? : the SDGs and the Green Agenda as a full route of what the department does and, therefore, what the government does. The objectives of the Green Agenda are – sometimes we sum it up – to decarbonize mobility, energy transition, the circular economy, and also digitalisation. This will also be part of what will be called the plan for economic recovery and social protection. The department is leading the Green Agenda work group, to incorporate all these concepts into this economic revival. And, from the hand of the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, which is the urban expression of the Green Agenda, they understand the Urban Agenda as a territory that links the network of cities and towns and open spaces with a way of doing things, huh? , to develop urban planning precisely, so we are developing various instruments. And, effectively, you were looking at the Urban Master Plan of Non-Sustainable Lands. This is a very influential figure in this territorial planning and this green agenda-oriented urbanism. They are solutions based on nature; this is also a concept incorporated from, therefore, the concepts that are developed at the planetary level. And these nature-based solutions go through a variety of themes, but this urban director of unsustainable soils is not a fundamental figure, and especially that of the Costa Brava. With this board of directors, what we're trying to do is to review the urban forecasts that have obsolete models – you're referring to it – that's to say, that they don't fit this agenda, these sustainable development goals, right? And the Pla director of non-sustainable soils, which is an urban concept, so, advanced, is not an urban qualification – you know perfectly well – but a concept, the first one you seek is that we can adapt to the climate change; therefore, very important, the reduction of emissions in all developments. Secondly, it prioritizes the reduction of the consumption of soil, precisely as the element of emission reduction, and also the compactness of urban textures, extinguishing or modifying areas of growth, these only not sustainable to what it refers. But you were also thinking about strategic actions in economic activity alone. And also, obviously, in the gyro area, for example, we are locating our sectors of economic activity, concretely, for example, the Pla urbanistic director of Riudellots de la Selva, between Riudellots and Aiguaviva, or the Logis Empordà, in which we will effectively incorporate all these concepts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.33.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.34.0	...of the Green Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.35.0	...thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about foreign investments]] [[310-00359/12]] The next question is about foreign investment. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.36.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President Torra, counselor, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. In the past few years, Constable Chacón, we have seen how foreign investment capture has been a great source of opportunity and growth for the country's economy and, at the same time, for the same business fabric; for this reason it has been a priority of this Government. At times, too, this foreign investment has often been targeted and questioned, whether there has been a bit of a bid or a bit of a fall, also with the excuse of the political situation in Catalonia. The truth, however, is that the foreign investment volume has gone up. You explained this: in the last five years, from 15 to 19, there was a 35_per_cent more foreign investment in Catalonia than in the previous five years– always looked at in periods as at least four or five years, as always explained – around 23,650_million euros. A good part of this investment has been allocated to the industry sector, huh? , just one of the sectors we have said many times that it is key, because it is resilient, generates jobs with talent and well-remunerated, and more in the technological sectors, and more they have good expectations of the future. She also recalled several times how the Financial Times distinguished Catalonia as the best region in southern Europe to invest several consecutive times. And she's also been awarded and recognized the reverse capture strategy by this government. At present, with an economy affected and affected by the impact of the pandemic, the task of internationalising the Catalan economy, diversifying it and settling it in cutting-edge and technological sectors is still more important, and, therefore, it is more important than ever that this investment-gathering task should take place in Catalonia. The level and volume of foreign uptake also determines how a country's product fabric is, and it is especially important to have an internationalized economy, to have a research, university-enterprise transfer network and, as we have said before, to capture talent and jobs, therefore, of high quality. That is why, she would like to ask us, what is the balance of the year 2019 of the foreign investment managed by the Government of Catalonia; what are the most important foreign investment projects have been managed by the Government and how many volumes and places of work have been created; if I can also share what is the main type of these projects, in what areas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.37.0	Congressman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.38.0	...the reversal has been concentrated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.39.0	Thank you. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.40.0	President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Members, Members, Members, Members of Parliament, despite the fact that some people are interested in establishing the mental framework that Catalonia is not attractive for foreign investment, despite the complexity of the moment at the geostrategic and geoeconomic level, so the balance that we make for this year 2019 is positive. It is positive with a total attraction of 365_million euros of foreign investment capture– this means 1_million euros per day captured–, with an increase of 13_per_cent respect the previous year, the generation of 5,757 jobs– a 5_per_cent more than we did last year–, the maintenance of 1,349 jobs and eighty-four projects. Therefore, the year 2019, through the Catalonia Trade & Investment, d'Acció, of the department, was captured 1_million euros a day and generated fifteen job places a day, 80_percent of which are in the industry sector. Where are these investments coming from? So they come from partners; mainly they are United States, Germany and France, the main ones, but we have up to twenty-seven countries that have aspired to invest in Catalonia. By sector: the new technologies – for us, very important – and also the pharmaceutical industry. It's also important that 47 per cent of these projects are greenfield, which we call..., so those companies that first decide to settle in Catalonia. And a 22_percent of all this investment has been captured through the forty offices that Action has distributed around the world. We are clear that part of Catalonia's social and economic welfare is due to this foreign investment, and that is why, aware of the actions we have in Catalonia, we will continue to work to push it forward. And in this sense, you have commented, you recognize yourself as the better region to invest in southern Europe, as the better strategy; but it is that we have two very important recognitions too: we are now better strategy, the better agency for attracting foreign investment technology, for the first time, to more European recognitions. Therefore, this family of more than 8,600 foreign affiliates that we have in Catalonia continue to grow, and in this sense we will continue to work so that this is for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.41.0	Thank you, Counselor [[Question to the Government about the health management of the Covid-19 sprouts]] [[310-00360/12]] The next question is about the health care management of the Covid-19 sprouts. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.42.0	Thank you, President. What data changed dramatically in sixteen hours to move from ruling out Segrià's confinement to applying a few hours later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.43.0	To answer the question you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.44.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, so don't change data dramatically. Simply, you see the evolution and you also confirm these growth taxes that make us make decisions at the right time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.45.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.46.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Vergés, every time you have had to face a minimally complex management problem, the truth is that you have shown an unprecedented and surprising level of incompetence. It began when, just one day before the 15 March confinement, he still invited Catalan families to go to children's parks with their children. He continued with the controversial Ferrovial, a turbulent matter that has provoked indignation even in his governing partners and that we do not know how it will end, but what we do know is that it will cost Catalans a dollar. But the drop that has filled the glass, without any doubt, is its management in the new segrià confinement. On Friday 3 in the morning you said, "We don't care about rebounds, that same Friday 3 in the afternoon you said, "We do care about rebounds, so on Saturday 4, at ten o'clock in the morning, decide on confinement. To conceal such chaos, it does not occur to you anything other than publicly acknowledging that you had deliberately hidden information for sixteen hours from Catalans so as not to generate alarm, five minutes after saying that transparency would always preside over their management. It's just that it's absolutely amazing. Has no one explained to you, Mrs Vergés, that information is not hidden from the democratic societies of the twenty-first century under any pretext? Have you not realized that with that surprising confession you implicitly recognized being unable to manage and report at the same time, as well as demonstrating a frankly questionable concept of democracy? The reasons for demanding his resignation are so many and so quiet that it has cost me God and helps to summarize them in just two_minutes. But from the respect of your person it is my obligation to tell you: resign, Mrs Vergés. Such a level of incompetence in a modern democracy can only mean assuming responsibilities and another person assuming his or her government duties, faced with the most difficult challenges we have to face. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.47.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.48.0	Miri, Member of Parliament, with all due respect for his parliamentary subgroup of four Members in a Parliament in Catalonia of 135, we manage complexity and also manage a global pandemic, with the uncertainty that this entails. Despite the uncertainty that may have existed, this government has always tried to anticipate all decisions. April 11th – April 11th –, in the midst of the first wave pandemic, April 11th, we already have the first meeting with Public Health, with Agriculture, with the delegate of the Government of Lleida, with the territorial manager of Health and with Food Security also, dependent on Public Health, to establish, right? Everything that would come, therefore, with this growth of important population that would be in Lleida's comarques, which is there a few weeks ago. April 12th is the beginning of the protocol. On the 16th of April we have the first eraser, we are active close to cases at the first place in the country, Lleida, in the old helmet, in order to be able to anticipate us; without a positive, we are active close to cases. This is obviously the management of the outbreaks of agri-food enterprises, which allow us to control, together with the occupational risk services of the enterprises, by making Elisa texts, by making the PCRs, in order to be able to control the different outbreaks in different enterprises that we have had. And we're adding more, too, so, right now, we're going to dig deeper into all the cracks that we're going to have on fruit businesses and all the follow-up we've been doing for weeks – weeks ago. Therefore, we follow the evolution day by day, we make decisions when it touches – when it touches, neither before nor after – we explain them, obviously, to the citizenry with the certain of the decisions taken and the decisions worked, with all the variables contemplated; we cannot do it in any other way. And the information to the citizenry we have always, absolutely always. And we also try, therefore, to give the information of quality; not of holders, but of quality. In this line of work, worry about us from the beginning – from the beginning – and we are managing this complexity, which I hope is also in other places where your government also has the same diligence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the management of the Covid-19]] [[310-00361/12]] The next question is about the management of the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.50.0	Good morning, President. She will advise, with all due respect, her management in front of the Health Department should lead her to reflect very seriously if she is the best person and if she is able to captivate this department and the reps we have in front of her. We make efforts to avoid categorizing his mismanagement without any strides. Miri, just at the beginning of the dam you said that now was the time of individual responsibility: distance, hands, mask. And he forgot who his responsibilities are: to prevent, detect, test, follow, wing and pose in quarantine. Hand hygiene does not have to be used because you give hands delegating their responsibility to individual people. Prevention is everyone's business, but above all it's theirs. Let's talk about Catalonia; today concretely of the region of Segria, tomorrow I don't know if of Barcelona or of Alcanar. More than two weeks ago the Governor of Aragó confined the area bordering the Segrià; you, in change, the Dious, to the spokesman of Salut, told us that it was not Lleida's concern, that they had it controlled, that nothing to confine. Did you lie to the parliamentary spokesman? Late in the day I said I didn't need any advice from anyone, because here we know what I was supposed to do. At the late same time as the divendres, in a press wheel, assures the citizen that he does not have to confine. It was a week ago that the data indicated an exponential growth, that the Arnau de Vilanova warned, that the mayors asked him to help; but until disbanded the confinement is not decreed. And he does it against his criteria and that of the vice president? And does it happen when a lot of people are out of town this week? Counselor, when we already have community transmission, when it has already become clear that you are unable to track infection and contact, can you tell us, as you said in the last Ple, that you are satisfied with your management?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.51.0	To answer the question you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.52.0	Well, Congresswoman... so I also have to say, I take on all the responsibilities I have, I don't get away from them. And another thing is to explain to people with total transparency at what point in the pandemic we are and that the collaboration of the whole society – of the whole society – to do it. And that means that in these basic measures we have to insist, I can't say in any other way, but that we, obviously, have increased the diagnostic capacity of the whole country to deal with everything that will come to us. Right now we're not doing all the diagnostic capability tests we'd have, because we're not doing it because of the epidemic, but we're prepared to do them: PCRs, Elisas to the companies we've done, cracks and, obviously, actively looking for cases when you've done anything. In Lleida we have a brutal complexity, and a complexity that went much further than the health system and that we had to follow and that we work collaboratively, obviously, and we ask for the collaboration of all the institutions, above all of the joints: to open spaces, spaces for the right winging and the right quarantine of contacts. And that's not easy in a complicated social context. And you know that. Therefore, you do not pretend that the tracking system does not work, because the cases are found; you also know, and you know perfectly well, where the contacts are identified. And I told him I explained to the deputies: we are in a very different situation from the Conca d'Odena. At that time we did not know what we could find; now we do know that it is very complex, we have been managing it for a long time, many weeks, together with Agriculture, together with Work, Social Affairs and Families, and we have to do it together with the assemblies, which must open these spaces in order to make the right accommodation of people and forty when they cannot make them at home, well because they are inadequate, well because they simply do not have a home.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.53.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.54.0	Demagogic, Cap. I can only repeat the same one that the territorial manager of the Lleida area said: "We can't control the tracking, we can't do the tracking, we can't control the contacts. Take the truth and tell it, and assume its responsibilities. Counselor, to act firmly, to the truth in advance, using at most all instruments of public management – is not doing so – with respect to the territory. It's about building trust, and you don't. Only at that time can we ask for and demand individual responsibility. I can't keep acting late, badly and diverting responsibilities. We're not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.55.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.56.0	...in time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.57.0	Thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.58.0	I think we've shown that we're acting, and that he doesn't do us for acting when he plays, and that he doesn't do us for taking measures that are hard for the people, and that he doesn't do us for explaining things as they are; I think that's what we've shown. So... And I didn't take trossets from the sentence. And Lleida's manager, Ramon Sentis, has explained it very well: tracking is there; the impossibility of making correct quarters and correct quarantines with people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.59.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.60.0	...that they need to work..., it's very complex.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.61.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the 2020-2021 school year]] [[310-00362/12]] The next question is about the 2020-2021 school year. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.62.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, the school year that we have just finished has been a particularly hard, complicated, especially for that most vulnerable student. But from this situation we have all been unable to learn lessons, such as the importance of the school for its egalitarian element, the indispensable social function it makes, the value of the presenceality, of the company effect or the need to talk, to communicate, to coordinate with the conjunction of the educational community, always seeking consensus. Counselor, with this experience that he has lived, how does his own school course focus to guarantee precisely, therefore, the right to education with fairness and with the maximum guarantees of security for everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.63.0	To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.64.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, as I have said enough in the committee said you passed, from the document approved for the Procicate last week, of sanitary measures and their application, a course with the maximum normality possible – with the application of these measures – a course with full faceality and a course dedicated especially to educational attention and the consolidation of digital policies to education. A course, as much as possible, which for the first time will tend to respond to an economic crisis, not a presuppositional one, but an expansion of the presupposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.65.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.66.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, counselor, so the next course, as I said, won't be easy, after so many months without school, but it can also represent an opportunity. It could represent an opportunity to address segregation and the increase in early school leaving; to reduce ratios and reverse cutbacks, such as that of the six-hour public school; to strengthen student attendance with specific educational needs, which have suffered especially from this confinement, or to overcome the infra-financing of the system that we have been running since 2010, not to talk about seeking formulas for loyal cooperation with the joints, with resources. But we have doubts as to whether your government will be able to take advantage of these important resources that come from the state – 320 of the 370 that you have announced for the next course – and on the determination to strengthen education as a pillar of equal opportunities and progress for this country. Look, counselor, a few weeks ago we approved a Socialist Group motion on education, and today you're already inconclusive. We had a parliamentary commitment to keep the currency tags and ensure the student's food supply during the summer months. It's been three weeks since the end of the course, and they still don't explain what formula they're going to use, and there's a lot of families hanging around. And we had another commitment to start the six-hour recovery to public centers during the next course. What do we find in course instruction? That even those centers that had kept him could lose her. Counselor, we don't have any plans against segregation that would cost less than we can lose if they're definitely carrying this six hour. Therefore, we ask you that, if you believe in equity, correct, please. And, on the other hand, we have witnessed other statements by members of your government who speculate about the thousands of teachers who added to their own course. Today, can you tell us how many additional professionals per centre can count the directions? Therefore, counselor, we understand that the next course could be an opportunity and a course that would be particularly rewarding of the inequalities that we have seen worsen these later months. We ask you, after losing ten years, not to disapprove of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, has the word Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.68.0	Thank you, President. Member, we agree in the analysis, we agree with great traits in the formulas; we diverge, for example, in the presuppositional contribution of the State to our actions or in the facilitation to the State of the application of the debt, for example, eh? Because all that you have said is very important measures and everything that you have said in addition, more or less, what you have said in the amount of 1,000_million euros, everything that you have proposed, that has nothing to do with what the State brings us, or has so much to do with the impedance of the State of actions that can lead us to debt. But in any case, what you were commenting on, for what you do to the faculty, twelve hours of meetings with the unions at the union table last week, which continues this week, which are about to end and which will allow us to donate full amounts. Tomorrow the territorial services will know the territorial services for territorial services, and tomorrow the centers will start to know. One time the centers began to know, dillons came to make public for what they do to the country's global, the figures of teachers and educational staff of a very different nature, from health care, to pedagogy, to social. For what he does at six o'clock, I have already commented: the centers will be able to maintain it – they will be able to maintain it – and they will keep all the centers, in six o'clock or not, more personal to do specific educational actions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.69.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.70.0	...whether they're at this hour or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.71.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the state of the food bank]] [[310-00363/12]] The next question is about the state of the food bank. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Irene Fornós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.72.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, councillors, very good morning. First of all, from our parliamentary group we want to convey all my support to the comings and comings of the region of Segria. Counsel, food is an internationally recognized right, a right that has been violated for a long time and that affects very directly the most vulnerable communities in our society and prevents many people from securing this right. With the pandemic, this situation has not only worsened, but has caused many more people and families to be affected. Social workers, places of benefit, have seen how their parents have grown, and they have been far longer and more competitive with people who have to go there to find food in order to survive them and their families. The food bank has also suffered a strong demand, which has even exceeded its reserves, and has had to make another call to the solidarity of the whole society. But, at the same time, we have also seen that many of our country's food producers, as well as agri-food companies, have suffered a great deal from the demand for their food caused by the same crisis. In some cases, the breakdown of the distribution chain, caused by the closure of establishments, such as those in the inn, restoration, or even of the schools, has led to the consumption of certain products, such as oil, llet, eggs or meat products. Since the first day of the pandemic, since the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food has worked to guarantee food as one of the essential services adopting a whole series of measures that come from the moon and that with the crisis have been seen effective to guarantee the food of our country; measures not only thinking about consumers, but also in the producers of our country. From Esquerra we want to build a country based on the guarantee of rights and freedoms, social justice, equality and republican values, and where everyone has their rights guaranteed, and the right to food does not have to be an objective. Councillor, who valued in fact, the measure taken by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food on the public purchase of food from the primary sector, valued at 4_million euros, which allows the bank to provide food products from the producers of our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.74.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Before anything else, let's leave a mark on the situation that is going on in the Segria and manifest in a felicitous way, therefore, the maximum coordination, the maximum complicity and, obviously, all the efforts of the Government of the country, as well as the permanent communication – permanent – with all the mayors and mayors of the territory, and send a strong embrace to all the veins and veins of one of the best regions of the country. I'm listening to your question, dexi'mfer a..., dexi'mvisualitzar-ho, huh? It is to say, you must remember, all of you, very graphically, a branch that opened up, at the beginning of the pandemic, a branch of a great divisiveness where he was working, therefore, a lot of light – in this case it was goat's bed –, which, of course, was destined for some formatting so that it would produce no formats. Obviously, when you see this, it is obvious that the need..., or the problem that many small producers could not enter the community distribution chain, that surely, therefore, carried its way to the Horeca channel. That's one. I, two: it was also obvious that the health crisis led us and drove us towards a crisis with economic and social consequences of the first order. Then we tried to imagine from the department this public sale, with these 4_million euros, to marry these two needs, that of the vulnerable people and that of the small producers, and also to give felt to one of the most pioneering laws approved for this Parliament, which was, obviously, that of maltreatment. And that's the situation. Happy, happy to have done, to have devised this program, which ends on September 20. I also take advantage of a call to the producers who have not yet joined; it is as simple as entering the department's web page or... and, obviously, manifesting or proving, therefore, that there have been some losses during this time and making the annual declaration – Dun, huh? I end up, I end up just, so, talking about the future, right? And it's clear and clear that this future is going to go through the valorization of these short chains – there's no other one, is there? – marketing. And that's why one more time, and here in your parliamentary office, I would like to make a cry, a cry because you trust our producers, the other pages, pages, branches and branches, in this case, and that it is consumed by the citizenry on these products, which sense of doubt are the highest quality, the most without and the safest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the implementation of the Government's presupposition for 2020]] [[310-00364/12]] The next question is about the implementation of the Generality's presupposition for 2020. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.76.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. First of all, I want to start by giving all the support and outreach to the students who yesterday made the selection, thousands of young people who had to prepare the UAPs for a confinement, for a pandemic, and under conditions of maximum pressure. Vice-President, we have already said so many times: today's young people are still patenting the social and economic consequences of the last crisis in 2008, because of their detail and austerity policies, austerity policies that have led to the slowdown of young people's future projects and their emancipation. And now we're on the verge of a new crisis. Therefore, we are a generation that will suffer two crises in a very short time. The structural vulnerability of young people has been normalized and they have been sentenced to live in precariousness. We are the most prepared generation of history, but also the first to have a future worse than the previous generations. Now, on top of that, we are concerned that the consequences of the pandemic and confinement still impact more on our vital development. That's why we ask you to face the new crisis putting people's lives in the centre, and that means putting young people's lives in the center to public policies; shielding the present, and also guaranteeing a worthy future. The way must be to continue to reverse the detail, as they already pretend to do the guany assumptions, such as the drop of 30_percent of university fees, a historical claim and the fight engine of student movement since 2012. And we can't forget that many young people have been sued to fight and claim this tax reduction, and from here all my support. In the 2010-2012 social retail market, access to university was disproportionately affected, everyone equally, by the fact that it led to the expulsion of many young people from the university. But getting into college is a right. That is why all these economic, social and cultural walls that do not allow equal access to the university must be ruined. We want transformative policies that advance towards equity and equality. That's why we want to know how to reverse the retail, especially at the university, and so move on to a public university model, so I don't have to wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the words Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.78.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, the first words I want for the people of Segria, although it was not the object of your question. The government is with the people of the Segria. We will allocate all – all – the resources needed to cope with the situation that is going on, both from the health and social point of view and from the economic point of view. All Catalonia must be on the side of the Segria, and the government must be on the way. These days, too, forty-thousand young people in our country are doing the selectivity, and from here we want to do it is to give them all the support, all the scalp. We know that they have had to prepare it on conditions that are not ideal, but we also know that the young people of our country, the young man of our country, is a fighting young man and, therefore, that in the same way that he also fights for collective freedoms and for his individual progress, he will also do so in these tests of selectivity with a high return. I'm not absolutely convinced. Half a year ago, the government announced the 30 percent drop in university taxes. And we are fulfilling our commitments. Last week we approved the university price decree, in which it was confirmed this drop of 30_per_cent. A reduction that has been possible thanks to the approval of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for this 2020, these assumptions that some groups of the chamber believe that it is not worth approving. So in the forty-thousand young people who are making the selectivity and who see how the university starts the year coming assuming a 30_per_cent less of the cost, they and their families, that someone asks them if it's worth it or not to approve the assumptions of the Catalonian Government. Because, moreover, it is a generation that, as the Member said, has suffered various crises; many, overlapping. Because many young people in our country..., the previous crisis had not yet ended; they continued to paint precariousness, not just work..., themselves or their families. Therefore, it is a question of justice and equal opportunity. Also because, when we think about the future of the country, education has to be at the center. And these presuppositions of 2020, which we maintain and which we will expand, and which we will expand in these 3,200_million euros minimum, according to the resources that we will have available in the proper weeks and months, is also centered in the educational field: from the novelty in the zero-three, recovering the Generality's co-responsibility in finance, up to the university scope, lowering by 30_per_cent the taxes of degrees and masters. It is our commitment to the country's future. Because many times we say that young people are the future of the country, but no: they are the present. And that's why we're taking decisions now, to make them cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.79.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the actions of the Government to anticipate the health crisis in Segria]] [[317-00211/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. And the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.80.0	Good morning, President; good morning, all of you. About the health crisis in Segrià, which we have already talked about in the morning, despite the fact that the councilwoman says that the government is trying to anticipate, we have the impression that the government is left to try, because we have not seen much in the past. We have the impression that this health crisis is no surprise, and we ask ourselves what has gone wrong not to prevent this crisis. Also during this control session, the same Health Counsellor spoke about the impossibility of tracking, of a complex situation, of a complicated context, but we call what is happening. We know that almost half of the flats in the Elisis de Lleida camps or many of the workers who are found in other municipalities of Segria in a situation of no-grounds have a valid contract for the fruit campaign. And what does that mean? That today there are companies that are not in compliance with the Agricultural Collection Convention. And we ask ourselves: what has your government done to prevent this situation, what has been done from the Department of Labour, what has been done from the Department of Agriculture for real..., trying to anticipate, no, but actually anticipate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.82.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Miri, I'll challenge him later on based on four points. First, a thank you to all the people who have come to work in Catalonia. It's a right, the job, that everyone has in this country. And, therefore, many thanks for coming to work in Catalonia. Second, I object to the criminalization of the pagesia, I radically object to the intent of criminalizing the pagesia. Third, we call on the State to regularize all times. If the State had acted as it had to, we would not find ourselves in this situation. And fourth, I'll be consistent with what I've always said. In the face of these emergencies, how do we act? As fast as possible and as radically as possible. From three points of view: of health emergency, certainly – and then we enter there – but also of economic and social emergency. So, what do we need now? Maximum protection. Maximum protection for workers, timers. So if they can't go to work and because they can do a contagion like God's hand, they have to make up for time, they have to make up for it because they can safely do this confinement at home. And you're also helping the businessman so they can pull their business forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.83.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.84.0	Look, president, we have the impression that you confine your eyes but do not limit the labor exploitation. The workers who come to Catalonia to work in fruit or in any other sector who deserve to be worthy of work conditions, not the grace of the President of the Generality; because with graces it does not arrive at the end of the month, with graces it does not have a worthy life. And the question is that every time the feeling speaks to you or hears the councilwoman talking about responsibility almost to individual negligence, what they're doing is escaping their responsibility as public administration. And besides, with skills in work, I asked him what the Department of Labour has done to avoid this situation, what the Department of Agriculture has done to avoid this situation, and you answer me with derivatives or with questions that you don't want to see. What have you done to guarantee a decent life and decent work rights for fruit workers? The current situation does not have a disability and a lack of endemic will of all administrations. The situation of the fruit workers and the agricultural industry in Lleida and Segria is a situation that we have been reporting for years and that has not been resolved, or that has not been resolved. And today we find ourselves having to put out a fire from a major health crisis. We believe that we need to create a network of lodges to time with conditions, to facilitate the mastery, the relationship of people who spend long periods working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.85.0	Congresswoman, time is up; thank you. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.86.0	As long as the time had run out, because the good part of his speech began, and in which I went to say to him, « Follow, follow, that. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's go this way, let's go this way. Because I totally agree with the three or four proposals that you... I totally agree. If I can get my speech back, what did I say? Health emergency. So, what are we doing? We are absolutely, twenty-four hours a day, monitoring, knowing what is going on in the hospitals of Lleida and Segria and doing all the work we have to do to track, protect, etc. Today the Process will approve the mandatory use of masks – the mandatory use of masks – regardless of social distance, and will come into force tomorrow. Therefore, masks in Catalonia will be compulsory; not only in Segria: all Catalonia. And I think that's an important measure. What are we gonna do, too? I support the gatherings. We are in daily contact with the gatherings and we have created a Processed to Lleida. Because we do not want to do a centralized management of the pandemic, no, no; we want to do the most decentralized management possible and that, therefore, joints and authorities of the region have all the support and can also take all the decisions. We will share all the necessary PPE material, we will provide daily information to the citizenry, and, above all, we are also thinking of a course of action for later, when we come out, for later: from culture to rethinking the whole issue of Lleida's rolling stock. I, on the subject of timers, it's that you're right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.87.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.88.0	...I'm telling you, all right. That's the theme, that's the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.89.0	President, time is up; thank you. [[Question to the President of the General Council on the working conditions of the agricultural sector in relation to the health crisis in Segria]] [[317-00212/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.90.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. Before anything else, send all the souls to the confined city of Segria, and also wish that who is now infected, so is recovered as soon as possible. That said, President, we have now heard a speech from him, but it is certain that the last few days we have heard some statements from members of his Government where the focus is almost as if the responsibility for the resurgence of the Segria were of the temporary workers from the horti-fruit sector, from the agri-food sector, and there was not the focus there, which is in the companies, and also in the conditions of amplification of the workers, who are in absolutely unworthy conditions. Why, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.91.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.92.0	I am very surprised that you attributed the statements you just said to a member of this government. I mean, if I can make it clear, I'll be able to beat it, because precisely this government isn't up to these lines of which you've exposed. On the contrary, many months ago he worked in a protocol, together with the councils of Treball, the councillor of Salut, the councillor of Agriculture, to predict the whole theme of the season of gathering fruit. And I insist: if I have come to something, today, that previewed that you, therefore, were likely to swallow the subject of Lleida and Segria..., I precisely wanted to make this statement publicly, that it is shared throughout the government, that we deny that it is criminalizing the pages and the times, because this is not the cause of everything that is going on there. And, therefore, this message wanted to make clear from a good beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.93.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.94.0	President, in no case has he referred to the lack of measures on the part of companies in these conditions of unhinderedness in which they have been working. Only from his department, from his government, have only made some recommendations that were not only binding, but he has not obliged companies to modify the protocols. And they don't know how to track cases, who's the network that's following. He knows that we, humbly, have always offered him our support and our collaboration to manage a situation that we consider to be of enormous complexity, but that is why we need to know the truth, and there are fears that we do not understand. Why is Catalonia since May 28 without a director of the Public Health Agency, when we know that it is the highest authority in epidemics and infectious outbreaks? Why did the late sale of the Health Council talk about the mask and the social distance, and at a few hours decree a confinement, even with the surprise of mayors and mayors? Why did you have to be the same owner of Lleida's residences who decided to return to phase 3 before the inaction of his government? Who's tracking the cases, President? Ferroser, the branch of Ferrovial, with the controversy that has arisen and against which they were commenting not only the citizenry in general, for this outsourcing, but also all the health personnel? Why does your government only recommend – and say recommend – to managers of large farms and escorts who complete the recommendations, when they have one tool, such as labour inspections, and when they have another, which are sanctions that can be applied, if necessary? President, it's not normal for you to come here this week, too, week, to oppose the opposition, to centrifugal responsibility and to be so little demanding with your own government. The last few days we've been listening to authoritative views, like Dr. Trilla, saying that we've been short, Mr. Fernando Simon, saying that Lleida's confinement was probably too late, and I want to ask you, President, whether this delay in Lleida's confinement is due...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.96.0	...as we have read in a few diaries, in discrepancies... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.97.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.98.0	Home, that you, that rule Spain, huh? , together with the Socialist Party, and who have seen everything that has passed to the press of decisions and with the delays of the press of decisions, that you insinuate that the Government of Catalonia ( applause) takes a decision with delay, deu-n'hi-do – deu-n'hi-do. Why don't we start looking at decision making, huh? And all these because you said, so also, if you want, I'm going to spend the rest of my time wondering why the central government did it and didn't do it... when the day before that and the day after that said..., etc. The situation is very complex in Lleida and Segria, it is very complex, because we have the arrival of a very important collection of people who have come to work and who have all the right to come to work and who can't criminalize them from anything else – we can't criminalize them from anything else – and we also have a whole page that he wants to pull forward. And I'm on the side of the page; among other things, because I think this country must be a living country, a country where the page is prestige, and therefore I refuse that it is also criminalizing all pages, as if the pages are not doing the right thing. No, no, So there's a large majority, most pages are doing very well. [[applause]] - No, no, no, And I'm on the side of the page. They're very different things, and so we need to know exactly what we're talking about. And I say this: we are acting for health, economic and social emergence, and in the most decentralized way possible and listening to experts. Today it is very important that the doctors and nurses of the Arnau Hospital in Vilanova tell us; they must also tell us how they see the situation. We have to listen to the experts, we'll continue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.99.0	President, time is up; thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the management of the health crisis and the trust of the citizens in the Government]] [[317-00210/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.100.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, I would like to express to him the concern of our group about the outbreak of the pandemic that is affecting Lleida, and more concretely the region of Segria. Today are already sixty-seen people hospitalized. The last seven days have been diagnosed with 2,417 cases in all of Spain. Of these cases, more than half correspond to Catalonia, 1,237. Madrid has been 306. President, things are not right. In the districts of Aragó, bordering Lleida and with social, economic and mobility characteristics similar to those of Segria, measures have been taken fifteen days ago, and therefore we are late. And the fact that others may have been late at other times serves neither excuse nor consolation. I still remember how in the Plea last week you criticized that the state of alarm is decreed" one day for the other – I quote it literally. You see, you've also decided one day for another. He denied it, refused to sell it and ended up disbanding it, when many people had already left for the week and with rumors of strong disagreements in his government over this decision. Do you think, President, that this is the way to give confidence to our fellow citizens in a health crisis as difficult as this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.101.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.102.0	So, look, all the inquiries in this country say that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has managed much better than the Government of Spain has managed this epidemic. And so, sir, we have been able to trust our citizens. And why? For our day-to-day management, to be on the side of people, because we've told them since the first moment that the only one that matters to us is his life and his salvation, and because we've anticipated each other and we've certainly come back to anticipate each other. There might not be this Lleida confinement, huh? There were a lot of people who told us not to use it, a lot of people. And we took it, and we took the decisions that mattered. At this point, it's all open. If you want to take a house arrest, we'll take it; we'll always listen to the eyes of the experts. At these times we don't have any experts who are saying: "No, I'm listening, let's move on to home confinement, because it will be the best solution. But to whom I am listening that there is this position on the table by our experts, I have no doubt that I will take it. At every moment we will take the decisions that the experts will ask us at every moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.103.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.104.0	Miri, president, data from La Vanguardia. « How do you value the management of the Autonomous Government? In the case of Galicia, good or very good, 41,5_per_cent; in the case of Euskadi, 55,4_per_cent; in the case of Catalonia, 12,8_per_cent. Dades. We don't trust your government. And we don't trust him, especially because he's trying to take responsibility for others. Listen to me, we're talking about residences. On April 7, his government said that it had no data of two-hundred residents in Catalonia, dues_of_each_God. How do we trust a government that doesn't know what happens to residents? The only way to give confidence is with transparency and efficiency, and you haven't given it. We have doubts about the data, we have doubts about the tracking capabilities of the cases, as said the same manager of the Sanitària Region of Lleida. But you're still saying, "It's Madrid's fault. Is it Madrid's fault if they don't know what's going on with the residences? Is it Madrid's fault that there is no secretary general of Public Health? Is it Madrid's fault that one year after approving the Law of the Public Health Agency there is neither the regulation, nor the statutes, nor the organization chart? Listen to me, if you want there to be trust, give up the excuses, and as soon as possible you can form another government, better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.105.0	Time's up; thank you, Congressman. To answer the paragraph again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.106.0	You asked yourself the question, you just asked yourself this question: "How do we trust a government that doesn't know what happens to residents? So, listen, how do you trust your government in Madrid? Because we have no idea what happened to the Spanish residences, we still don't have the data about what happened to the Spanish residences. It's very strong! - It's very strong! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, that's... no, let me talk, huh? Don't worry about it. May I? Okay. All right. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens said, "It's Madrid's fault.]] Do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.107.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.108.0	Yeah? It's just, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.109.0	You do, you do, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.110.0	Mr. Iceta spoke, and he won't let me talk. Yes, yes, it's an axiom that I buy: it's Madrid's fault, it's obvious. That's why we want to be independent, huh? There's no doubt about it. This is an axiom I buy, no doubt. Now, on this subject, on trust, how can you talk to me about this issue of residences when Spain has still been unable to give data from transfers to Spanish residences? In a transparency exercise that was very difficult to do and accept, we have put all the data on the table, and we still don't know..., and one day it will come out that Spain is twice as dead for Covid, twice as dead because they haven't counted the residences yet. I mean, this data on the issue of residences won't pass it on to me. And about trust, so I see it differently from you. You get this from La Vanguardia, I guess I wasn't going to be very supportive, but, I mean, it's possible for others, so maybe I am, right? And, therefore, I see that my fellow citizens, therefore, give us this confidence, because we have always advanced and because they know that we are at their side.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.111.0	President, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on the definition of proposals for the dialogue table with the Government of the State]] [[317-00214/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. Before we begin, from here all the support, all the soul, all the necessary strength to the people of the Segria. They come back to be difficult days, days like we've been through, days we wouldn't want them to come back, but we need them strong to overcome it, knowing that the situation requires another shot..., as collective protection for everyone. You don't give up, that while we're at your side, we're old enough to keep the infection on track. I turn to the question. These days we have heard various members of the Spanish Government apologize about the second meeting of the negotiating table: "When the Catalan elections are made, when it is agreed... It seems that the annoyances, who make them us or who pretend to buy us time. Again they try to divide independence to win days and not face the political conflict that exists. And we can't give them any excuses. The solution is very simple: as we did the first time, it is up to us to prepare ourselves a lot here to force them there. When we are able to agree on a strategy, we strengthen ourselves and pose problems to the State. Fem-ho, president, we work this strategy, we work the objectives of this second found, we work the concrete proposals and we force the State to move's. Obviously, the pandemic has not made the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State disappear, neither prisoners nor political pressure, nor exiles, nor repression, nor the general cause against independence. The State continues to have democracy and continues to feed the path of repression. And so long as it goes, for now, what Spanish government there is in Madrid, because no one has enough courage to face the conflict from politics and work only to chronicle it, despite the fact that the deep state has begun to rule against some of the same members of the same Spanish government, as we have already warned them. For us there is only one possible solution: to end the general cause against independence, to return the conflict to politics and that Catalans can decide their future. And that's what we're defending: amnesty, reference and self-determination. But we must continue to prepare ourselves for this second found. The government of the PSOE and we can weaken when we have the way well traced and well prepared, and we believe that it is you, President, who must lead it, alongside Vice President Aragones. We set date and force the State to move file. You have the power to do it, and we know you have a firm commitment to this negotiating table. We don't give them the flag of the dial. We must be clear and define the proposals. Do it, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.114.0	All right. Mr. Sabria, we're always talking about the dialy, aren't we? We're going back to independence, aren't we? : the dialog or the negotiation. I prefer to say "negotiation, because talking to talk, dialogue to dialogue, has no sense. Bargaining table, all right, certainly. And that there's a political conflict, certainly. We are exactly the same as in Mariano Rajoy's time. Moreover, some of us have appeared in the sphere of repression, so we too, and, therefore, nothing has been resolved in the sphere of repression or the exercise of the right to self-determination in Catalonia. And that's the point, and that's the point where there's consensus between all independence. In fact, at the first meeting we had with President Sánchez, we already put him on the table: exercising the right to self-determination and amnesty. And these are the object of the negotiation, the conditions under which a reference is to be made to Catalonia; date and conditions for the reference to Catalonia. It is very easy, this second meeting; it is very easy, that Mr. Pedro Sánchez sent us a letter, sent me a letter to tell me: « Listen to me, President Torra, we will have a second meeting from the table of the dial, in which, according to what you have raised to us, the first point of the order of the day is, u, exercise of the right of the Catalonian self-determination, two points, date and conditions. And from here I put the points I want, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. But this is the meeting key – this is the meeting key. To you, after the exercise of these months of epidemic management, does it seem to you that the Spanish government is closer to talking about the right to Catalonia's self-determination or less? Because I've seen that the competitions have been refocused. So, you inspire more or less confidence, now, the government of the state, in order to have an honest–honest– exercise on the right to self-determination? I, look, I don't want to be a passing witness to the residualization of the break-up value of the October 1st; I don't want to be. I refuse to devalue the First of October and the strength of the First of October to break it all. And, therefore, for whatever it is that we are back on the line of demanding the concrete exercise of Catalonia's right of self-determination to the Government of the State, there I am. That Mr. Sanchez is in, and they'll find us there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.115.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the unjust and discriminatory treatment of Catalonia by the Spanish State and the need for more resources for Catalonia]] [[317-00213/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.116.0	Thank you very much, President of Parliament. Many honourable President of the Generalitat, Counsellor, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, Catalonia has an open economy in the world, it is the best region in southern Europe to invest, acll international events of first level, excel in the fields of research, research or innovation and has an enviable tourist attraction. In this sense, Catalonia generates sufficient resources to provide dignified life and sufficient resources to guarantee a future for its citizens. Now, the Spanish State represents a rock on the Sabbath for the prosperity of our country and its people. The unsustainability of the fiscal deficit precedes an endless collection of shortcomings, defaults and unfairness. We didn't meet another exhibit this week. In the last five years, the Spanish Government's investments in Catalonia have been lower than the parties committed to the general assumptions of the State; in fact, much less than the investments destined for Madrid, in absolute value, in relation to GDP and respect for the population of each territory, according to the General Intervention of the State. In this scene of obec and menysteniment, it is up to us to face the current health crisis, economic and social. That is why we call again on all parliamentary groups, especially those who are part of the Spanish Government and those who support it, to help the Government of Catalonia and the President reverse this unjust and discriminatory treatment. We need more resources, more resources to strengthen sanitation, more resources for education, more resources for the residents of the great people, who focus this week's debate; we need more resources, more, more, for all the fabric of production, the autonomies and people who are in a vulnerable situation. We don't claim any more resources for whims. We ask them because we need them and we demand them because they're near us. We must be aware that yesterday Brussels reinvigorated the forecasts and forecasted a fall in GDP of 11_per_cent. We cannot carry the consequences of this crisis to the areas of citizens and businesses. The current situation obliges us all to be diligent and efficient. In this sense, President, we would like to know what his appreciation for respect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.118.0	Well, thank you. If I'm allowed a joke, the Spanish State, more than a rock on the Sabbath, it's a rock on the Sabbath. I mean, really, it's quite trembling. But you know that, don't you? That's why we want to be independent, that's why we want to have the opportunity to make all the decisions about everything that concerns us from a point of view of sovereignty and resources. But, if I may, I'm not so worried about this as something that I'm going to explain to you now. Miri, yesterday, at the last part of the debate and on behalf of the group of the commons, there was a discussion between the councillor of Treball and Afers Socials and the deputy of the commons on the Law of Dependency. The Law of Dependence at these times, and the last exercise, has assumed for the Government of Catalonia to have to deal with more than 1,500_million euros of expenditure. Who was the part of the Spanish State? : 172_millions. Do you know what the history of the Dependency Law is? : EUR 3.418_million. And what I'm worried about is that you say this cipher and they've gone into this little hemicicle that already looks good to them – that already looks good to them! –, that‘listen'm, that don't give you the 3,400_millions? So it's the same. "Wait for what you've got, too. That's what seems absolutely unbelievable to me. You see the Basque Country and tell them to touch a coma of the economic concert. Esconti'm, from the PP to Bildu, is pose in little war. Because the resources don't play. So we are the only country where there have been political parties defending that its citizens have fewer resources to have better schools, better infrastructure, better sanitation... I don't think it passes us to other countries of the world. Then, when you say: « – Listen, what does it look like to them if we claim the historical debt that the Generality has? – No, no, no. We don't care about that. And how do they get rid of it? Because then we approve resolutions, as we approved, that involve thousands and thousands of resources for the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, the demand for more resources for Catalonia..., is that they are not resources that, I don't know, that the Government of Catalonia or that the President of the Generality has put to its butxaca, not: they are resources to distribute to all citizens, to be able to deal precisely with these resolutions that, legitimately, the Parliament of Catalonia approves. But how can we bring these resolutions forward if we do not have them, if we do not have these 30,000_million euros that we have quantified the government that needs Catalonia? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.119.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment of the resolutions adopted by Parliament in the debate on the reconstruction of Catalonia]] [[317-00209/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.120.0	Mr Torra, we celebrated the reconstruction plenary last week, and I believe that, as you yourself said, at this very moment we approved a lot of very good things, among all, without looking at the political color of those who proposed them, and that was, I believe, an example. But now you, in your monologue with Mr Batet, seem to be preparing because you have no money to fulfill what you have committed to here and which Parliament has ordered you to do. And then I don't know if you're willing to let that spirit of the reconstruction plenary go ahead and fulfill what was agreed upon or you're already putting forward excuses for the little funding that Catalonia has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.121.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.122.0	No, I was answering Mr. Batet, we didn't do a single thing. But that's how I'm gonna answer you, too. No, no, I'm delighted with the resolutions that were approved in this Parliament. Listen to me, I... plus, if anyone fills in the resolutions of this Parliament, I'm in. And I'm sorry that this Parliament's resolutions were approved and that they didn't complement each other, huh? Among other things, the condition of a Member, therefore, of this Parliament..., my – I forgive – (Applause), which this Parliament approved and then disappeared. But well... On the subject of resolutions, listen to me, if that's what we want to do! It is that this country needs to re-establish its presupposition and it needs to bring forward all these policies that have been approved. Just... but say 'we'll get the money out, say 'we'll get the money out with a tax deficit of €16,000_million and the historical debts we're running.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.123.0	To answer again, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.124.0	Mr Torra, a point: do you see that I have asked you in Spanish, as always, and you answer me in Catalan, as always, and there is no problem, as we do in Catalonia? [[Greetings.]] Let's see what your Constable Koiné thinks about the subject. You must think like you, and that's why you put it. Look, I regret yesterday's headline and its continued reference to the fact that "Torna blames the government for the crisis in residences for under-financing in dependence. It is very sad that you continue to use the pandemic disaster in the residences to blame everything on Madrid, and also say that this is an axiom. No, Mr Torra, this is a dogma, an independent dogma. We do not ask you to stop being independent, we ask you to focus your policy from moderation on reconstruction, and to put anti-crisis budgets, and to remove money from the embassies or for propaganda and devote it to hospital equipment, to self-employed people or to families that do not arrive at the end of the month. Repriorize, as you say, the spending of 32,000_million_euros that you have on the budget. And if it is not enough, do not empty the negotiating chair for the financing of a new funding system in the autonomous communities. If that's true what you say you don't have any money, then every euro spent on chiringuitos, bailouts, embassies and lawsuits is doubly scandalous. The lack of funding, I see it as an excuse to also fail to comply with the reconstruction plan. If you think you can't manage an autonomy with 32,000_million, leave it. So we... we don't want to, but if there are elections, we are committed to presenting an alternative government project...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.125.0	Congressman, time's up; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.126.0	...to start the reconstruction of Catalonia from the common sense. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.127.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.128.0	So no, you can't manage Catalonia with this assumption. It will never be possible to manage Catalonia with an autonomous premise, ever. That's why we want to be independent – that's why we want to be independent. That's the first answer. But, look, look, look, now that you're the preferred members of the commons and the PSOE and you have so much influence, right? As Mrs. Roldán also said, so, look, maybe you can help us; since with the PSOE and the common ones we don't get out, maybe you can help us. Because we need a lot more resources. There will not be enough, with the priority that the Government of Catalonia makes, that on the 21st we will approve; no. That's why we have placed on the table, first, the 5,000_million that the government has not yet entered us, not a euro, and has put the finances of the Generality in a delicate, very delicate situation. He knows that I asked President Sánchez and the CEO of the Mede precisely, so 5,000 million more to inject immediate liquidity into Catalonia. Because we can't wait for the year 2021 to have these money that we are demanding from workers and businesses. When will the deficit rule in Catalonia be proven to be at least 1_per_cent? We're at 0– we're at 0! That's 2,500_million, which is another loan that the Generality will have to assume, when we already have these money, but it would be another loan. And I hope that in the end – because it was approved at the Congress of Deputies – so the assemblies of Catalonia can dispose of their surpluses and their Romans. That's 15,000_million euros. We need these 15,000_million euros in order to get all their resolutions through. Miri, therefore, help us; I don't know, press. It's you, now, the preferred partners. So help us with the pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.129.0	Thank you, President. [[Decree of 23/2020 of 9 June on urgent measures in the field of taxation]] [[203-00048/12]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 23/2020, of 9 June, of urgent measures in the matter of taxation. Before the start of the debate, it is clear that, in agreement with the Board of Spokesmen, this debate will be based on points 4, 5 and 6 of the order of the day, relating to the debate on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the following legislative initiatives: on the one hand, the proposal for a moratorium on the application of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia; on the other hand, the proposal for a law to effectively abolish the tax burden on tourism before the Covid-19, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Cities, and on the other hand, the proposal for a moratorium on the increase in tax on stays in tourist establishments, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Cities, and on the other hand, the proposal for a moratorium on the increase in the tax on tourist establishments, presented by the Social Unity Group. Thus, according to Rule 138.2 of the Rules, the three parliamentary groups concerned have called for a single reading. According to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote are to be held thereafter because the Plenary agrees, if any, to proceed with the bill's proposal for a single reading procedure. This debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and the general value of the opportunity text, the principles and criteria that inform the proposal. So let's move on to this joint debate. And in the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History will intervene to expose the reasons for which the Decree Law 23/2020 has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the Vice President of the Government. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.130.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, good morning to everyone. Before I made reference to the control session of the Government, but the first message today from all of us is convinced that it is thinking of the citizens and citizens of the Segria, in power, therefore, to contain the evolution of the coronavirus in that region as soon as possible. And, therefore, I want to point out again that there is no doubt that the government will put and put all the health resources and take all the decisions it takes to stop the pandemic and to recover the daily life as soon as possible. I would also like, in which it is, therefore, this presentation of this decree law, to highlight the exceptional situation in which we still live. We have seen this, therefore, in the situation of the Segria or also in similar situations that are occurring in other territories; in some points of the Spanish State, but also in other countries around us. Therefore, the virus continues to act, that is to maintain the measures, that it may continue to transfer to the population the need to avoid a relaxation, and that, obviously, to continue to put all the necessary resources on the part of the public administrations, and to Catalonia also on the part of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, therefore, in the face of what is, in the first place, containment, and, in the second place, to which are the hospital care and health care to all infected people – to which today they are, we want a rapid recovery. Covid-19_has had an impact and has an impact at the health level, at the social level and inevitably also has an impact at the economic level. And once overtaken this first wave, we hope that it will be the only one, but then, at these times, we can't say it yet, once overtaken this most difficult stage of this health crisis, that we can also focus all our efforts towards economic recovery and, therefore, put it as quickly as possible, all the energy, vitality, dynamism and potential of our society, because economic recovery is necessary for social recovery, in order to prevent the effects of the coronavirus from being translated into a deep crisis and a long crisis that can affect our country even more, ill also of inequality, ill also of precariousness, and of which it is also to recover. Reactivation will require the effort, compromise and cooperation of all, but we also know, and so we are told, all the estimates we have on the table, from the point of view of macroeconomic forecasts, that a rapid outflow of the crisis needs, as a minimum, even though it probably won't be enough, but as a minimum it needs a strong, well-planned public investment, they are well aware that the decisions we take today, at the highest economic cost that they have, are the best guarantee that recovery will be faster on the day of tomorrow and in the next few months. And we will also have the opportunity..., and that is why the Government is working through the Commission for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection, which for its own years will be able to take advantage of, and will need to take the right decisions to redirect, to correctly direct all that is European reactivation, which will be the greatest effort of reversal, transfers and public loans, so we will have in our own five years. And, in this sense, we are preparing the projects, the strategic axes, which we hope will also be shared by the joint of the chamber. We have it, and we have clear priorities, and I have been repeating it in other interventions in this Parliament. For a band, to bet clearly for the economy for life, therefore, for all that economy that is not only public service, but that is also moving around all the industries related to the health sector, to the care sector, to the agri-food sector, to the research sector. Second place, therefore, to guarantee the massive digitization of the country to make possible also industrial relocation through industry 4.0. We have an opportunity, in the world it has been shown and it has been seen that the chains of global production also incorporate global risks and that, therefore, recover industrial production at the expense of consumption, that production is at the expense of consumption, it is important, too. And so, in this sense, so this massive digitization of the Catalan economy, and without having to pay the price to promote climate change. Therefore, also facing the climate transition in the energy field. Catalonia can be an excellent – an excellent –, therefore, a bow mask, in this sense, from southern Europe, at the expense of the society of knowledge. These strategic axes must not neglect sectors that are very important to our economy, such as the tourism sector, 12_percent of GDP. In this sense, the tourism sector, together with other sectors linked to the ocean and entertainment, to the great crowd of people, from trade to restoration, are some of the sectors that when we talk about those letters with which we try to simplify the graphs of the future evolution of the economy, we know that they will probably be the sectors that will be the most in that recovery in the form of a square. Probably, and logically, it is absolutely natural for the natural nature of the activity, that those sectors such as tourism, accommodation, restoration, oci, will have a recovery that will be more progressive and will not be so much in different sectors, as for example in the field of industry or manufacturing sectors engaged in export. And, therefore, it is important, it is basic, that we can take follow-up measures for these sectors and for different administrations. From the local area, for example, when many meetings have decided, therefore, to vary what taxes were, for example, for public use for terraces to promote restoration, until also the Government of the State, which has taken into account the tourism sector for which it does to the enlargement of the ERTO. Important. But we also have much to say to him as the Government of Catalonia, and it is what we present, one of the measures, which must have been with a rule of law, we present it in this decree of law. Because really the context – the context – in the tourism sector, especially in the months in which the alarm state lasted, but also today, also today in a much less intense form, by luck, but during the months of the alarm state with much clarity, so the figures we put on the table indicate an impact without precedent. During the state of alarm the overnight stays in Catalonia suffered a davallada of 99,5_per_cent. So, practically total. If we go to look at the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia and see the monthly series, in May the spending for tourists in Catalonia was zero; it had never passed to history, in clear terms of border closure, of the limitation of international mobility. It could not be otherwise, but it clearly indicates that we have a sector to accompany, a sector that... It is obvious that a country cannot practice monoculture in the sector and that we must bet on innovation sectors, with high added value, but that mature, traditional sectors, which offer quality services and in which innovation can also be made, obviously like the tourism sector, are still very important. The first five months of 2020 the reduction of overnight stays in tourist accommodation was 67,6_per_cent per year. The estimates of the impact on billing range from 25,000 to 28,000_million euros. To make an idea, the assumption of all departments of the Government of Catalonia and of contingency funds and interdepartmental funds is 27,000_million euros. So the fall in invoicing in the tourism sector is equivalent in quantity, only in Catalonia. And the impact on which the gross value is added is between €7.763 and €9.225_million. To translate it into affected work places, it is estimated that the destruction of work places will be between 128,000 and 152,000 work places. Therefore, all the measures that can be taken are of vital importance. They are aware that all economic sectors must continue to contribute from a fiscal point of view to the support of public finances, it is obvious, because the support of public finances means continuing to raise resources and continue to have the capacity to allocate resources in the field of hospitals, in the field of education, in the field of development and economic recovery policies. And, in this sense, the Government of Catalonia has taken action, and I want to remind you, because they have involved an important effort. The Catalan Institute of Finance, for example, has introduced liquidity lines to businesses, not only the EUR 1.080 million of specific liquidity lines but has also extended almost 50 % of the aid for tourism promotion plans. As a government, we have created a specific foundation for self-employed and micro-entrepreneurs in the tourism sector– and here is Constellera Chacón who could explain to us in detail what has been bringing her department to an end with the government's conjunction at the side–. We have postponed the levying of the water and some taxes, as we have here today, on compliance measures, the tax on stays in tourist establishments, which is the tourist tax. Obviously, as the law we are bringing to this House's validation today, so you know that the accompanying bill, the accompanying bill, the tax and financial bill that accompanied the assumptions that we approved last April in this Parliament incorporated an increase in the tax, an increase in the tariff, which was to apply, therefore, from this June, to Catalonia. This was a consistent decision with the model that we had followed in the last years of the evolution of the tourist market, with the need to be able to distribute the renders of the tourism sector, to be able to have resources to make policies of better tourist destinations and, also, to reduce some of the externalities, the unintended effects, that a very intense activity in tourism can cause in certain cities or in certain destinations – it was important. But the pandemic has come, and the pandemic has affected many economic sectors, and especially, as it did before, those linked to the ocean, restoration and tourism. And, therefore, as the Government of Catalonia we have taken the decision, and this is a plasma in this decree, that this increase in the tariff, this increase in the tax that was expected to apply already in this season, until 2021 will not apply. This is the central nucleus, the central nucleus of the decree that we approve. These measures are important, and it is clear that they should be accompanied by measures that should continue over time, and that until we can go to a daily life in which the infection of the coronavirus and the infection of the virus does not cease to be a reality, until we arrive at this point, we will have to take measures of support, of support to many sectors that have not recovered their normal activity. And, therefore, measures like the Post-Covid-19 Tourism Sector Pla of the Government of the State is a step, insufficient, from our point of view, and, therefore, can extend them. We also need to take advantage of the tourism sector in this change that has already begun to take place, which it has already done: the renewal of hotel plants, the improvement of the quality of the campsites, which is, for example, thinking about policies of destination, of conjunction. It is not only important to have a good location or a good establishment or a good restaurant service in the area, but also that public space is important, that it is not massive, that it is of quality, that there is, therefore, the essential services guaranteed. That's why it was important, so do all this change we've been making in the past few years. We also need to promote tourism involved in the environment and with the creation of stable and quality jobs, so that it is deseasonal and that you put, therefore, also for the diversification of the markets emitters of tourism, and therefore not only focused on holiday tourism but also on tourism of events. It's obvious that with the pandemic all this is altered, but we have to persist in this strategy. Therefore, we are absolutely convinced that with the commitment of all and all the Catalan tourism sector will regain its full potential, and this is already beginning, therefore, with an effort to adapt to the needs of the moment. They're already doing it, they're already re-opening establishments, so, they're playing a lot of times too... and they're doing it in a way to pit discovered, from a lot of establishments, but they're doing it because there's a willingness to put this country back down, and we're doing it from a lot of economic and social sectors. And, therefore, I want to thank all the professionals in the sector who are working hard to offer our country as a quality tourist destination. Therefore, the government should accompany them, and an important gesture, a decision that I believe, therefore, will have the important support of this chamber was precisely that this rate increase that is foreseen for this year, in view of the current circumstances, is left until the year you see, I think it is absolutely opportune. Seeing the global impact, therefore, of the impact of the coronavirus on the Generalitat's entrances is a very measured impact, and, therefore, it was a measure that also gives confidence to the sector, that sees that the Government of Catalonia is at its side. This decree also incorporates other measures, such as, for example, the extension of some of the tax measures that had already been approved in the past weeks; many were temporarily linked to what was the end of the state of alarm. Therefore, we needed to adapt the subscription calendar of certain taxes to the end of the state of alarm, so that we did not come all at once, give a little margin, give a little space, because, obviously, liquidity is one of the important factors in many companies, and therefore, contribute to the liquidity, to be able to do it in a planned way, I think it is important. And so, therefore, this decree reads the law with this objective. It is part of the government's global policy. And I'm done with this. We were going to say that the first steps at the expense of supporting all that is involved... all the resources available in the health and social field to deal with the pandemic, and working for the economic and social recovery plan, of the great strategic axes, between the fundamental measures of shock in the field of liquidity. We have been proactively injecting liquidity from the Catalan Institute of Finance; also injecting liquidity directly, in the form of subsidies and aids. He also did so, therefore, freeing himself from the subscription of taxes during the state of alarm, and, therefore, releasing him and leaving him for more then, when the activity was recovered and returning to the box of establishments, families, workers, businesses. And, obviously, also, therefore, with measures like this that we present today in the tax field, to make it easier. That is why, from the government, we ask for support for this decree of the law. Thank you very much, and very good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.131.0	Thank you, Vice President. It's back to the group and sub-groups proposing the purposes of the law. [[Proposition of moratoria law in the application of the tax on stays in tourist establishments]] [[202-00072/12]] And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, as usual to go through the debates that are unfolding two days long, it is in the second intervention in which the themes are also unfolding in a deeper way. And the first intervention is used to fix position, not so much for the technical question of the single reading, on which there is already a substantial agreement, but, in this case, on the decree and the one that will be our position, which, I repeat, we will develop in a more profound way. I agree with the Vice President of the Government, because the description he has made cannot contradict the exceptional situation we are experiencing, which affects this sector in a very special way. The suspension of the hotel and restoration activity, through the Royal Decree 463/2020, which later the Ministry of Health also developed through the Order of March 19, which meant the suspension of all tourist activity and which, in the end, drew a scene absolutely unprecedented in the history of Catalonia and in the history of Spain for the sector, didn't it? And we're talking about a sector that affects 12_per_cent..., which means 12_per_cent of GDP in Catalonia, with more than 600,000 housing spaces. More than 40 million visitors, only in Catalonia. So, I think it doesn't fit... to say more about the relevancy the sector has for Catalonia. And of course, I said that I agree with the approach, the diagnosis he makes about the vice president's situation, but I can't agree with the therapy, to consider it absolutely insufficient. In the face of such a situation, the establishment of a moratorium that only affects the period of inactivity is not an explicit support for the sector. Like most, we could say that, with your decision, what they do is limit an abuse that would have been scandalous in time of zero billing, which are different things. We are not talking about an explicit support; it is simply limiting an abuse that would have been absolutely scandalous. From here our alternative proposal, which is not to blow up pigeons, is a very concrete, two-point thing, which is the exemption from the payment during the 20th year, but also in 2021 and the renewal of the trip to the so-called Barcelona tourist apartments tax, also until the 2022 year. And it's that, besides, for the government, it doesn't mean any transfers in its recaptancy planning a measure like that. And I would say that neither for the sector would it mean their immediate salvation, because of the amount of money we're talking about, but it would have a symbolic burden on a government that is actually at their side, that's procluum, that gives them support. Which, I insist, with its measure, which is left in the middle of the way, does not serve. It's the most extensive way we'll develop in the divender debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Law proposed to effectively abolish the tax burden on tourism before Covid-19]] [[202-00073/12]] On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Laura Vílchez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.134.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, MPs, MPs. One more summer, we talk about tourism in this plenary. A sector that is a real engine of our economy, but which has historically been naught by the Administration. To this sector, the Generalitat has historically dedicated appearance policies, as I will comment on later, and today, once again, they want to take advantage to tighten the nuts and eliminate any competitive options for our tourism companies. This year, however, they are one of the main sectors severely hit by the crisis of the Covid-19. This year, yes, gentlemen of the Government, councillors; this year the Administration should be at your side. This year the Generalitat should be waiting for a sector that accounts for approximately 12_percent of Catalan GDP and accounts for 14_percent of the occupation. It should be next to, not in front of, an essential sector for the Catalan economy. Let no one escape who, when we talk about tourism, we also talk about all the sectors to which tourism benefits. Not only do we talk about hotels or accommodation, but we talk about cultural activity, commerce, catering, transport, sports activities, nightlife businesses, tour guides and so many others. Not only are we talking about large companies, but we are talking about SMEs and autonomous companies, which survive thanks to the thousands of visitors coming to us from other parts of Spain, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Germany, among many other places. This year, the Government of the Generalitat should seriously consider drawing up a plan, which has not been done in other years, to address seriously the health and economic crisis that many of these businesses and, above all, many jobs can lead to. We're going to put aside the problems that we've already been dragging, of reputation, of image, that we pay for the process and the images displayed to the whole world, of closed airports or barricaded in the streets. Because today, this crisis strikes both holiday tourism and tourism of conferences and conventions or business meetings. And now, more than ever, it is essential to recover the image of our land as an attractive and safe destination for tourism. We will also put aside the null activity of the Taula del Turisme or the Interdepartmental Commission of the Turisme de Catalunya ; bodies that were created in its day as a forum of dialogue with the sector and that are absolutely inactive. And that, some of them, have the shameful date of creation in 2011. We're going to let go, even, of the fact that we've been out of strategic plan for a couple of years. And that, the one that we have in force, until 2022, is already the same fate as the budgets of the Generalitat, approved recently, and that is that it is useless, since it is now out of date, both in the objectives and in the forecasts that were realized in its day. And the Councillor Aragonès spoke, that the State's Post-Covid Plan is insufficient. But what we cannot leave aside, what we are debating today, what my group is denouncing today, is the shame that this Government, in budgets approved in the midst of the pandemic, did not look to punish the sector we are dealing with today, the tourism sector. A government that approved, two days ago, at the end of April, at the worst time of the health crisis, and when the economic disaster that this crisis brought with it was already glimpsed, approved an increase in the tourist rate. When we already had the dramatic data that he was commenting on and that Mr Aragonès has exposed here. And what are they bringing us today? , for today they bring us an insufficient and misleading gesture of rectification. Today the Government of the Generalitat brings here to the Parliament of Catalonia a correction with the simple intention of postponing the punishment for later. Today the Government of the Generalitat intends to include an insufficient correction, in the middle of a decree law that deals with other questionsable issues, abusing, precisely, that tool of the decree law, thus avoiding a serious, rigorous and complete debate for such an important issue, for a sector as essential to our economy, such as tourism. They lack rigour, because even from a tax point of view, a fee, Mr Aragonès, finances a specific public service and its implementation must be accompanied by a study justifying that amount. We have no trace of that report, nor do we know exactly what service is financed by this evil so-called 'tax', what this collection is devoted to. There is no answer to these questions, because you maintain your policy of permanent opacity. And what you call a tax, is actually a tax on the tourist. That's why my group is putting forward a bill to eliminate it. No increases, no postponements: elimination of the tourist rate. This year and next. In order to be able to exit, at least on the market, under the same conditions as, for example, Madrid, Malaga, Valencia or Lisbon. They offer better conditions, both to holiday tourism and to congress tourism. And, in addition, we want to eliminate the now, now that the sector is already giving 2020 for lost, and that lost is the Easter campaign. Now that the occupation is in really worrying values; now that is when they need funding and the flexibility of ERTs. Now, it is not going to be possible to pass this tax on to the tour operators, but it is going to be the companies that will have to assume that. If it was no longer time to raise taxes in Catalonia when budgets were being debated, imagine now. If our proposal to eliminate this tax is not approved, it is because they do not listen to the opposition or the social actors in the sector, who could explain to them just what I am explaining to them today. The Department of Economics does not listen to anyone, so it then brings these decrees that result from an alarming lack of rigor, dedicating itself to decisions made just two days ago. I think, honestly, you don't even listen to your own colleagues, counselor. That is why many of his proposals lack rigour, starting with the budgets he managed to approve. And speaking of lack of rigour, today we can also see that of the PSC, that today what brings us is a rectification of their vote in the budgets, in the form of a bill, so that we stay as we were. Which was already a burden, which is now going to cost a lot to assume, and which we have already tried, without success, to amend then. And we warned you, gentlemen of the Government, we warned you: no big decisions should be made in the middle of a global pandemic, where uncertainty made it virtually impossible to maintain any previously designed scenario. Anyone who works in the tourism sector today will not be able to understand how it can be that, given the situation in which they find themselves, which will cost many the survival of their business, the Generalitat pushes them out of the competition and takes them out of the race. Many of us know the management deficits of the governments of the Generalitat in recent years in the field of tourism, but at least please do not put obstacles, and less, at a time like this. So, no, we're not going to support these five months of grace that the government proposes. We are going to abstain, because in the same decree there are already other issues on which we cannot stand against us, and we are also going to vote that not to leave what was as it was. We're going to fight for those jobs, we're going to fight by blowing some oxygen into all of them. I therefore hope that all the parliamentary groups will support the single reading procedure for our proposal for a law, in order to get our proposal to eliminate this tax approved this Friday. It is time to tie your shoulder, to work to maintain jobs, to provide relief to those families who live on tourism. But they have to be able to reach the speed at which reality goes. And that, gentlemen of the government, must be it now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposition of the law of moratorium of the increase of the tax on stays in tourist establishments (withdrawn)]] [[202-00075/12]] On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mr Rafael Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.136.0	Good morning, Vice President. Councillor, Members and Members, today we are debating four parliamentary initiatives that we could divide into two blocs. For one band, the proposals of the law presented for the People's Party and for the City that what they come to say, with some mati, is that there is a moratorium, that the totality of the tourist tax, of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, until 2022, until the 1st generation of the 22nd – in the case of Ciutadan, still widens three more months– and for another band, the proposal of the law presented for our parliamentary group and also, in the same line, the decree approved for the Government a week after the presentation, on behalf of our group, of the proposal of the law, that the one that is a moratorium of the increase, that is, of what was approved in the Law of fiscal and financial measures, accompanied by the assumption. And that, therefore, continues to apply to what was approved in the assumptions of the year 2017. I'm telling you to clarify a little something we're talking about. The tax on stays in tourist establishments has a series of characteristics, from our point of view, which I would like to comment very briefly. Why do they explain the position of our parliamentary group and why they are presenting this bill? First of all, it is an imposition – and it has already been said – that it pays the tourist and not the operator, not the hotel, nor the youth hostel, nor the house of rural tourism, nor the tourist apartment, etc. Second of all, it's a tax that charges the demand; it doesn't charge the offer. In other words, the tax is paid based on the use that is made of the touristic establishment. If there are no tourists – as is the case of the months that the state of alarm and, therefore, of confinement – obviously there is no entry and the fee is zero. A great difference respects other taxes or other taxes. Just a small example that I think the vice president has also made a little bit of a point: the use by bars and restaurants of jails and falls. Well, in this case, what's engraved is not the volume of business, it's not if they come more or less coke, it's not if they sit more or less customers at the length of the day, it's just that what's engraved is the simple use and the « enjoy the occupation and the use of tables and falls. This is not the case with the tourist tax. And in the third place – and it seems to us also very important – the recap of the deposit serves for various things. Obviously, to fight against negative externalities, but it is basically used to promote tourism. And it's obvious that today we need to do this job, to go to the markets with an appropriate tourism promotion campaign and adapted to the real situation we're seeing and, therefore, giving health and community security to the people who can visit us, it's absolutely essential. And from our point of view, these campaigns have to focus on – and I have said it on some other occasion and I think I'll advise you with whom we've also spoken on some occasion I can share it with – we have to promote tourism in the nearby markets. From our point of view they understand by proximity not only the Catalan and Spanish tourism, but also the tourism especially with its own vehicle and therefore that it has lived four or five hours from the Spanish border. In the second place, one has to focus on certain criteria. Specific promotion to deseasonalize and, therefore, work for the arrival of tourists also in mid-low season. And that, by segmenting certain previously identified collections. We are talking, for example, about professional and semi-professional sports seasons, cultural tourism, certain European senior tourism with important purchasing power. Obviously, the whole topic of congresses and events... This can help us to deal, in part, with the fact that we haven't had any Holy Week or June. The month of July flows, we hope the month of August will improve. And we also hope that September will be the same, if it can be a little higher and better than the year before. Therefore, we agree with the moratorium until the 1st generation of the 2021 increase approved to the Law of tax measures to accompany assumptions. Does this solve the problem of the tourism sector? No, no, Of course not. But it's a gesture. A gesture that goes to say: "Listen, in times of difficulty we do not push..., we do not push the fee or the tax. But we disagree with the elimination, the removal of the tax, for, among others, the reasons I have just explained. Because its suppression, far from benefiting the tourism sector, from our point of view still the most harmful and the most problematic it has and has to face at these times. What is not worth asking the public administrations – all of them, at the same time – more public investment to fight the Covid and, in parallel, to ask for smaller tickets. The non-quadarian ciphers. And, therefore, we, that we are a parliamentary group and a political party that we try to be responsible, that we govern together, that we know the difficulties that exist at these times, it is obvious that what we cannot do is the magic of asking for more reversal and, for another band, also claiming that the administrations have fewer tickets. Why? Because obviously in this situation of economic crisis we will have to do all the necessary expenditure: the ordinary, redefining and reprogramming the premise, but also extraordinary, and probably still we will be short. It therefore relies on certain measures or proposals which apparently seem to be very beneficial, but which are harmful to the sector in practice. For another band, today we are not doing the deep debate respecting fitness, whether or not we need a tax on stays in tourist establishments. This was done years ago and, in any case, it can be reopened, but we are not before this situation. Certainly, to a country like France, which is – if I am not mistaken – one of the first, the first tourist country, many years ago the residence tax exists. So, listen, we'll put a little weight on things. I repeat, we are not in front of a solution for the whole sector, but we are in front, if they want, of a gesture; of a gesture that what you see is: "Listen to me, while this situation lasts, while normality is not resumed, the dam of normalized tourist activity, man, it is not prudent to take a push from the tax. And, therefore, I announce, Mr President, that – although we were going to present the bill's proposal a few days before the approval by the Government of the Decree-Law – we, the President, withdraw our proposal from the law, understand that it is integrated and subsumed in the decree-law to which we will obviously vote in favour, and also to simplify the debate and to avoid debates that from our point of view are unnecessary. And to clarify this, I also announce that we will vote against the procedure for the single reading of the proposals of the People's Party and Ciutadans law, not for procedural reasons, but simply to clarify the debate on these four parliamentary initiatives. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next to fix its position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, Mr. Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.138.0	Yes, thank you, President. Anyway, thank you to the vice president, too. Undoubtedly, the tourism sector in Catalonia, which accounts for 12_percent of GDP, 14_percent of work places, has a fundamental import in Catalonia's economic fabric, eh? And we have to be aware that there are between 90,000 and 150,000 places of work, according to the same councillor, that they are at risk that we can lose them, and, ultimately, also, that the impact that it can have on the resources that arrive in Catalonia, therefore, can be very great. We're practically talking about 20,000_million euros for what it does to foreign tourism and 4,000 euros for what it does to domestic tourism, both from Catalonia and from the rest of the State, right? So, the bill that presents itself, in this case for the same... what's the decree, huh? , which the vice president presents to us and which also brings back the different initials, even though it is obvious that they are planting or starting from two positions I would say substantially different, but we understand – and we will not – that it is a more symbolic measure, right? , which is a good gesture with the sector, which is not a measure that really serves to respond to needs that can be very great on the part of the tourism sector. That is to say, I have the feeling that it is more, between comets, to say it in a way, "a placebo, than a measure that actually has an impact on the tourism sector and that helps to overcome the crisis. With data from the same Department of Economics, I think it has an impact on the recaptancy, the one that comes up today, of 3,5_million euros more or less, so it is a relatively small impact both for what it does to help the sector, but also for the loss of availability of resources by the Generality. What we believe to be with the tourism sector, I would say that they are deeper, more structural measures. I believe that, obviously, if we want to support the tourism sector in Catalonia, I believe that there is a fundamental element with all the complications, with all the nuances, but I believe that both the performance of self-employed people, as in this case also the ERTOs, are a much more powerful measure to support the tourism sector. Obviously, I'm in charge of the state government, and I think it's worth putting it in value. Secondly, take measures that I think can be very distressed or even sometimes contradictory. I believe that measures are being taken, in this case, more courageous than those taken by the Barcelona Assembly. I mean, we have a debate about, for example, the tourist apartments. I think we're at risk in this sense, aren't we? , with the support, for example, of entities such as the PAH, which is to try to rescue tourist apartments so that they are, in this case, social protection habitats, and, obviously, paid for by the Public Administration, and, in any case, for a sector that is also patenting a lot, such as that of tourist apartments, and, in any case, walking so that we return or recover these floors that are now the same tourist apartments, as usual living, isn't it? And the third element that is instrumental in preserving the touristic texture is giving confidence. And I'm also telling them that, honestly... I mean, don't get as emboldened as they are, in this case, with Lleida's rebound, because if you're today, at least, it's another time, isn't it? Minister of Sanitat, Mr. Illa, said that we can go to a new confinement, and I think that if in the end it was really late and bad in the case of Lleida's rebound, so, as some people are saying today or are pointing out today the communication media, it is something that we will pay in the tourism sector and we will pay in the economic sector of the country's conjunct. Also, well, we'll see if this ends up causing a new rebound, not just in the Segria, for acting late and poorly, according to the same government leaks, it seems, because they didn't agree between you, right? – he went out published to VilaWeb, for example, that it seemed that Mr. Torra accused them of not having produced the confinement before because they did not agree between you, and between Councillor Vergés and Mr. Torra –, but in any case they will clarify it if they continue..., if so. Then I think if we're talking about the tourism sector, I think I need a debate on the product model. I don't think I'll be here today, but someday we'll have to. I mean, we're the first ones to call, right? , attend to the needs of the tourism sector, which, as we say, will not be opposed to it, but it is a more symbolic matter and a practical question to say that the Government of the Generality is doing something, but I would drag it all out, or else we are not before the great measure, in this case, to help or solve the crisis in the tourism sector, but I should like to have a debate on the country model. I mean, the country product model... which model do we want to bet on? Do we want to bet more on science, technology, 5G, or the country model is Barcelona World? And we haven't had this debate. And the tourist model has some deficiencies that I think are important. For example, Lloret, which is an eminently tourist city, is the city with the lowest per capita income in all of Catalonia. Therefore, some problems that the tourism sector was facing, which obviously we have to help, we have to protect it, in the face of this crisis, we cannot let anyone stay behind... but I think that we would do well to make sure that, in the context of the reconstruction debate, we have a debate about whether we want to bet more, for example, on industry – which I do not say is simple, it is very easy to say, but very complicated to do – or continue to bet on the tourism model. There are certain projects that we do not share, that the Government of the Generalitat, right? , there is constant energy, that I think we do not consider them priorities, and we probably think that more than betting for Barcelona World, so we should be clear that we have a scientific cluster as represented by the Biomedical Research Park of the Barcelona area, and that we should probably be leaders in research and scientific research, that you certainly have a lot to see with what is going on these days, right? I do want to put a stop to the concrete proposals of the PP and Ciutadans, in order to differentiate them from the proposal that brings us, in this case, the Socialist Party and presented to us by the Government. You... at the end of the day, I've told you more than once, it's pure rock doctrine to every Ple. Or else, you in every House bring us a lower tax rate with an impact on brutal recaptancy. In the previous plenary, the inheritance tax; today, we eliminate the tourist tax for two years. In the end, it's impossible – that's what I've said fifty times – to defend tax cuts, which I think we're already on the way to 1,000_million euros, and then, yes, emergencies, public health, public school... I've told you more than once, I can hardly say them - there, but it's the economic theory of the canyette; that's to say, you come from buking and juggling at once. It's impossible, it's impossible. Or, less recap on high returns and lower environmental taxes for public resources, and therefore they also have to decide where they want to be. At the two places now, mass and replicant, it doesn't work. And then, I also want to tell you, in this sense, part of the tourist tax money, which we have always defended, which must also be used to deal with the externalities that the tourist sector sometimes generates – it generates us, for example, in housing situations and we live in large cities – but it also goes to tourist promotion. I do not know if we are at a time when, for example, we can give up the resources generated by the tourist tax to promote tourism. Home, so let's explain to each other where we'll pay for it, because if we want them to come at these moments in town and citizens of the rest of the state – I also know who I think is also curious that we now consider Spain, right? – however, in any case, we need resources to promote tourism. So let's go back to the same thing: it can't be at Mass and respite, can it? And then I also want to enter the... – and so did the company of the PSC – the tourist tax, if we discuss the model of the tourist tax, is a tax that neither the hoteliers nor the owners of tourist apartments, in this case; or so, it is a tax that the users pay. And listen, and we know that, and we have proof: people kept coming to Catalonia or the big cities like, for example, Barcelona or the capitals like Girona, Tarragona, Lleida or the Catalan Pyrenees, for the tourist tax. Because there are cities all over Europe, the great European cities – and it was about the example of France; they can talk about Amsterdam, they can talk about Rome, they can talk about... – they have equivalent or similar tourist taxes or in most major cases of which Catalonia has, and no one stopped coming to Catalonia for the tourist tax. The other way around. If Catalonia is a pole of attraction, especially for Barcelona, which is a pole of attraction for the tourism of congresses or in any case for the tourism, it has to do with many other considerations that do not have to do with the tourist tax. Therefore, it has never been a deterrent, as it is not now. Listen, people will not come to Catalonia for the tourist tax or for the non tourist tax; people will come to Catalonia for the Covid, if they can come, and if you think they are safe doing tourism in Catalonia. And this is the central element. Then, now, with the Covid's excuse to charge us the tourist tax for two years, to end the recap, that we will already have enough problems with the reduction of the Generality's entrances, to see if it queues, so... Besides, a tax that does not pay in this case the owners. I mean, that's not really... in the background, it doesn't end up helping the tourism sector, because what we're going to do is reduce the capacity we're going to have to recap for tourism promotion. Therefore, I say to them, I ask them – I already know that they will do what they want, but it is not possible to be at Mass and reticent –: stop making doctrine of rock to end with all the taxes on which the Generality has powers, and maybe we decide to see how we can try to manage an economic crisis that, although..., we like it or not, therefore, needs a strong public sector and therefore also more resources on the part of the Generality. Therefore, in any case, we will not oppose it, but we are also aware that it is not a measure to do so, but rather a measure that is more symbolic than anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, she has the word to fix her position on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, the deputy lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.140.0	Deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor, very good morning. We've been able to get a rest from all the projects and also from the decree. We would focus on the decree, because we think that today what you have the opportunity to approve is this decree that the Government makes; one of the many decrees that the Government has made during the health emergency situation. I think that we already have twenty-four decrees, when the normal legislative procedure should be the projects or proposals of the law, because it does not allow us, therefore, to participate in these legislations and, therefore, cause us to read with great depth each of the measures that the Government approves practically daily, which are very many. In this concrete case, the vice president told us to reactivate the economy because the effects of the coronavirus is not converted into a deep crisis. Here may be the difference between your position and ours. You say: "that the effects of the coronavirus are not converted into a deep crisis; we think that patriarchal capitalism as the system was already at the point of a deep crisis and that it is precisely the effects of the coronavirus, the effects of the Covid-19, that accelerate this crisis of the patriarchal capitalist system. The year 2008, with the financial crisis, was precisely seen in the tourism sector, so an industry that was given the green industry, right? , because we didn't have a third smoke for the movies, but no one counted the kick that left the tourist behind. In fact, the number of tourists has almost doubled in two years: from 800_million to more than 1,400_million in 2018. The year 2019 more than 43_million tourists from outside the Spanish State visited Catalonia, Valencia or the Islands, according to the same National Institute of Statistics. It has therefore become clear that, as the so-called green industry developed, tourism is heavily conditioned, as I said..., it was specified in an article published recently to La Directa, so, as I said, "tourism is highly conditioned by the environment both for the impact on the ecosystems of destinations and for the carbon footprint that fuels climate change. The year 2008 a study published to Nature magazine estimated that tourism already accounts for 8_percent of the total winternacle effect gases in the period 2009-2013. You, Mr. Vice President, have spoken about the climate transition in the energy field from a strong, well-planned public investment. So more than talking solely and exclusively about the places of work that tourism generates, which is important for us to talk about, because there is a very large dependence on the tourism sector, we may also talk about how many years it will last or cheat to destroy this planet if we continue to foster a certain tourism model. I repeat again: 8_percent of the total winternacle effect gases. "Another way," said La Directa's article, "if this activity was a country, it would be the third after Xina and the United States in gas emissions, and that without taking into account the spectacular growth in the last seven years, because we are talking about a few dates from 2009 to 2013. Therefore, we understand what the situation is, we understand the dependence of the tourism sector, it is a political decision that has been taken. We do not depend on the tourism sector because yes, but it was decided to bet on the dependence of the tourism sector, on construction and on car, on the planning of the economy. Because the economy is planning, and the capitalist system has aspired to these sectors, especially after the 2008 crisis, as a way to reformulate itself. And, therefore, this planning has brought us, therefore, very concrete consequences. For example, you were talking about sectors such as commerce, inn or restoration, right? "The value added gross, said you. A 17_percent gross added value, is certain, comes from trade; a 10_per_cent, from inn and restoration. Both sectors require skilled labour, which is more exposed to adverse working conditions and low wages. We can relate this very well with the conditions of all those people you spoke about, who depend on a tourist contract. In fact, a lot of young people – a lot of young people – live from these precarious contracts of trade, hospitality and restoration. And that is why, perhaps, in this process of betting for a planned economy, we have to bet that the jobs don't take so much from tourism, car and construction and take more jobs that, precisely, respond to a self-centered economy. You talked about production on the demand of consumption, and we agree. But it may be that he agrees with the company councillor, who constantly talks about exports. Actually, we have an interface economy, don't we? That is to say, an economy that exports, but it has to import more in order to survive, because all its product exports. And, therefore, perhaps in this planning we would have to plan in another way. In fact, the decree that you bring to approval, we see that it speaks of taxes that have been suspended. For example, that of empty habitats, that of non-productive actius of legal persons. Why do you suspend the tax on empty habitats? Why did they suspend the tax on non-productive assets, which are taxes that engrave luxury goods? Squares, luxury ships... I don't understand why they plan this way... recreational and gambling machines. But..., we continue with the decree: « Bonus in the quota of 100_per_cent... – well, it has cost a little to find it, because it is clear: « Bonus in the quota provided for in Article 5 of the decree such as it refers to the bonus of the... –, well, after looking for it, it is: « Bonus in the 100_per_cent for the second quarter of 2020 and in the 10_per_cent of the third quarter of the tax on games of lot, enter or chance. Recreational and gambling machines. Why? Why do you benefit from 100_per_cent of this activity? Perhaps we should be more concerned to condone the logger of those people who live in the tiny public housing park we have and not to make a 100_per_cent bonus in the second quarter at the tax rate on recreational machines. Actually, looking at the decree, we didn't just hear what this planned economy you're talking about is. And we don't understand when you're talking about "curse crisis." You are talking about the "crisis of cures, but this Parliament has not been able to approve a minimum amount for workers working in people's homes of 1,200_euros. They're talking about the work that tourism generates, but they haven't told us about the pee cambers or the kellys; they haven't told us about the riders, the tourist guides, the museum workers or the same sector of restoration and the conditions of precariousness. In fact, there is often only talk of working places which generate, but also of intensive working days, part-time work, low wages, the breakdown of working rights, problems of health caused by work activity and other precarious situations which, moreover, are aggravated in a working force with a majority presence of women, in concrete terms from 60 to 70_percent of racialized people and of migrant origin. And so when we plan the economy, when we talk about an economy of life, when we talk about the crisis of cures, when we talk about the climate transition or these jobs that are lost, we might also have to talk about this: the "kellys, the riders, the restoration sector, the tourist guides and all those that have long been dependent on a precarious job that depends on the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, he has the word on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.142.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Vice-President Aragonès, Counsellor, Members, Deputies, Today, in fact, at this point of the order of the day we come to deal with are four different norms, in this case a decree law, which is the one promoted by the Government, on 23/2020, and three proposals of law, one of them supported or at the initiative of the Socialist Party, the other of the People's Party, on behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party and the other for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The common link between all these three initiatives has to do with Law 5/2020 on tax measures, which in short, among many other aspects, regulated the new tax types of the tax on stays in tourist accommodation, which is colloquially known as the tourist tax, so that it is a tax; and, therefore, I do not understand the lack of rigour attributed to the Government by the representative of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, as the rules which the Government explicitly promotes speak of "tax and do not speak in the case of tax, do they? I insist, even though it is colloquially the name given to it. In this case, there is a lack of rigour, as the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group does, to demand, in this case, a retroactive application of these types, because they promote that this change tends to see with the whole of the year 2020. We understand, therefore, that it is from the 1st generation of 2020 and, therefore, we would like to know to which number all taxes collected from the 1st generation until this legislative change comes into force; that the entrepreneur who has invoiced them is taking over? We haven't just heard where this bill is wrong. Anyway, this is a competitive race that you keep with the People's Party. The People's Party asked: « Esconti, that we types come into force since March 14, is to say, this exemption that comes into force from March 14, 2020 and all year 2021. And you, seeing what the People's Party demanded, said: "No, no, from the 1st generation of 2020; that is to say, let's move forward and also go back to the 1st of April 2022. And fortunately we don't have Vox here, because if we had dyed Vox did he say: "The same as Citizens and two hard-boiled eggs, right? And, therefore, all this is populism, it's still populism, it's the most reactionary business service before anything that's basic and essential. I believe that three spokespersons have advanced it before I, made it the representative of the Socialist Party, made it the representative of the commons. We are talking about a tax that is standardized at global level, that has to do with the specific needs not only of the tourist activity, but many times of the municipalities that acquit this activity. And, therefore, I believe that this service and this chicken-flying policy that you do, because this is chicken-flying policy, is to want to get well with a part of the business, I insist, the most reactionary, the one that does the most, right? – this is a maximum – to privatize the benefits and socialize the losers. So you..., this proposal, these proposals have not been presented if there was a minimum territorial implementation in Catalonia, because it is all well known: the management of this foundation is 50_percent between the Government of Catalonia and the municipalities. And, in this case, important municipalities, as well as mine – Mr. Cid today has twice posed the name of my municipality... –, Lloret de Mar. I'm in Lloret de Mar and we're very grateful, in Lloret de Mar, for recapturing the tourist tax. And you know the counselor, don't you? Because thanks to this recovery there is a plan, which is called the Tourism Promotion Plan and develops a series of programs. In this case, we have in Lloret the taste, since more than three years, of having a plan of tourist renewal to the destination that makes that there is an involvement of different administrations: in this case, of the same Assembly of Lloret de Mar, of which also in form, of the Generality of Catalonia, through the Department of Enterprise, and also, in this case, collaborates the Patronage of Tourism Costa Brava, which depends on the Diputació de Girona. Therefore, these fiscal measures are effective to improve our competitiveness, because they do so not only from the point of view of promotion, but also from the point of view of reconstruction of some destinations, such as Lloret de Mar; a mature tourist destination that, as a result of this mature, has lost competitiveness. And this also translates into the loss of social competitiveness, that many of the people who reside there..., precisely because many times we are talking about mass models that are scarcely produced and that are based more on a price factor than on a quality factor, that end up restructuring in the socio-occupational and socio-health conditions of all people who see them. And this is a battle, not just at the local level, but also from the same government and, in this case, I want to make explicit reference both to the business councillor and also to the vice president, because there has been firm commitment from the principles for this agreement between different administrations, so that it translates into benefits for the territory and is not something we say about steroids, but we give it to the direct experience, right? Empirical knowledge is very important and more important in these cases. I insist, this lack of territorial implementation does not make them aware of the needs that affect many municipalities and many territories and explicitly everything that has to do with tourist management, eh? And the fruit of this is that many municipalities, not only Catalans, but also from all over the Spanish State, have to join us as the Alliance of Tourist Municipalities, which they come to make lobbyists before the Spanish State to improve taxation. In this case, the entrances from the current transfers from the State to all those tourist municipalities which see exponentially increased the presence, in this case, of veins or residents or which are temporary, in their destinations, from this tourist activity. It is here, in these structural policies, that they are not conjunctural, that both the People's Party and its proposal, as well as you, Ciutadans, with this, each time, rise more important before the Spanish Government, they should do more pressure, precisely because all these municipalities can get answers. I insist that I am not talking about Catalan municipalities, I am talking about Adeje, Arona, Benidorm, Calvià, San Bartolomé de Tirajana and Torremolinos and I believe that they are governed by an independent mayor. I understand..., now do not accompany us Mr. Alejandro Fernández, but I suppose you know Mr. Toni Pérez, who is the mayor of Benidorm ; Mr. José Ortiz, who is the mayor of Torremolinos, and ultimately..., who is of the Socialist Party. And all of them, like, in this case, the mayors of Lloret de Mar and the mayors of Salou, who are Catalans, so they are jointly promoting this initiative to improve the financing of the municipalities that see whose main activity is tourism. For us, in the background, it's fundamental – it's fundamental – that it's still vertebrate as it's done, and it's also fundamental the decision that was adopted by virtue of this decree. Because if ethics is paramount in politics, so is aesthetics. And I believe that, in this case, a government has the obligation to take all those measures that, in the measure – and that is worth the redundancy – of the possible, serve to convey messages of trust, in this case, to the enterprise – as has been said, an enterprise that is not the passive subject of the tax, in this case, who is the person who temporarily rents it. And the entrepreneur, in this case, is doing a management of this tax and self-liquidating it before the Government of Catalonia, with a factor that may not have been worth much, but also with a management of this tax that allows him to finance himself, because he is the owner of all these funds while not entering them into the Catalan public record. Therefore, from our point of view, and thanking the position of the Party of Socialists, which I believe with common sense and consistency, as all that they have proposed is that which the Government has ended up having by this decree, therefore, logically what we would do is to give support to Decree 23/2020, to this modification of the entry into force of the new tariffs established for Law 5/2020, to raise them to the first generation of 2021, and logically to position ourselves against and vote against the processing of the two proposals of law, both of the People's Party and of Citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, she has the word to fix her position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.144.0	Very good morning to everyone. Congressman Bruguera at the beginning was trying to focus, wasn't he? What was the debate about today? For me, really, the debate we are having on these four initiatives is about the existence of the tax system itself. Now let's see that, as there is the Covid-19, we get back to the subject, but it's the same debate that we had in 2012, it's the debate that we have on a regular basis, it's a debate that we have in the Barcelona Assembly late, long before we know that the pandemic is coming, and it's the debate that we have today: whether this tax has to exist or not. And I confess, because I have had to participate in one way or another every time in this tax, that every time I have the same perplexity. I have the same perplexity of political parties that are against a tax that, from all the spectrum of taxes that we have in our order, in our fiscal policy, is the most particular. It's the most particular, first, because it practically doesn't pay for Catalan citizenship. The second, because it absolutely does not pay for the Catalan company. The third, because there is empirical evidence that it does not affect your tourist demand. There is this evidence in other demarcations, but then he studied 2017, and the Catalonia Economic Journal published it, which was the impact of the introduction of the tax. But it's that even though they don't want to read Catalonia's Economics Magazine, it's logical to crack it. If you go to Girona and spend more than a hundred euros in a four-star hotel, you won't decide whether or not you're going to pay one euro and twenty cents – it's logical. It is a tax that has so far allowed to collect more than 350_million, which are finalists for the sector. Now Congressman Orobtig reminded us that they serve precisely for a tourist policy of Catalonia, at the expense of Constellera Chacón, to turn our country into one of the best tourist destinations in the Mediterranean. That's the point. And also in particular destinations, such as the city of Barcelona, for externalities. But it is also a tax that exists in Europe, with prices that are much higher, not only in the city of Barcelona, but above all in the Catalan territory. It exists in Balears, it exists in Germany, it exists in Austria, it exists in Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Scotland, Slovakia, Slovenia, France, Greece, the Netherlands, Hungary, Italy, Malta, Poland, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Romania, Switzerland and Ukraine. It exists everywhere, and either all these countries are wrong or the position the People's Party and Citizens have on this tax clearly did not go away. And, certainly – and we haven't talked about it, and the vice-president referred to it – the tourism sector is patenting a rock – is patenting a rock – since March 14th, when it engages in a total paralysis of the activity, with more than 170,000 people going to ERTOS, which is one-quarter of all ERTOS in Catalonia, with an impact on the whole of the activity that goes beyond much of the subsector; if it is land transport, with less impact, if it is covenants and fira, with a brutal impact. An affect that Mrs. Chacón reminded us the other day... only the direct affect she has on the reduction of billing, the value for the whole year in about 15,000_millions. And that is certainly a huge effect, it is an effect on a productive sector of our country that clearly needs to continue working, that needs to continue reforming and that needs to be made more sustainable, but that needs to be addressed. If we want to address it, we see which policies... it's that we don't have to debate it here anymore, but we see which policies are asking for the sector. And the sector that is asking: number u, employment support policies, ERTOs. The ERTOs, it doesn't feel like it's over just when the summer season's over. End of summer, end of September, and the ERTOs, by force major, disappear. Well, I hope that all of these who are preferred partners now with the Spanish government and also the groups that are part of it, so, really..., they can be extended, like at least until the end of the year, if not until Holy Week, because they can actually travel... And especially that it is covered, that today there is still a hard problem with the collection of the ERTOS of the people you have recognized them. Second petition to the sector: direct aid and liquidity aid. That doesn't happen to take them off a tax they're not paying, because they're no longer paying it. Therefore, this happens because there is liquidity, because the European funds arrive, because this reduction in billing is possible and really does not have to close the companies. And obviously these resources have to come from Europe, it's obvious. And Europe has already spoken and has also recommended that 20-25_percent of these resources come to the recovery of the tourism sector. We hope that this is done and we expect the money to arrive and we can save Catalan businesses. The third thing the sector demands – third and most important – is to reactivate tourism demand. And here, to which today you want to remove the tax: it is a key element of this tax, precisely, to work the tourist demand. This is the reason why the tax was created in 2012, for which the tax was needed, to shield finalist resources to make tourist promotion, precisely to shield the sector and protect it from other needs that may hold the assumption of the Generality. And today, these resources are more necessary than ever, these resources that have now decided that they are not of interest to you, for the uncertainties, for the pores, for the restrictions on mobility and for a competition for a tourism that is more escàs, because if normally they are already to be made promotion policies for the activities and for the preservation of these, now it is to be made a greater emphasis in this campaign, and certainly in the following, therefore, to apply protocols, to invest in security measures, to carry out good practices, to train staff, to ensure that Catalonia is a safe destination not only for visitors, also for the Catalan city; to maintain a reputation and to protect this reputation and to ensure that tourism remains an attractive destination; to restore the city. And this happens to ensure that the visitor is spending more money, that synergies are enhanced and that we work on what is the satisfaction of the visit. [[And to all this tourism sector, which has been confined, has not been inactive, and has been working, has made proposals, and, in fact, has done as many trainings as sessions to innovate and to direct those months that will be very complicated. This is where the administration's support is needed and where resources are needed from the tax system.]] [[Therefore, before these needs, which we already have to improve the tourist model of Catalonia, the more survivors for the Covid, it seems to us that it is a mistake to decide that the money that comes from the tourist tax now does not interest us and, therefore, we will not have it.]] [[Therefore, it is clear that we will defend..., vote in favour of the law decree and vote against the initiatives of the People's Party and Socialists.]] [[And I would also like to end by defending an element that, at the time, when entering it through the accompanying law, but that we have not spoken today..., that is the specific refresher for the city of Barcelona, an element that you have also decided that you are not interested in and that we also need to eliminate.]] [[Well, being able to approve this visit to the city of Barcelona, with its own casebook, allows us to overcome a debate that we have had several times in this chamber, which has been debated at the Barcelona Assembly, which seems to us to be sterile, and which is the market on the percentage that must go to the municipalities, on the percentage that must remain in the city of Barcelona. And, therefore, that each school has its own tram, that each school is responsible and is left with the benefits it reports.]] [[What does that allow us to do? It allows us to precisely shield the policy of the Department of Enterprise, tourism, to deseasonalize, to have a territorial balance in which it is the activity, in which it is the expense and in which it is the diversity of proposals, and to guarantee and strengthen the investment capacity of the Government; we shield for one band these resources and for the other band we allow the city of Barcelona, which must have a specific and differentiated tourist policy..., which can be allocated to two large blocks. For one, the one we can name in broad sense, right?: the externalities that it causes in the city, in the barrels, in the veins and the veins, to a way to redistribute the benefits better, to avoid the pressure in the public services...; problems of coexistence that we have had, and a pressure at the expense of visitors who are sometimes greater than what is the citizenry.]] [[But also – and I am glad that Mr Cid also made a point – because Barcelona must also take up its policy of promoting the city, because we come from a few years of tourism, we come from a few years of plagues of laurels, we come from a few years that have been naively decided that it is not a tourism policy, so the problems magically disappear.]] [[We consider that tourism promotion is essential precisely to direct the message, to decide the image we want to project, where we want to direct the tourism. Because, if we don't do it from the Administration, private operators do it; if you don't do it, they do it, and if they do it, it's what happened to the city of Barcelona: drunk tourism, drug tourism, stag tourism, which have degraded and made living together in the city much harder. The capital of sport has been lost, cultural, gastronomic, academic and professional tourism has been lost, and what was a business tourism in favour of an oci tourism of little added value has been unbalanced.]] [[Therefore, we have to recover, we have to have the muscles to be able to do this job, the band to continue moving towards a sustainable tourism model, with less impact of ecological petjada and better working conditions.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Second Vice President]] [[Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the votes on the validation of Decree 23/2020 and of the three single-reading processing proposals will end the debate on item 7 on the agenda.]] [[Economic facilitation law project (totality debate)]] [[200-00010/12]] [[The item on the agenda is the total debate on the Economic Facilitation Bill. To present this legislative initiative, the first word is provided by the Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement, Mrs Àngels Chacón.]] [[The Business and Knowledge Advisor]] [[Thank you very much. Deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Today we are bringing to this chamber a bill that has a very clear proposal, and it is to facilitate management for wealth generation and work places. With this text I believe that we are taking a very important step towards administrative simplification, and obviously, precisely now that we are out, we are emerging from the effects of confinement, rather than from the pandemic, more than ever this need is accentuated in order to speed up and facilitate economic activity.]] [[We've just experienced the hardest effects of this confinement. A first..., said the other day, I was also thinking, a first crisis in the offer, a second crisis in the offer, a first crisis in the demand and now a second crisis in the demand. Therefore, it is better than ever to agile what economic activity is.]] [[Because we cannot forget where the resources of the public sector come from, we cannot forget it. It is obvious that first call generate and then redistribute. Unfortunately, the presuppositional difficulties that we have seen as a result of the fiscal deficit and also of the limitations in the debt that the State has imposed on us limit the actions that the administration can perform at the time of applying public policies. Therefore, more than ever we are also aware of the resources that the Administration will then have to manage to achieve and implement these social policies.]] [[From here, also taking into account that many times we have exposed that I almost 95 percent of the more than 620,000 companies – 620,000 companies – in the country have fewer than two workers, we will hear that the complication..., the least of the complications we have to offer to entrepreneurs in this country is bureaucracy.]] [[It is no secret, I said, that the main concerns of businesses and local authorities are the handling of the so-called 'paper'; the time and efforts to be devoted to the administrative processes are no longer devoted to what is their main activity.]] [[By putting us in a position, let's observe..., we have also looked at these days, Spain occupies a discreet thirtyth position in the last Doing Business position. Therefore, there are many difficulties in setting up a business, opening a business, hiring workers, obtaining finance or paying taxes. We want to get away from these practices, we want to get closer to these countries like Denmark, Norway, Sweden...; even Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia are countries where this facilitation of economic activity also makes them richer and more cohesive, where the generation of jobs and the wealth of the country is easier.]] [[We are aware, and a few hours ago I was commenting, that of all the actions that we have for foreign investment in our country are very much the ones that make us attractive, but there is the danger that these actions will be wiped out, diluted, if later, a start on the will to bet for Catalonia at the time of implementing a new negotiation, we force the promoters to an excess of paperwork, difficulties, waste of time and, in the background, disincentive of what is the creation of a negotiation.]] [[That's why we present this bill of law, to simplify the life of everyone who wants to generate occupation and wealth in Catalonia. And it is from here that, through the pulse of the single window and digital processing, we give strength to this project.]] [[Because an idea is also being made as today the single business window has also been a support in this period of confinement, since the company channel has attended these days more than two thousand consultations, visited it more than 400,000 users and managed almost more than 170,000 shippers. The Generalitat, through this corporate management office, has worked quickly and agilely to deal with all the exhilarating ills caused by the pandemic. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same speed that the State has applied at the time of making these payments to all affected, for example, by ERTOs. And if the impact of the pandemic on the economy has already been tough, let's imagine how complicated it would have been if we hadn't had this ability to digitally view through the single window. From here I want to take advantage of the work, the compromise and the involvement of the entire team of the Office of Business Management, which has carried out these intense tasks during the days of confinement.]] [[Who are the principles that inspire this law to facilitate economic activity? So they are the principles that must allow a new relationship between the business and the administrations.]] [[Firstly, the elimination of unnecessary administrative burdens. Secondly, the rapidity in processing, starting with greater mutual trust, a standardization of procedures and a digital relationship per defect, so that entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, give their data only once; it is what we call as 'only eleven, because transparency, because the information, knowing what information has the Administration of each of the holders of the economic activity is also a right. And it is from here that we want to work in what is the quality of data, also in its unity, in transparency and interoperability.]] [[We want to work, promote data work instead of forms, and we also want to allow the promotion of communication protocols between the information systems of different administrations. It is not normal for every administration today, in full 21st century, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs to waste time presenting documentation once and for all. That is all we want to do through the only eleven, a pioneering initiative in Europe, also in Spain, which will make it easier for us to do this.]] [[Another element characteristic of this law, and which the difference respects the previous rule, is the speeding up of strategic projects through which we call it, by means of which we call it "the highway for strategic projects. One of the most important questions is the establishment of this agility for projects that facilitate the arrival of investments, that generate quality occupation, that promote economic and social development, but also the territorial of Catalonia. We've been doing this for a long time, and it's been a while since I've been explaining the foreign investment figures in this room, as I said before.]] [[We therefore plan, from the law, that the waiting time to start a business activity in Catalonia of strategic projects is reduced as at least half. That is to say, we reduce to half all the legal terms for the procedures necessary to legalize a new installation, such as urban permits, environmental license and all the specific permits in each case; also, they will benefit from the application of this only eleven principle to streamline all the different steps. It must be borne in mind that, if there are different claims to obtain, they are not normally managed in parallel, but they go one after the other. Therefore, they can chain periods of more than six months by processing lawsuits and authorizations.]] [[It also varies, and I consider it an important novelty in this law, the communication regime for all economic activities. The first rule is that all economic activities, not just the innocuous and low-risk..., through the communication system. Therefore, the differences between statements and communications are completed, and the processes in the communication regime are simplified. This means that in 90 percent of the activities you will be able to apply this communication system in order to get the activity out of the way without waiting for the assembly request.]] We remember that the term of a claim is usually six months between the communication starts and the communication is processed and the activity starts. To put a graphic example: who wants to open a furnace or an electrodomestic botiga, for example, would be subject to the communication regime. If you have less than 500_metres_squares you will only need the technical certificate indicating the suitability of the installations. At the same time, it also benefits from the possibility of giving itself autonomously or from the constitution of the limited company from the single window, as well as the realization of the rest of the necessary delays to legalize its activity and provide data only once, such as the opening communication of a work center, communication to the assembly, the legalization of low voltage installations, etc. Who are the different instruments that are established through the single business window? So the company channel as the single portal of the single business window; also the guided search of transactions that helps and guides companies to agile their searches; also the private area, which integrates the relationships between companies and administrations so as to have an integral view of all data; documentation, the legalization state of activities and establishments, also manage permissions on behalf of representatives and know the ex post control actions; it will also allow for information, warnings and other proactive innovative services. And, lastly, the directors of companies, establishments and registers so that the data that the Administration has of each company is also transparent. There is a new model of governance, a model of governance that is established from the committee to facilitate economic activity and its adviser through the Office of Business Management and also the bodies responsible for the technological solutions that collaborate with it, such as the Telecommunications and Technology Centre, the Consortium of the Open Administration of Catalonia and the different departments. Finally, the characteristics of what is being implemented with this new rule that the law establishes, also mention the inspection and sanctioning regime that is also further detailed, because we have a good ecosystem that positions us in the knowledge economy, this economy that we want to prioritize, where we lead the uptake of foreign industrial investments. And our obligation – as I said – is to put things easy because they continue to grow. This law is a tool for the service of professionals and entrepreneurs who are the result of extensive work and intensive collaboration between all business agents and the local administration. For almost two years there have been many, many work sessions with business and trade union organizations, with chambers of commerce, professional colleges, unions, self-employed... He also presented himself to the different representatives of the local world, to the technicians of the assemblies, the deputies, the associations of municipalities... And it is that at times as complicated as the present, the importance of this project takes more strength than ever to boost Catalonia's productive activity and to make the relationship between businesses and administrations faster and more efficient. Because it is precisely the harmonization of the normative differences between laws, Catalan norms, also the states and also the Europeans, that inspire the philosophy of this law. We're a micro, small and medium-sized country. A working people's country that leaves its hair to pull forward the negotiations where it works 72_per_cent of the population; 72_per_cent of the population works in small and medium-sized enterprises. And all these people – the workers, the small entrepreneurs – need to be able to devote all their time and effort to getting their project forward, because behind every new trade, behind every business, there is an illusion, there is a country that is richer in all aspects. We do not allow these illusions to undo the bureaucracy. We make things easy for anyone who wants to make Catalonia a country of opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.145.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, as no totality papers have been presented, parliamentary groups and sub-groups will intervene to determine their position, for a period of two minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.146.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. We are ahead of the debate to the totality of the bill that presents your advice, Mrs Chacón, and that carries by title the bill of facilitation of economic activity. And although this title, which seems to be ingressing, can't be very hopeful, and it seems that it's the ninth promise to put a real single business window on the market without a clear calendar, with many rules that will remain to be developed and great technical problems to put it on the market. And we already carry many years with this canteen, which we agree with; we agree that a single access is required to do all the business processes so that we don't always have to repeat the data or present the documentation many times, but we can't wait. And with this I don't want to get earned at the consulting technicians; the intention is good. They've worked hard and I want to thank your team's work, ma'am. But more than that enthusiasm and dedication are missing more things. And for me, one of the main things is to have your advice. And here you have to recognize that, unlike the parliamentary group that I represent – the Ciutadans Group – for its government, the enterprise, the autonomes, knowledge and investment have never been a priority. A government that, said for the same Mr. Torra, is not here to manage an autonomous community, is for other things. And, unfortunately, to the citizenry, to the autonomous and to the peppers, so show them every day. In fact, it is the only policy that announces that it will call elections, precisely, if it approves the premise, when the logic says that if it approves a premise it is because you want to manage it; it is because you have reached a good agreement to improve the quality of life of your fellow citizens, which really has not been so. The assumption was not even for a pre-Covid-19 situation, it was only part of an electoral campaign, nor does it obviously serve before a pandemic like which we are patenting. In this everyone gives us reason. What happens is that we don't want them to give us reason, but what we want is for things to really change. And if we look at the other pot of his government, that's another party that gives him support and that's already in his face. Mr. Aragonès, the vice president, has already brought three and a half months of paralysis unable to reorient the assumptions before the difficult health, economic and social crisis, and, moreover, at these times, is unable to prepare already the assumptions of 2021, when the society suffers and the fabric of catalarized production is growing. A person who only thinks of these moments in jails, jails to talk about his topic, are not jails to talk about autonomes or peppers or infrastructures, no, Mr. Aragones wants the jails to talk about his themes. And it's not even an enemy of a global pandemic that can focus on people, those who don't arrive at the end of the month, those who have to close their business. Therefore, the cruel reality, Madam Counselor, is that you have a great problem, and this great problem is that neither Mr. Torra nor his second are for the work, for the work of doing what the title of the bill says, that you are not for the work of facilitating nor for the work of enhancing the economic activity, and therefore you do not count on the assumption for the duration of this bill. Miri, councillor, his department has 232_million euros of annual budget, a 0.7_percent of the total budget of the Generalitat. This means that for this government the autonomes, the peppers, the reversal and all the jobs that they generate are not worth 1_percent of their presuppositional attention. And you have more TV3 presupposition than you do. They prefer the height of their report 24 hours a day, seven days a week, than the autonomies and businesses have a single window or to set up effective economic policies before the Covid-19. And I assure you that reaching this conclusion is a very disappointing conclusion, Madam Counselor, because we are an enterprising company, we are a company that takes advantage of opportunities, composed, as well as, in more than 95_per_cent, by autonomes and chimes that do not reach the working god, and they all do not come to their generous subscriptions to the Financial Times. And many haven't opened their business again, or they won't be able to keep it open many more days. The only window, if one day up, for all of them will be very late. And if we're talking about the history we've had in Catalonia, it doesn't generate any kind of trust that we can get through this bill. Their contribution to the long years has not been in the line of facilitating economic activity. They have lived in self-contribution, taking advantage of the favourable winds of the economy, without worrying about facilitating competitiveness. Today we are talking from the fiscal point of view, we are the autonomous community with more taxes, more than twice as much as the average of the rest of the communities. We have the highest IRPF tram for middle class and working class. There have been cases, and here they have been quite immoral – today they were talking about immorality – of pushing the estate tax in the midst of the pandemic, and today they have not presented a decree to put a stop to this push. And, besides, they have pushed the tourist tax, when they know that 85 percent of tourists come from foreign countries and that the sector is obliging itself. Another of the problems that Catalonia has is competitiveness, it is the lack of regulatory simplification, which ends up posing through business activity. At these times, you said that your department wanted to cut the deadlines to half to get a license, but your department, at these times, doesn't know what the deadline is, and therefore, can't raise the objection because, more than that, they rely on local law and local media, which at the moment is planted in this law. In this law there is no plantation that can hold the joints nor is it financed. Nor does it address the digital bretxa problem of autonomes and peppers. They want it to be digital, but they've never been accompanied in the transition to digitalization. Nor have they ever bothered to harmonize legislation with the rest of the autonomous communities in order to facilitate the process. If, moreover, today we are talking about the importance of the ERTOs; so, here we have a political party, which is the case of the Republican Left, unable to approve any measure that carries the word "Spain to its writing, not only to urge the Government of Spain to extend the ERTOs, which was the example of the reconstruction plan and which you voted against. All this regulation and multiple and unorganized bureaucracy has a high cost for economic agents and involves difficulties to open a business or to make it grow. And, you know, I'm convinced, Counselor, and that's why I defend it, and that's the proposal we make to the citizenry? That the best policy of facilitating economic activity for Catalonia would be to have sensible policies ahead of it. Sensats means that he has good sense, unable to do unreasonable things or to do reckless things; policies that have as priority the families, the autonomies and the peppers; policies that appear the sterilized debates, that do not harm the welfare of the citizenry or the economy, nor with their decisions nor with their declarations, that do not put the wheels to the autonomes; policies that serve the citizenry instead of using the citizenry, which is nothing to do with giving up political objectives. We need rulers who are aware that cutting reels doesn't add up, and so you won't have to go to car companies to give explanations before production stops so that the sub-administrations don't arrive. Now, more than that, they're putting jobs in jeopardy. And Catalonia needs policies that don't generate legal insecurity, that don't generate them by jumping the laws, threatening to do so, because in a democracy, the fact that you don't like a law doesn't give you right to jump it, and it gives you right to try to change it by seeking consensus and majority, using the mechanisms we have to do it. Because those who violate their rights and freedoms generate anxiety, division and patience, and drive their social partners out of business, which are the decision-making centres, and thus facilitate the relocation of economic activities. And, above all, we need sensible policies that are dedicated to defending what are the great consensus of Catalan society: fighting against racism and inequality, facilitating the generation of wealth and prosperity, guaranteeing quality public services, not tolerating corruption, fraud, privileges and mismanagement. I assure you, counsel, that this would be the best way to facilitate the Catalan economic activity. And unfortunately, until now we don't have it here in Catalonia. And this law won't fix it. Miri, because an autonomous community... we have to think that an autonomous community in which TV3 has more assumptions than the company councillor, can never go well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC – Units, Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.148.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs and MPs, well, today she was explaining to us the counselor who presents a bill on the facilitation of economic activity. A law they claim – and that's it, isn't it? – to allege administrative procedures that we ask from the Generality to companies to start an activity or, many times, to expand it. One law, probably, more than necessary and, more than that, an old claim of the business world. I wanted to make a little history, which is always good for us to contextualize and remember that in the year 2011 was approved the omnibus law here in Parliament. I remember the president but his government, as I said, that law was to solve all the bureaucratic problems of businesses and that it would actually reduce the delays a lot, right? They changed these laws, not one more or one less – they did. And a few months later, in an act of Pimec, the president recognized his weakness in this objective. That's to say, I couldn't cut down on the paperwork and lighten this bureaucratic drama that businesses saw, right? He made my fault in that act and President Josep González, the president of Pimec, said to him: "Listen to me, he is at the hands of the Administration, in his hands, solve it and, therefore, we try to move forward in this. Of those statements, of my guilt, of that approval... of the approval nine years ago, of my guilt seven years ago, and of those seven years ago we have seen little legislative activity by the government to advance in this line. Finally they will remember some of the Members who are here carrying some legislature that Councilman Felipe Puig was of those of the « let it go, let it go, and totally, listen'm, we have little to say in the intervention to facilitate the life of the enterprises, right? It's true that he was concerned only to generate a state structure that was to add all the tech centers to Eurecat, which we could also talk about another day, right? But, anyway, that government, those more business friendly governments were unable to move forward in that pocket, weren't they? Although they modified us here, I say. He said the representative of the Government..., I looked at a little the debate of that 2011, and the advisor the defender said: "Oh, listen, it's that you don't look outside the doors of Parliament, and outside the doors of Parliament the business people say you have to make a thousand journeys and that you waste a lot of time to start a business. Almost ten years later we're there, aren't we? So, I don't know exactly what that omnibus law that soroll provoked, but what is clear is that it didn't solve that objective that we all certainly agree – well, I don't know if the Ciutadans Group – but in any case, I think we can all agree that it is an objective that we should pursue. At present, data is negative and worrying, if we are to look at exactly who is giving the companies to these bureaucratic charges, right? The Chamber of Commerce, a couple of years ago, conducted a joint study with the Idescat in which they appeared, said, in a fact to three thousand companies, that two of every three Catalan companies believed that regulatory complexity clearly affected their competitiveness and that in the last five years this regulatory complexity had increased. That's to say, on account of going back, we went forward, didn't we? This is a problem that this Parliament also has. We are able to generate a lot of legislation, many times, which generates contradictions, and this causes many difficulties at the time of setting up a company or at the time of setting aside an expansion or a new reversal of that company, right? And if we go on, there's also a couple of years ago study of Sage, which is a business management company, which said that businesses lose €1,038 per second to the dedication they make to bureaucratic management, right? And in another study it was said that the entrepreneur spends between four hours and thirty-five minutes a week managing this whole process with the Administration. One already sees, reading these data, that it may be one thing, a little up a little down, but that it cannot be that, obviously, the entrepreneur has to dedicate himself to his idea of business, his business plan, to trying to sell and, as the counselor said, to generate jobs and wealth in the territory and not, obviously, to be concerned about it. Therefore, it seems unquestionable, this is a problem for businesses. Probably not the only one, and we've discussed it many times here too. One of the problems, surely, is access to finance, its size, its business growth, but this is one of them. And it's clear and it's clear on the side, therefore, of the views of the employers and, therefore, I think that in this case it is at our hands to find the solution, probably, the whole solution to this problem. That is why we congratulate ourselves on this bill, which comes to Parliament later, after a few years, but in any case, on the councillor who has been in this Parliament. So we're glad he brought it to us, too, because we've been talking to her for a few months; it's just a few counselors that he does, so I always want to recognize him, that we've found ourselves, that we haven't talked, that we've been able to get into the detail of the text and, therefore, that a little bit of work has come to this debate, haven't we? In any case, I don't know if they are able to approve it in this legislature, we should think that yes, because the legislature should finish the year it sees, but, finally, as if we are going to have elections soon, we also know very well when, because we have a divided and broken government and some white and other black sayings, the drama is that to govern this is very difficult, especially when a desire to legislate and actually want to change things, which needs a time limit that allows it to take decisions with a certain degree of tranquility, and obviously to know that there will be an electoral call here, there will be no help. Now, this law is necessary. Yeah, we're gonna have to improve it, we're gonna have to work on it, but it's necessary and hard for us to know that this probably isn't moving forward. Among other things, why have we seen as well as in some organs, so, Republican Left, which is the member of the government, one of the members of the government, has not made it very easy because this law is passed as soon as possible, has it not? Then, in the end, it looks like there's some competition to see who's the first to pass a law, doesn't it? So we're talking about the fact that there's not one approved in the social sphere. Well, that's the same thing. This law is important, this law is necessary and, therefore, we want it to be possible to work and approve as soon as possible. Now he's in on an emergency, probably this leave of one of the partners, isn't he? Well, we picked up from the first minute, which was to be processed as before, because in our time this processing was given. I also wanted to go into some aspects, some positives that have the law and some reflection because I think I could lead us to improve time. There's a lot of positives, huh? One is the standardization of the intervention rules for all establishments, huh? The counselor said so. It seems very important to us, not just for innocent and low-risk activities, but for everyone. Or, let's change the statement responsible for the communication as the only one being processed. This also seems very important to us because it gives a message of trust to businesses. I mean, we trust you, and then we come to control him. Yes, the Lord..., the deputy of the commons makes a face... Well, it's that what it can't be – what it can't be – is that a company presents a process to do or to ask for a demand of works or activity and we will take a year to answer it. We have to be more competitive, we have to be able to answer before, because that company can get tired and go to another place. Anarate in another place, or to another municipality, or to another community. But then we have a certain... obviously an obligation, some commitments that company has to make, but we have to have a certain confidence and control and a very important ex post inspection, which we probably don't have right now. And then this has to be changed. It seems to me very interesting all the data management, it is to say, if we give the data only once, but as the data management can also allow us to make smarter and more sophisticated decisions for what it does to our economic fabric, and this can benefit the local world a lot. And we also enjoyed this new development in the processing of strategic projects. It seems that if we define it well it is important to avoid not since a company does not settle in Catalonia, but we do not make it lose a year to start its activity. It seems to me that this is very uplifting, and I think that it is an element that we will also have to reflect on in order to adjust something, but it seems to me that it is important. Then there are clear assignments to the local world in this law, or it will affect municipal ordinances, that is clear, and it will change procedures in the area of sanctioning regime, change of title, formal and material requirements, inspection plans, and that we need to review very well. We have to make good calendars, we have to coordinate, and we have to see, therefore, how the approval of this law does not create difficulties in the local world and, above all, imbalances, right? And I think it's very uplifting. I also think that this law will have some consequences in the technical deployment of administrations. Not all of them are adapted, and therefore, here I think it would be worth a certain support to the local administration to make this deployment, and here it means resources, and therefore, just as in the field of inspection and control will need to put more resources in the joints, because if it is not very difficult this inspection, it also seems to me from the technological point of view. This clearly has positive aspects, we see them, we also have some doubts, some reflections linked to the local world and to some other element that we have commented on, that we believe it can improve the processing of the law through ponència, but in short, we believe that it is positive. Also Article 25, which establishes how to act before a misadjustment between administrations or between different criteria. This is the fault of the amalgam we have regulations. So, I said, there are positive elements, we have to adjust some things, but it seems to us that it is moving forward, and so, in this sense, our group will have it at its side to move forward in this line, coordinating us, so yes, so with the administrations that affect them, also to the State, huh? , which has a different platform than that which the Generalitat has, for example, for which it does the point of attention to the entrepreneur, but I think that with the will to collaborate and advance, we can achieve it. Let us hope that the legislature will allow us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.149.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix its position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.150.0	Thank you very much. MPs and MPs, counselor, I'll start a little like Alice started, because these days she was going through the sessions of at least the two laws that have been on this line in our recent past. It's not the first time we've discussed economic facilitation measures in Catalonia. The first was with the omnibus laws, the Law of simplification, agility and administrative restructuring, and the Law of promotion of economic activity. A set of laws that changed a few laws into a single vote and that were already legally questionable because, in fact, they do not complement the principle of material homogeneity mandated by this Parliament. But there is also a curious thing, which was handled urgently, it went from fifteen days of public hearing to a week, and it obviously stole parliamentary processing and parliamentary debate on conditions, in some laws and which marked the fate of that government. The second law, the Law 16/2015, of simplification of the administrative activity of the Generalitat and of the local governments, approved also to correct, two days of appearances – it allows them to the actions in the intervention of the company Alicia. Laws affecting the rights of consumers, citizens, environmental impact assessments, municipal competitions, etc. Two days of appearances and emergency vote. And this, again, urgent procedure, if you want to approve before there is a possible election call there will be a day or two appearances, and you will have to approve correctness or at the end of this month or September. And we believe it is obvious that all the laws of administrative simplification, all the laws that play with environmental impact regulations, with urban regulations, with the municipal powers of this country, and that disrupt economic activity in the name of administrative simplification, have been doing, for years, correcting itself in breach of parliamentary and emergency debate. And I think it's a motivator that expresses itself too often, and that's what I'd like to reflect on. There is no urgency, there is no reason to justify the urgency of this process, no one at all. In all the text there is no reason to justify why we steal the necessary parliamentary debate, why we steal the necessary appearances in law administered, in municipal law, in environmental law, in urban law, etc. There's no one. And I think it's obvious that it's a story that's repeated too often. All these laws are based on a principle, which Alicia already knew we would discuss, which is the minimum intervention. Do you know what is being discussed, in 2015, between our parliamentary group and the government group? On the touristic floors, because Convergence and Union said that the Barcelona Assembly had tics authorized at the time of imposing moratoriums on hotels and touristic accommodation; and we said that a city in this country can open a touristic pool with an administrative communication is a bogery, that will deregulate the market of logger, which will form part of a policy, also driven by your party, to inflate the speculative bottle of loggers in this country and to pass the real estate bottle to the market of logger. « – No, this is an administrative facilitation. That's the end of the story. One, today, wants to start an activity that affects environmental regulations, which affects urban regulations? I'll let you know, and then we'll see if we can intervene and if you're in compliance with the regulations. Because, of course, we are taking a long time to resolve the processing that you have put in place for this activity, and we have to believe that the details in the Public Administration that you have done during these years in the Catalonian Government and in the joints, that make administrative processing difficult, you will solve it from here to six months with a group of economic activity inspectors in that country. And I honestly don't believe it. And I honestly believe that, in the coming years, we will find each time more cases of economic activities that have begun their incompatibility with regulations for the prevention of occupational, urban, environmental risks and that the only intervention we have is when they come to TV3 saying: "There has been a failure here, there has been a failure there..., and then we say: "Oh, now we intervene, when we should have intervened a priori, demanding that the regulations be complied with. Because no one believes that the details of public workers there have been during these years we revert to inspectors. There's the Labour Inspectorate. We are in favour of facilitating all possible administrative processing and believe that there are telematic tools to do so, and we believe that it is only for a city that wants to start an administrative processing to put its data to the Assembly to resolve municipal processing, then to send its data to the Chamber or to send its data to the Generality and to do, one time and another, the same processes or to repeat them. We believe that there should be a single space, from which a city that wants to start an economic activity can do so, simplifying all administrative passages. Now, as Alícia's company put it, the companies said, in the reports of the Chamber of Commerce, two_of_each_three that affects the administrative passages to their activity. Now, perhaps many years ago, we have been going through administrative procedures, which are guarantees of the conjunction of the citizenry in urban matters, in environmental matters, in the field of public space uses, etc. And maybe we're going through for many years what they are, they say they're administrative, they're detailed in the public administration that affects the processing times in this country. And what we're doing is doing this and we're still betting on economic deregulation as it is to generate economic growth, as you said in your intervention, it seems very dangerous to me, because you said: "First we need to produce and then we need to distribute. I think the honest question, after two years of saying this, is: What economic inequality is there in this country? What level of production should there be in this country, why is it time to distribute? Because during all these years – and different unions denounced it at the beginning of 2019 – despite economic growth, social inequalities have continued to increase. As far as we were concerned..., perhaps we were already there, to arrive at what we wanted to produce before we redistributed; 7 points per second is Catalonia's social expenditure of the European Union; 5.4 points per second is the fiscal pressure of Catalonia respects the European Union. And you and Pilar Rahola crying for TV3 every day because taxes were increased to the middle and upper classes of this country. I don't know, maybe I don't just want to first produce and then distribute, but we won't get out of this crisis if we don't have a public mobilization of resources that undertakes the economic recovery of this country and that will, yes or yes, go through a distribution of wealth, because you intervene, intervene; social intervention, in fire, what happens is that we don't share it. And you're not fully aware. His department, helping local people, has filled its mouth with the fact that local people will now have "administrative facilitation for what they want. To the Department of Treball, if you want, but you can access it from the channel of Enterprise: 7.5_million help to autonomes, 17_million to Ferrovial; not, if intervene, intervene; the problem is that we do not share as intervene. And the fundamental problem – and I'm done with this – is that it's clear that everyone agrees with administrative rationalisation; everyone agrees to put digital tools to facilitate the administrative tasks of companies. We do not agree that the necessary public controls should be eliminated, because in these public controls there are the rights of all the citizens of this country. We wouldn't get out of this crisis with the old receipts, and his speech seemed like a speech for the government of the best of 2009, 2010. We're not going to get out of this crisis by blowing down taxes. We won't get out of this crisis by saying that the more the economy is disrupted, the more the economy will flourish because of that economic theory that says that if your logo expels you from the piss and poses a touristic piss is generating wealth. And we won't get out of this crisis of public service. And, therefore, we need to think about other types of intervention; do we need to digitise the relationship between companies and public administration, if this facilitates economic activity? Yes, but we have to intervene in Industry 4.0, in which the trade of this country can cope with the digitalization of trade, the digitalization of industry, the completion of the National Pact for Industry in this country. Because to say that facilitating administrative crossings in this country will promote economic recovery, it has been said and has not been done for years now, not twice as often as you have done so far, well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix its position now has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, the deputy mayor Vidal Aragonés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.152.0	Although we do not exploit a few topics and, as the hemisphere has experts and experts in the right administration, they will be able to correct me if I am wrong, but on the demand of works can operate the silent administration; the maximum delay..., the term, better said, are six_months and even most of the assemblies of our country fix it between one and two_months. I'm telling you why we can play a whole series of topics about administrative processing, but after the rules say what you say. And I may be wrong, but since there are architects in this room and there are experts and experts in law administration, they will be able to correct me after the intervention. Counselor, miri, we'd like to ask you a first question. So, what's the bill, do you think it's bureaucracy? If I came here today with the shopping cart that I use, with the eighty-three documents that signify the processing of this law, did you say that this is bureaucracy? Not for us. This isn't bureaucracy for us. They are guaranteed, they are controlled, in a society that wants to be democratic and wants to be advanced. We want to express it that way, it wants to be democratic and advanced, because we think it has too many weaknesses to give it this characterization, democratic and advanced. Some business sectors, curiously the most resourced, establish that they do not want regulations, controls or guarantees. But those of society that do not have economic resources – we have others or think we can have others – obviously we need rights and we need guarantees and, above all, we need the administration to intervene. This pre-reflection was translated because, above all at the presentation of the reasons for this law, what we find is the explosion at the most and beyond the great neoliberal topics. The first: the creation of enterprises is limited by the administrative procedures. Look, one thing is that the two great employers do the same thing every two years, with subjective questions, and the perception that they answer on the part of the enterprise before these subjective questions, and another thing is, that it has never really proved to be from a quantitative point of view – quantity – for companies really or anything that wants to do an economic or productive activity the administrative procedures are a real limitation. It's two very different things. And the second, or the second dogma: that the minority of obligations and guarantees drives economic activity. And someone's gonna tell us, and where's the law? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mirin, of the literal, in short, of what this law proposal says..., this bill of law, forgives: "The main purpose of this law is to boost economic activity. In one band, redefin the administrative charges to the companies. That's what you say. According to them: "Now, so that administrative units with competence in these old questions because these processes of gathering information and authorization, if ladder, do not involve an excessive bureaucratic burden for companies. That's what you say. And what we have to say to him is that, obviously, what can stimulate the economy is not the fact – and it is not the quantity and it is not substantial – of reducing guarantees and rights in processing, but the active role that the Administration can play in the drive of the economy. In the band of this, we set an example. With the approval of this law, it would be much simpler, in the process of administration, the example that you set: to start the activity of a furnace of pa, than to process the guaranteed income of citizenship. And this is the reality that we have in this country: more simple, much simpler, to process an activity such as you have set an example, a furnace of bread, than the guaranteed income of citizenship. And lastly, for what it does to this issue, our country has already reduced the administrative procedures and guarantees: Read 26/2010. Mirin, that you copied Law 30/92 to the amendments of 4/99, so it is your responsibility, but there we already had the principle of minimal intervention and administrative simplification. And then, later: approval of Law 16/2015, where they are already out of order, and even out of order for a part of the matter of this law, which is the local governments. That said, we are absolutely in favour, of a single business window, of coordination between public administrations, of pro-active digital services, of promoting business and strategic projects; that is, that it is not a mere application of the administrative right we already have. Unique window, yes; digital administration, yes; agil administrative processing, yes. And that's right, deregulation of procedures, no; lack of control over businesses, no; lack of guarantees, no. And you have explained, counsel, reduced by 50_percent in the time of urban permits and environmental litigation, and that 90_percent of activity is solely and exclusively in the communication system. That's what this regulation means.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix its position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the congressman Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.154.0	Thank you, President; counsel, deputies and deputies, almost the intervention I had already prepared to leave the band and make another type of intervention, right? But let me start with a statement, with a statement that I think is very sincere: the exercise of an economic activity is a right of the citizens, it is not a grace of the Administration, it is a right. And in order to exercise this right, certain requirements must be fulfilled. And they can do two things. A first: require the compliment of these requests before this city can exercise its right, or allow it to exercise its right under its responsibility, and, in any case, after controlling that right is effectively exercised according to the standards required. And, therefore, the question that we are discussing is not whether the Administration should be faster or less rapid in relation to certain administrative procedures, but whether or not the Administration trusts the citizens. Yes, it is a question of trust in the citizens and it is a question of allowing those people who have the right to exercise an economic activity to exercise it, complementing all their obligations. A decentralized state, a decentralized administration, must not constitute a multi-centralized administration. It has not been mentioned, but the great problem of the administrative procedures for the opening of activities is not the Administration of the Generality, which is an administration; it is that in Catalonia there are 947 different regulations, one for each joint. And this has been the big problem: that depending on which street you want to exercise a certain activity you need more, less standards; it's more wheat or it's less wheat to open a certain establishment, to exercise a certain economic activity. And this is the objective of the 2011 reforms, of which we feel responsible to an important degree. The law of 2015 seeks to correct those things that did not just work with the same laws, and this law they still claim is to go one step further and try to correct other aspects. I'll do it. And it does that positively, but it will allow me to quote some things that we understand not to be resolved and that have not been mentioned, but that I think it is essential to quote them. Since the single business window inn, there have been a lot of meetings that have gone into this process, they are more than nine hundred, if I don't recall badly, and there are a few that are in progress and there are others that aren't added. Ah! But there isn't one that just doesn't add up, but it doesn't want to add up. Ah, Barcelona, the independent republic of Barcelona, that says: "No, escort, Generalitat, follow you who adapt to my system. We have not touched on this subject and I need to touch it because it is important, it is important, that the most important assembly in Catalonia, in one way or another, embraces this joint administrative simplification for the benefit of the citizenry. It's not for the benefit of one administration or another. Second element. The integration of processes does not have, cannot be only vertical, cannot be only between levels of administration, must also be horizontal, that is to say, it is very good that we integrate processes, joints and Generality, but also between joints must integrate the procedures of Urbanism, of Medi Ambient, Public Road, Sanitary..., and between the Generality, of Interior, of Health, of Agriculture... That is to say, there must also have this horizontal integration. And here there is also work on the part of the department in the measure that the rest of the departments have also integrated into this new single business window model. I have one objection left, one small objection, but it is important for whom it is to suffer. The changes in ownership, which often go unnoticed, mean that there is continuity in the exercise of an economic activity. And what it can't be is, because there's a lack of administrative authority that I don't know what department I don't know where, that change of ownership is converted into a tank, into a "waits for administrative authority to then re-open; and the workers, what? Therefore, it is another element that needs to be corrected. I'm done. In the intervention..., in the previous decree someone spoke that it was not possible to snoop and rejoin at the same time. We agree. We're more of a snooze, a snooze because people can do it and the country can pull forward. We already know that others are more than juxtaposition, juxtaposition and juxtaposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfons Montserrat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.156.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies. Good morning. Well, this week here in Parliament was the bill for the creation of the Català d'Empreses y Drets Humans Centre developed for the Business and Human Rights working group, which has counted on the support of the parliamentary groups of commons, CUP, Socialists, Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, and today is giving processing to the Project of the Law of Facilitating Economic Activity. And this, in conjunction, represents a way of hearing the relationship between administration and business, between public and private, on criteria that, in truth, we feel comfortable; demand, however, also facilitated, and strict standards accompanied by an administration that is close and agile at the time of making sure that it is complete. This bill of law we also think that up at an appropriate time, our companies already return to business, trades work the Persians, entrepreneurs continue or restart their projects because after months closed because of the need to fight the Covid-19 is the time for a recovery of economic activity and also to think or rethink as we do. These months of confinement have forced us to reinvent many projects and of course we are all familiar in our day-to-day cases as have appeared improvised online catalogs or command systems for WhatsApp, payments for Bizum, etc. And in the dam we see how the restaurants cards continue for QR, workers and workers who still do the work at a distance or those who already do it in person, how they incorporate the masks, gels or new work configurations or we habit. And the fact is that, as a company, we've adapted quickly, so have the companies, and that's why the Administration is at its side in these adaptation processes. And I'm convinced he's on the side. He doesn't mean to lower standards, does he? Nor to lower standards of work, environment, equality, etc., nor to leave it in the hands of "let it be done, let it be done, let it pass, because this practice represents defending monopolies or the returns of large enterprises. We do not understand this, but we understand that freedom is against domination, and that this domination, oppression, cannot only come from the State but also from an unequal distribution of resources before which the intervention of a state, which is democratic, must be the guarantee of freedom. So we understand, to be on the side, to build an agile administration that avoids unnecessary crossings, that it understands that it is serving the citizenry and not to use the citizenry. We create an intelligent administration able to take advantage of the potential of human capital and leadership capacity, which gave the professorship of Economics, Mariana Mazzucate, who called..., that the repte, the great repte was to leave behind the only business model to move on to a entrepreneurial model where the State is also leading innovation and economic growth. In short, it is not about whether to make a larger or smaller state, but it is about making a proactive and diligent state. And that's what they want to make this economic facilitation law that the government is presenting today, a law that understands that it is the responsibility of the Administration to work together and to be as efficient as possible at the time of taxation and accompanying our business fabric, and also a law that reform, in a substantial way, some of the Administration's functions, that takes advantage of all the potential offered to it by the new technologies to ensure transparency and certitude at the time of relating to the world of business. It is, in short, a matter of reformulating how we work to achieve an efficient administration that helps to grow pimes and autonomes. And here's an important change as it is going through – the advisor said – to manage formulas, which is a more close activity of the 20th century to manage data, with which we already fully place ourselves in the 21st century, they understand that companies have to make data, as she pointed out before, a_only cop, following the principle of only eleven, and that it is the work of the Administration to collaborate and cooperate in order not to introduce them repeatedly. For this reason, it also bets on a unified processing and a faulty digital relationship that, accompanied by better rules and simplification of processing, will speed up the business' relationship with the Administration and eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. In this way, the initiative capacity of the Administration is boosted, because we do not want a timid administration, but we want a proactive administration, which does not only keep the data provided by the companies, but also that it is able to take advantage of these data to take a proactive role. The law gives muscle to the Administration to promote strategic business projects for the country's joint venture and the company, that is to say, those companies that invest for innovation, for a knowledge economy, for projects that generate occupation and bring a high added value. And here, therefore, we will also have to be loving to see how it happened..., as we ended up driving so as to ensure that, effectively, this motorway is only available for projects that bring us closer to a more innovative, more sustainable and also more inclusive economy. A law like this necessarily has to start with a model of mutual trust, in which the company can obtain authorizations through responsible statements, but also with a subsequent taxation, huh? , a responsible statement, which must not be a free bar, but is a mechanism of agility, and which can be replaced by expected control in causes of compelling reasons of general interest. In short, this law will create a climate that continues to consolidate Catalonia as one of the most effective regions to invest. This month of February, the magazine of the prestigious daily Financial Times re-recognised Catalonia as the best region to invest in southern Europe. I in the 2014-2018 period, huh? , foreign investment increased by 45_per_cent more than in the previous five years, and 2018 Catalonia was once again, the second region of Western Europe in terms of jobs associated with direct foreign investment. Therefore, for many real campaigns of expulsion of entrepreneurs, it is certain that in the last few years Catalonia has highlighted not only nine companies, but also creating their own, while the net creation of mercantile societies was reduced, to the period of generation in October, to the State in a 2,7_per_cent, in Catalonia increased by 3,5_per_cent. And in this law the conditions arise because Catalonia continues to feel a dynamic pole of talent creation and enterprise. And that's what we need to point out, because it's not giving up the political idea of how investments or projects and work places are attracted, just laying down the conditions for these projects to thrive in our country. It is not giving up our right to decide how the country, but investing in a basic network and a search infrastructure; nor giving up regulating the action of the private sector, but betting on an administration capable of collaborating and accompanying it. Here we will not be obsessed in old and repeated debates, in debates between whether we have to make a big state or a small state, between whether we have to intervene in the economy or not, but that the debate is about how we build an intelligent state that has the capacity to lead in promoting an inclusive knowledge economy..., inclusive and sustainable, and above all how we build a state that is the engine of growth and innovation. In this project we have an essential stone to build this state that we want from the 21st century. It's not the only stone, but it is an essential stone. And, as they pointed out before, we don't know how far this legislature will allow us to complete the process, but if that wasn't so, we need to conjure up to get it back as soon as possible, because it is essential that we have all the necessary tools to continue with the growth and dynamism of our businesses and trades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.158.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable counsel... I also greet the staff of the council that has made it possible – and the technicians – that we have here today for this bill, because in view of the situation of the pandemic they cannot be present as surely serious in normal situations. This law if it was necessary before the pandemic, in the social and economic situation in which we now find ourselves, only the latest estimates that GDP can fall to 11_per_cent the absolutely essential fan. So, actually, it's totally logical to deal with extraordinary urgency, as it was asked, because, precisely, if it's a law to expedite transactions, we may also have to set an example by speeding up the same process of the law. And even all the objections posed, in this sense, therefore, by Mr Cid, of the commons, in any case, to the Bureau were not made manifest by his representative there and he did not see any inconvenience in that it is processed by this extraordinary urgency. The obligations of administrations in their economic activity are to provide a stable _framework to create this economic activity and to create businesses. Finally, I would like to say a kind _framework for the creation of entrepreneurs, obviously, by putting investment in infrastructures, both physical and technological, and by guaranteeing, of course, the compliment of all the regulations of security, of consumer rights, of workers' rights, taxation..., but without that it means an additional charge that in minus competitiveness. We come from a tradition of bureaucratic rigidity strongly influenced by a legal culture based on mistrust and overregulation that makes it very difficult for effective and innovative action, and this will correct, precisely, this mentality. Administrations must have a proactive attitude in developing policies that strategically guide investments, and this is precisely how to strengthen this sense of government. We have the examples of reaction on the economic activity, and here I do have to make clear toilets to the Group of Commons, political leaders of their formation, like the mayor of Barcelona, who when he closed the Nissan was glad that they would stop making cars; or even all the vice president of the government, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, with whom they now share the government of the PSOE, right? We can, who spoke of nationalizations, even others spoke of anti-localization norms, which are anti-inversion norms. Even Mrs. Albiach, the president of your group, shouted a boycott of Nissan. If they want to boycott one of those guilty of leaving Nissan, do it to the State, which in its day did not make the investments and infrastructure compromised or facilitate the energetic transition that the company had demanded – it is not the only cause, but it was one of the causes. The councillor refers to the reality of our business fabric: 90 percent of companies have fewer than two workers and 95, less than fifty, and, therefore, as legislation adapts to this reality. Because all the legislation that is done is thought for businesses, it's a regulation that has to exist, it's a regulation that has to be completed, that has to be verified, but obviously, applied without any modulation or flexibility to this business reality means a charge for competitiveness and even for survival. And this law, precisely, will affect and correct this administrative mentality as much as these bureaucratic practices, because "Economic facilitation law... but the full title is" the facilitation of digital economic activity, because this is the other great novelty of the law. And it's no longer just a matter of talking about speeding up bureaucratic processes but, precisely, fully incorporating technology, data usage, data processing, this bureaucratic agility. The main novelty– and, obviously, I am very pleased to see – is to give once the company's data for all its processes, for all administrations– once for all processes to all administrations– and, moreover, to formulate, manage digitally, and you will not just transform it into a PDF. Evidently, another great novelty is, precisely, to establish this administrative highway for strategic business projects, to give them an urgent process, which also allows a political action to define which are these strategic business projects, which, logically, are linked – and thus specifies – to which they add value, innovation, technological presence, but also territorial vertebration, development of traditional sectors, environmental protection, protection of diversity, reconciliation of the work environment; that is, an authentic reconciliation of technology, but obviously with social consciousness. Obviously, the law foresees reducing bureaucratic workloads, speeding up processing, will also provide management services and business data analysis – since it will have these data –, be able to give a useful treatment with these data. And precisely what I was saying: to change that model of relationship of mistrust, of presumption of guilt of the administrator for a relationship of mutual trust and of digital relationship between the Administration and the administrator. Consolidated already the unique window, which was already the result of a collaborative work of the Government with representatives of the different economic agents and of the local world; it also consolidates the governance of this model of the business-management relationship through the Commission for the Facilitation of Economic Activity, which will have to evaluate the implementation of policies precisely in order to prove its effectiveness and propose the best that correspond to it. And, obviously, so yes, the great novelty, and it is also important to pass... – what I said was linked to trust –, by default, to the prior communication rule, and then, effectively, yes, proof. That is to say, that it is easy to initiate the activity only with communication in the vast majority of activities does not mean that it minimizes the administrative action of complimenting the regulations. This is why a system is established, logically, of proof, that is afterward, that does not hinder the iniciator of the activity, but that, naturally, also guarantees the public interest of the compliment of all the regulations to which it refers. The impact of the law is very clear. This legislation, which has no precedents, will benefit 564,000 businesses, 362,000 autonomes, 89_percent of Catalan businesses occupying 2.8_million workers, which is 84_percent of the total for which it makes autonomes, benefits for 91_percent of autonomes. And there is an estimate, that the reduction of delays and the simplification of procedures will entail an estimated reduction in costs of 38,4_million euros. It is a pioneering regulation in Europe – this also has to be done with reference to the international arena –, follows the European directive and the OECD recommendations, and integrates the three levels of administration: català, locale and statal. And, moreover, Catalonia already leads at European level other initiatives of administrative facilitation oriented to the impulse of economic activity, such as the Interreg Europa Start Easy project. We have to point out, too – and it is recent information and some other Members have already made reference – that the Intelligence division, of the Financial Times group, together with The Next Web, conclude that Barcelona and Catalonia – and this is also due to the action of this government and this consultancy – have the second best strategy in Europe to capture foreign investment from a technological background, just behind London. And yes, this is our policy and as we understand it must be the work of government. The creation of wealth and jobs are the best social policy. The vital minimum ingredient, which was essential to approve, we don't have to hear it as a..., it's an essential solution, it's a necessary solution, but it's still a weakness like society. Without a productive economy there can be no type of distributive economy, and the Administration, as a guarantor of the public good, must accompany, help businesses, facilitate businesses, but not engage businesses. I find it extremely positive – and I stress this – that there are no totalities in the law. I place all the groups to whom we can deal with it with this extraordinary urgency, both from the scepticism manifested by Mr Cano as from the collaborative attitude, therefore, of Mrs. Alicia Romero. I think we need to replace ourselves to be able to approve it in this legislature. And I am left, lastly, with the words of the councilwoman, when she presented the law, which, for a band, recognized that one of the main contractors for self-government and businesses was the bureaucracy, but that, precisely, it was trying to make a law to make them easier. Therefore, this law, as our constitutions say, is a necessary and useful law for the good government of the Earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.159.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this initiative can continue its processing. We will now vote on all the points that have been debated during this morning's session. Before, however, the adventitious fact that the proposed alteration of the order of the day of this session has been such that point 23, concerning the inquiry to the Government on the protocol of civil protection for the care of persons before heavy emergencies in Catalonia, can be substantiated in the place of point 27, concerning the inquiry to the Government on the effects, repts and digital opportunities come out of the Pandemic of Covid-19. Therefore, an intercanvi between points 27 and 23. Can this alteration be approved by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, we're going to vote, as I said, the points that have been debated this morning. Before the votes begin, which seventy-seven Members and Members have delegated their vote, they have joined the telematic vote and thirty-nine will do so face-to-face. Thus, as Mr Rafel Bruguera said when using the word, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar withdrew its motion for a moratorium on the increase in the tax on stays in tourist establishments and, therefore, will not vote. [[Decree of 23/2020 of 9 June on urgent measures in the field of taxation (continuation)]] [[203-00048/12]] Let us therefore proceed to vote on the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to Decree 23/2020 of 9 June on urgent measures in the field of taxation. We're voting on the validation of the decree. The vote begins... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.160.0	I was supposed to be able to vote from my sco, but there was no way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.161.0	So now we look at it, and in any case, we will repeat the vote. [[Pause.]] You must have failed the system because, according to what we know, you are well-suited to the echo you correspond to. So, let's re-vote and, in any case, let's hope this time it's possible... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wait a minute. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Let's hope the technical service... [[Long break.]] According to the delegated votes you have, let's say; I don't know if they've all been delegated? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, that's just a vote, yeah. [[Long break.]] All right, so let's do the vote again. I repeat that it is the vote on item 3 of the agenda; therefore, corresponding to Decree Law 23/2020 of 9 June of urgent measures in the matter of taxation. Vote. Decree-Law 23/2020_was validated by 82 votes in favour– 64 face-to-face and delegate correspondents, and 18 telematics–, 4 against and 49 abstentions. [[Pause. The president gives the word to Santi Rodríguez and Serra.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.162.0	Yeah. It's not for nothing, but it's not coming out. I was able to vote, I didn't score my vote on the electronic dial. I don't know, for that matter, whether it's accounted for or not... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.163.0	It's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's If you want, I repeat the results: there are 82 votes in favour, 4 against and 49 abstentions. Once validated, I'm told to ask the chamber if any group can process as proposed by the law this decree. Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Proposition of moratoria law in the application of the tax on stays in tourist establishments (continuation)]] [[202-00072/12]] So let's proceed to vote on the following point, which is the fourth, which corresponds to the proposal for processing directly and in single reading before the Ple of the proposed law of moratorium on the application of the tax on stays in tourist establishments. Let's get to the vote. This proposal for a single reading was rejected by 41 votes to 94 with no abstentions. Given the outcome of the vote, therefore, this initiative will not be dealt with for a single reading, and therefore will be dealt with according to the ordinary legislative procedure. [[Law proposed to effectively abolish the tax burden on tourism before Covid-19 (cont'd)]] [[202-00073/12]] And finally, we vote on the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to the proposal for direct and single reading before the Plenum of the Law Proposal to effectively abolish the tax burden on tourism before the Covid-19. Vote. This proposal was rejected by 41 votes in favour, 94 against—correspondents to 76 delegates and face-to-face, and 18 telematics—and no abstention. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.164.0	Because, of course, there is one vote left. As in the previous vote: thirty-six plus four – which I suppose of the PP – and I see no other spontaneous who has joined the [[the timer riu]] vote... they've done something with the PP vote and they're voting for one more person. [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.165.0	The problem has been confusing, because the vote... Mr. Santi Rodriguez had the delegated vote, which is what we found in the documents he entered. [[Seeing the background and pause.]] The delegated vote, which he had delegated, and the face-to-face vote was added. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.166.0	Precisely, while we were trying to clarify the issue, I did the consultation on whether I had precisely delegated the vote, and the answer from our coordinator was that it was not, that Mr.Fernández had two delegated votes, and I did not have a delegated vote. But the second question for which he was asking the word is in the sense that Mr Carrizosa said: there were 40 face-to-face votes, 77 delegates and 18 telematics, that is 135, and I remember that there is a Member who has not taken possession, and therefore only 134 Members. There's something that hasn't just squared...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.167.0	No, no; there are 77 deputies who have delegated their vote, 18 telematics and 39 face-to-face.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.168.0	So in the panel don't appear 40.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.169.0	What's going on is that I understand that his was added, that he was delegated, and, at the same time, he was added to his face. Therefore, in any case, we will effectively review the delegation. But the gap goes by your vote, Mr. Rodriguez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.170.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session... [[Decree of 22/2020 of 2 June, determining the competent bodies to deal with penalties for breaches of the regulations of the state of alarm reported by different police units]] [[203-00047/12]] ...with the eighth point of the order of the day, which is the debate and validation of Decree Law 22/2020 of 2 June, for which the competent bodies are determined to process sanctions for breaches of the regulations of the state of alarm denounced for the different police units. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place the Internal Counsel will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. There's an inside counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.171.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. They came to present the Decree Illi, on 22/2020, of 2 June, even though no one escapes that from here a pair or three points will also be treated the Decree Illi 26/2020, of 23 June, which complements this, right? So, I'm also going to do a big deal about where a decree and another one go, which are practically the same – what we do is a punctuality, with 26 – and in this way, when the point of the other decree is dealt with, of the 26, which has other materials, surely this concrete thing that affects what is the matter or the competent agencies at the time of processing the sanctions, so they can go through it in the debate. Basically, Decree 22 determines which organs are competent in time to process the sanctions that have been imposed around what is the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. You know that there was a law decree, a royal law decree, which is 463 of March 14, 2020, in which urgent measures were decreed in various subjects, set limits on mobility, set limits on citizen activity and also set out who were the competent bodies at the time of management and coordination. To hear us, what he did was: he decreed a new logic to which we had the citizens and citizens of the rest of the Spanish State and also of Catalonia; he fixed this new logic on us, the fruit of a pandemic that we were living, which is the Covid-19, as you well know, and at the same time also made clear who was, therefore... who was in front of the police bodies, who coordinated the police bodies, all the police bodies of the Spanish State. From here, the police of Catalonia – the police of Catalonia with the benevolence that is composed of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the Police of the Generality, and the local police and urban guards – processed sanctions according to this new royal decree or this new legal logic that we had under the State. These sanctions have been brought forward around 140,000, some 140,000 acts have been raised, and from here, therefore, an obviously bureaucratic, administered process has been generated to carry out these sanctions. It is worth saying that, of these 140,000, a 60_per_cent approximately – not above – raised them up, put them in the Generality Police's body, the Squadron Mosses, a 60_per_cent approximately, and a 40_per_cent raised them up, put them in the local police and urban guards. Therefore, there has been a job of the two police units, or of the 217 police units, if they want, because in Catalonia we have 216 local police units, counting also the urban guards, plus the dissette, which are the Squad Mosos. These sanctions hinge on two laws; one law is the Law of Public Salvation and the other law, the law of citizen security. Therefore, in the matter of competition, in the Law of Civil Security, in the case of the Government of Catalonia, the organ manager would be the Department of Interior; in the case of the Law of Public Health, the organ manager, the organ competent would be the Department of Health. Obviously, you know that the Health Department is now immersed in the fight against the pandemic and it's the department, so, which is sure, it's obvious, because it's the authority in health care..., I said to them that it's the department that's devoting more hours to it than any department. Therefore, if we are in a logic that some sanctions have been imposed that the agency competent to manage these sanctions is the Department of Health, but the Department of Health is now immersed in the struggle for the Covid-19, we made the decision to centralize all sanctions, as long as they come for the Public Salvation Law as they came for the Law of Citizen Security, to centralize all of them to the Department of Interior. I mean, this in the Interior Department wasn't easy either. They expect the Department of Interior to manage approximately thirty thousand sanctions in the year; a normal year, thirty thousand sanctions. And we're talking about 140,000 inns in these short three months, aren't we? , of management of the Covid. So, presumably this year, if we did the same numbers as the previous year, we would have the normal thirty-thousand, the usual of the whole year, plus these 140,000; therefore, we would be around about 170,000 sanctions that could be raised by the Department of Interior and manage by the Department of Interior. What's that supposed to mean? It involved a redeployment of staff from the Interior Department. Obviously, all the lawyers, all the people who make the legal advisory tasks to the Department of Interior have had to dedicate themselves or will devote themselves, with great effort, to managing these 140,000 sanctions, but we have therefore the Government of the Generality, which was better than these efforts coming from the Department of Interior and not so much from the Department of Health, that the Department of Health is to continue to manage the pandemic in the best way possible. I have explained to them that approximately 40 percent of these sanctions have been imposed by local police and city guards. Therefore, we have also started discussions with the Catalan Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the Catalan Association of Municipalities for, therefore, at the time of receiving these sanctions, as it is practical..., above all, it is very little above, but around this 40_percent of sanctions have been imposed by the local police, a part of the amount that can be assumed that these sanctions have also been returned to the assemblies, because it is logical, isn't it? And anyway, we're working with what formula would be the most idony because the joints also have a part of this recap. And we're working on this line. But that would be on the final tram, one time it's been charged. Presumably, before these sanctions, there will be resources and there will be an administered process, with all the rights that any citizen of this country has. So, then, when the whole process ended, and one time I covered the penalty, so, a percentage should go for the joints. And, therefore, we have time, but I am convinced that we will reach an agreement as soon as possible. It goes to band what is the Barcelona Assembly. The Assembly of Barcelona, you know that it has the municipal charter, it is a proper charter, it has different powers and competences to the rest of the municipalities of Catalonia, and therefore the Assembly of Barcelona would be excluded from these decrees, basically because they have the capacity to manage all these shippers; the rest of the municipalities, no. Therefore, let's say that when I talk about the assemblies, I am talking about 946 assemblies, Barcelona apart, because Barcelona will be able to manage this processing of these sanctions. That's why we made this decree law, because the work was done by the police, and they vetoed the fulfillment of the standards we had then, and, at the same time, they also guaranteed, also, that in the case that there are people who want to put at risk others, I do not complete this confinement that was decreed, therefore, to put them at risk, the others, so obviously the police that does it is to do their work, that is to make them comply with the standards and sanction those who correspond. Therefore, also a thank you to this group of 25,000 officers we have of the police of Catalonia, about 25,000 agents between local police and Mossos d'Esquadra, also, for having aged for our security and having had to meet the standards as they were written. I count on them to support this decree, and that we can take it, and in this way also to release from this bureaucratic, administrative task, the Department of Health, that what we have to do is get old, let's say, from the medical optics and not from the bureaucratic optics, that this work is already done by the Department of Interior. Thank you very much. And nice late.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.172.0	Thank you, Counselor. We will then move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to fix their opposition. In this turn of intervention, according to the Board of Spokespersons, the speaking time will be a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroups. The first word is for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, deputy Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.173.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor..., first of all I would like to highlight, in view of the serious situation we are experiencing, that during the eye of the hurricane of this pandemic that has attacked us, to say the least, here began in March, and the Spaniards have behaved in an exemplary way, in general, complying with the rules of a harsh confinement. It has also been exemplary the work of the security forces and bodies, which, in the face of the grave danger posed by this pandemic and the demand for a harsh confinement and a state of alarm, have courageously carried out their work, curbing crime, as always, and applying to those incivical behaviors that in an disrespectful minority have been declared in certain locations..., with the necessary rules of confinement, which, I insist, mostly the citizens complied with in a scrupulous manner. Forces and security forces among which are, as it must be, our Mossos d'Esquadra, to whom, first of all and from here, I would like to acknowledge and thank you for your tireless work, especially in the face of such a difficult situation. Recognition and gratitude that, in addition to being extended to our other forces and state security bodies – local police, Civil Guard, National Police –, in the same way as to our army, I think especially necessary and due, because they decidedly went out to play for everything; in a literal way they played their integrity, to the point that we have to regret even the death of the troops of some of our bodies. I again take the opportunity to express my condolences and my deepest condolences to the family for these terrible losses. Our police forces and our army have demonstrated, in this first phase of the pandemic's impact, a vocation to serve citizens and a firm commitment to our democracy, acting in a coordinated manner and showing that duty, responsibility and institutional loyalty is their guide at all times. Today they bring us to pass this decree that safeguards in many cases not to congest and oversaturate many of our municipalities in the management of these sanctions, which in this sense we see with good eyes, but I am convinced that, if this decree is adopted today, it will involve assuming a large, very high, processing – you, counselor, in your intervention spoke of the normality of about thirty_ thousand, 140,000, excessive, and this will also imply that the Generalitat has to strengthen itself with legal personnel, hiring lawyers to carry out these processings in time and in a timely manner. In the same way I say to you that we will be very observant also in how and how you will carry out this performance and who you are going to hire and what are going to be the recruitment bases to look for those people who should help us, which you did not do at another time. You tell me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Me, me. Some other time you didn't. And I remind you of the 2018 and 2019 public altercations. We all remember when the Council of Ministers of our nation came to Barcelona to meet and here there was neither management nor sanction that was managed by this department, too. Or in the same way as in the public disorders of October 2019, also without effect for the vast majority, neither management nor sanction. I recall that there is a report from the State Attorney's Office warning that there is no autonomous offence, that everything could be relegated to sanction by the Law on Citizen Security, you have warned it, and the applicable Criminal Code. Good. Just remember one date: the government decrees the state of alarm on 14 March 2020. We all remember that in the equator of that pandemic the cap of Mossos d'Esquadra, the commissari en cap, Eduard Sallent, had to issue urgently an instruction and an internal communiqué, on April 21, 2020– set, one month and fourteen days after this state of alarm was decreed –, instruction that was communicated to all the services and addressed to all the agents, indicating the decalogue of assessments that should be taken into account to include in each issue of each complaint, to reflect how and how they had to issue these complaints and on what basis, to leave behind a situation that left the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra at the feet of the horses and in a complicated situation until that time. I congratulate Eduard Sallent on taking the lead at that time, although we would have liked him to have been in parallel with the state of alarm. I will also tell you: while you are in your particular delirium, reaction, hoax, in many cases for the loss of skills in the face of a state of alarm, instead of taking responsibility. The responsibility of the Department of the Interior was to put itself at the side of what was right, of what it was about, of the coherence, of what we had to do at the time, and we even saw its president Torra talking about a partial confinement – everyone will remember – of that partial confinement that he claimed versus a state of alarm that spoke of different situations and serious situations. The officers who had to endure, and allow me to insist, endure..., managing and guaranteeing our security in a state of alarm left them without solutions in the face of an extreme situation, putting our police in a limited and critical situation; a police officer who saw himself those first weeks in many police areas without masks, or with masks, which is even worse, not approved. Different responsibilities would also have to be dealt with, how and how you manage when we are ensuring that the service of each police officer is carried out in a secure and appropriate manner. But also, let me tell you, quick test tests, or, what's worse, without any other kind of evidence that could detect positive, that then we realized that in different police areas they shared common space with agents that I had unfortunately had contact with infected, but the tests did not arrive, and then the problem was accentuated internally. Or with policemen who, unfortunately – I have already put it in value – had already died. Responsibility must be taken into account at all times and where that responsibility must be, when we talk about the actions of certain departments. These should be, I say, their priorities yesterday, today, tomorrow and always, because the responsibility to carry out the department of a government and to be a councillor of a government not only goes through a title or sitting where you are, it goes through the responsibility that entails carrying out it in a coherent, firm, capable way, reaching the goals, not staying half-way, and, as diem in català, posing pieces in the way; not going out, as we also saw him, every day in a press conference, which, sometimes, beyond reporting, created confusion for the citizen, which the citizenry hoped to clarify doubts, clarify how and how the movements should be managed from that state. We must guarantee the work of our police, that should be their obligation: to guarantee all the rights of citizens and to know how and when an offence is committed and when it is not. Look, while some take irresponsiblely trying to reinvent themselves, try to look like another country, another nation, or with skillful language changes, as you have us used to, all you do is forget the main thing. At that time, let me tell you, what I had to do was to keep our citizens properly informed of the authorized mobility assumptions that allowed displacement. And, look, I end by saying to you: you have a parliamentary mandate, a mandate where we have to draw up a contingency plan, which I hope you are already working on, and a contingency plan that incorporates and elaborates all those protocols of action so that, if, unfortunately, we find ourselves in a similar situation, we know how to solve the situation, the moment, from the minute one, and ensure that our troops...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.174.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.175.0	... as it cannot be otherwise, have your job, your function and your professionalism properly guaranteed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Carles Castillo, the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.177.0	Too late for everyone. Allow me to begin, therefore, by giving thanks, first of all, to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and to all the local and vigilant police – which we also have vigilance in this country – for the work they do, and especially, if they allow me, therefore, to these local polices that often endure security in Catalonia. Here are several themes, with Decree Ill 22/2020. First, there is a question of management and legislative technique, Counselor, and it is that you make a decree read on June 2 fixing the exercise of sanctioning power of those incompliments derived from the state of alarm, of the Counselor of Interior, and how they do not speak with anyone and are not able to negotiate before writing it, so they will not change the content of four decrees read more then, in Decree Law 26/2020, because they have not taken into account the Barcelona Charter nor, therefore, the idiosyncrasy and specific skills of the County City. Thus, this Decree Law 22/2020 was related to Article 9 of the Decree Law 26/2020, which modified the special situation of Barcelona, among other things. Ah, but let's leave one important thing – it's true that the councillor has already said this –: the penalties that the local police and the vigilantes of the towns and cities of Catalonia produce, as they have an impact on the municipalities, as is the division of the recaptancy between the Department of Interior, which will manage it, and the joints that impose the sanction. Because you have a compromise. He said it, it's true he said it. But I would like to remind you that there is a compromise already approved in Parliament, and it is that the motion for a resolution number 5, proposed for Junts for Catalonia, supporting the local world, in point 4.c, says: "To fully allocate to the municipality the resources generated for the collection of complaints lodged by local police for the failure of the decrees of the state of alarm that have been processed and charged for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. I mean, there's already a compromise written down in this sense, and he talks, at last, and I say, counselor, to go in full. And they have undertaken to respond in this sense, the councillor also said, to the municipal world represented by the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Catalan Federation of Municipalities. But for the time being, they have only rejected the silence by reply; we hope that they can then negotiate, in any case, a few percentages, Mr Councillor. Because, given the general situation, but especially the situation of our assemblies, which are the first line of trenches during this pandemic and confinement, this situation generates great fears. We know that they are in the end the gatherings... our gatherings are almost the poor parents of the Public Administration. We in this decree will abstain and propose in the 26/2020 that it is passed as a bill, so as to clearly establish these commitments for the allocation of the money that can be returned with the assemblies, and, in any case, that it is a compliment to that already approved for this Parliament, because the local police do a great job in the security of this country. And lastly, and finally, Counselor, I think there's reasonable doubt that there's enough management, let's just say, to deal with all the volume you've said about the fines. And also to end up telling them that we also believe that some of these sanctions should be reviewed in order to establish, in any case, the same criteria of rigour, typical of and interpretation of all of them, and that it is the same for all of Catalonia; there are a lot of them and some of them can actually involve economic problems for some Catalan families, and therefore we must be sure that there are no unfair situations, that there is no punishment in one pipeline that in others goes through another. Therefore, establish a series of equal criteria and the same interpretation of the regulations throughout Catalonia. All right, all right, Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.178.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Marc Parés, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.179.0	Thank you. Bona tarta, deputies and deputies; bona tarta, counselor. Well, this is a decree that, at first glance, may seem reasonable, right? ; in fact, a decree that initially had a single article through which it was established that the organ competent for the processing of sanctions derived from the regulations of the state of alarm..., should be charged, its management, in the interior councillor or to whom the delegated councillor. But, of course, it has already been explained..., and of the problems presented by this decree, a decree which was approved on June 2nd and which had to be amended at the end of the 20th, with Decree 26/2020, where it is added..., to this one article two more are added: one to recognize the uniqueness of the city of Barcelona and the other to say, therefore, that the joints maintain their competences, but in fact they cannot exercise this sanctioning power. And you don't say anything about what's going on with the charge for these sanctions, even though the counselor has warned us, right? He has explained to us that he is in negotiation process to see, which ends up receiving these sanctions, as it ends up having an impact on the municipality. One thing our group is worried about. Clearly, reading a little of the statement of reasons for this decree, there are some statements that, man, make us think of a little too in the report we have seen on behalf of this government and, especially, on behalf of its spokesman, the Councillor of the Interior, on many pressing wheels during the management of the emergency, and what we have come to find in this decree. And I'll mention, for example, at a time or in a specific phrase of the motius presentation on which you literally say, "Stop centralizing the processing and imposition of sanctions in a single organ, which is the Councillor of the Interior. And they are oblivious to the local world, even to quote it in the motius exposition, I believe, and in the very articulation of this decree, even though it is later corrected, effectively. But, of course, fix it, right? That's to say, when you do, then you do come to centralize and forget about the local world. I believe that this is a reflection that needs to be taken into account, because everything that you do not stop repeating day after day to the Government of the State, gives me the feeling that this Government of the Generality is doing exactly the same with the local world, in which it is acting without consulting, imposing decisions and, in any case, then trying to add some corrections, which we celebrate that they are talking with the local world to reach an agreement. But in any case, this raises doubts about this one over this decree. A decree that you also explained to us that it should be used, right? , to sanction two legal instruments, say, two laws. One of these... one is public safety legislation, and the other is the Citizens' Security Act, which is, like, the bite law. And here we also worry about the application of this legislation, of a law that we, like you, believe should be repealed, so as we translate it into concrete sanctions in the wake of the state of alarm. And we're worried – in fact, the warning of the Greuges Synod on your day, right? – the sanctions, the large name or the large amount of sanctions that have been applied during the management of this pandemic. And in this sense, therefore, we do not have any certainty that it has been done with sufficient proportionality. And that's a matter we're worried about. All folded, what do we want to say, huh? Counselor..., that is to say, we understand that this decree can be reasonable, we understand that it must be dealt with; now, the doubts that generate us from the point of view especially of the relationship with the local world and of the lack of concreteness of the punishable facts, we believe... Moreover, a decree that also says that up until later, is to say, June 2, when we have been alarmed since March 14th, then modified on the 26th. So, we're processing a decree on the application of sanctions in the state of alarm when we're no longer in state of alarm, and we hope we don't have to be back, right? But, in any case, for the different reasons that he was commenting on, our group will also abstain in this decree that we are debating today and also calling for processing as a bill of law, basically because we understand that a matter such as the state of alarm..., which we certainly share with you, therefore, is not well regulated and that the state mark that we currently have is not a proper_mark for managing a pandemic from a perspective of re-centralisation and co-decision or coordinated decisions. Therefore, we share that we do not have the appropriate state and legal framework, because we are neither in a federal state nor in a state that recognizes plurinationality, which, indeed, should be. But, said that, we do believe that the regulation of how we sanction in emergency situations as we have experienced during these months and that we can live again in the future, so it requires a parliamentary debate, it also requires incorporating the perspective of the local world, which we do not think is now well incorporated – if you recognize Barcelona's singularity well, what happens to the rest of the nine hundred and fall municipalities of the country? Therefore, we do believe that there is a parliamentary debate that follows the legislative power that ends, so, regulating how this sanction procedure is produced in situations such as the state of alarm that we hardly have to suffer in this country. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.181.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, councillor. After the biggest pile of hair in history, the biggest audience in the history of the Squadron Mosses, after this chamber approves of urging the government to suspend the six agents involved in the assault on the Bages and that you left saying it's the same as the Parliament approves, because you won't do it, so, look, as little competition is central in the Department of Interior, for us, better. And, therefore, we will vote against this decree. Look, if you look at it, the Ciutadans spokesman congratulated the Director General, Eduard Sallent, and he doesn't alienate me, because in security policies the truth is that you're closer to what you've never been able to think of. And why the felicitation? So why did the Director General make an instruction saying that, even though there was no disobedience, so that he fined people for disobedience, because, of course, the royal decree did not accompany any type of sanctioning regime. This is a violation of people's rights, directly. This is against all the principles of the right. It is more, if the state of alarm, if the royal decree of state of alarm does not have a sanctioning rule, therefore, what cannot be done is to see that the generic order or the generic prohibition of not leaving the house is understood as a concrete order and that this, the failure of this concrete order, can, therefore, cause disobedience. No, no! I mean, the agent has to ask the person, and that person has to say, "Look, I don't want to fill in with what you're asking me for. And it is at that moment that disobedience can be applied. But you cannot apply disobedience arbitrarily, which is what you are doing. It's that they've done an instruction, that we've all read it, because it's stuck to the press, telling the agents to skip all the principles of the right to fine the people. The truth is, we can't explain it to you in any case. In fact, Amnesty International has denounced the arbitrariness of security forces – not the CUP, Amnesty International – in the application of the law bites. Arbitrary, why? So why is it primarily a coercive approach without clear performance criteria and, especially, in dealing with vulnerable people. In fact, SOS Racisme, in the state of alarm period, in the middle of phase 1 of the confinement, makes a campaign that is said "Stop stopping me". Why? So because there's a scandalous rise in racist motius identifications. And then, then, we find ourselves with an institutional and police racism that is structural and that makes situations like those of Bages happen. In fact, I asked him when you appeared during the state of alarm: "How many sanctions have you imposed? "No, cap; the local police and urban guards have only raised acts. You said the opposite yesterday, I suppose you were wrong. All they've done is raise acts, all right? After raising these acts, an administrative procedure must be initiated. This administered procedure will do the Interior Department. He told me, in that appearance, that I would get the number of acts that had raised the urban guard, the local police and the squadron's mosses and based on five facts. We're still waiting for this information. And now... besides, he told me no, that the law didn't mean to apply it, that they would do it on the basis of the Law of Public Salvation. But now, not now; now they will do it on the basis of the two laws and the entire Department of Interior will do it. So, look, we'd rather you do the Health Department, with whom we can certainly have a lot of differences, a lot of differences, but it's certainly not as scandalous as what's going on with the Interior Department. And, Counselor, with all due respect, but let's ask again for your resignation; let's ask again the president of this government to do the favor of making a decision respecting how you develop your functions in the Interior Department, because every time it is harder the situation of violation of social, civil and political rights that has occurred in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. That's the word of Congresswoman Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.183.0	President, councillor, deputies, the limitation of movement to the citizenry that led to the declaration of the state of alarm was a very important loss of individual rights and freedoms, right? , for the citizenry, in favor, in the end, of the salvation of all, of the society's collection. If the government of Sanchez has been erratic, erratic and contradictory with the setting of these limits of the personal mobility of the citizenry, you, Mr. Counsellor, have not been clearer. Far from clarifying concepts, far from giving security to the citizenry, certain within an unstable framework such as the coronavirus pandemic, has yet to add more, it has yet to set, at last, contradictory standards. Go on, they've run out of town, even with the children's walks and the exit, the first exit to the children's streets. In general terms, you have made the same mistakes that you criticize the government of Sanchez, much to say no. In the end, he left the tidal city and the police units somewhat abandoned, and also with some confusion as to how to act before this exceptional situation as was the state of alarm and the limitation of the individual movements of the city. He did not have a responsible or exemplary attitude. We think it's good that these two clear-cut decrees that are to deal with the punishments of those citizens who didn't respect the limits..., citizens that their majority, as well as the police and the different police bodies that were responsible for vetting that isn't crossing these limits, in general, was exemplary. But it is true that there are 140,000 sanctions, and there are some that will surely be reviewed, but others that will have to be imposed. And it's good to clarify who has to deal with these sanctions, it's opportune, it's consistent, and we understand that I'm carrying a decree to pass. I said, "One. I said "one because he presented two, with twenty days of difference, because suddenly he was told that the first one was a Nyap. They were told, suddenly, with twenty days of difference, that in Catalonia, obviously, there were..., the municipalities had local police. They forgot about these questions, and you today... what do you want me to say? The subtlety isn't her fort, huh? Next, tell us that Decree 26 is complementary to Decree 22 when it literally repeats, literally, Decree 26, in its Article 9, we say that it amends the only article of Decree 22 is to lie to us, the subtlety is not its fort: it amends the only article of Decree 22 of 20. You let yourself be carried away by the rain, a feature that I believe has practically marked the entire pandemic management by the Government of the Generality, and a certain radiance, too, right? Very little reflection. And it's okay... or else, we understand that correcting – correcting – is better than not denying the evidence of error, but don't deceive us, don't deceive us by using subtle things that don't respond to reality. And it seems that you, as you criticise so much of the state's re-nationalizing expert, you with the first decree have been allowed to take over this re-nationalizing expert, because the municipalities did not take them into account and the local police completely ignored them. And on the day of the roll, I think they're going to let it take away from "burning the bad and welcoming the new and decided to correct a mistake to Decree 26 that was a bottle. Finally, we understand that it is necessary to clarify who is to deal with these sanctions, and therefore we will not oppose it, but we do ask them, please, for a little more foresight and rigour at the time of making use of an instrument that is urgent, that is a decree law like those that are being approved here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.185.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. MPs, MPs, councillors, good afternoon to everyone. In the first place, I would like to show all the support or scalp and all the souls for the veins and veins of the region of Segria that are painted, that are experiencing complex and difficult moments with the increase of Covid's cases in the region and with the confinement of the same region. From here also send all the strength to all the health professionals who are working to manage the situation, and also to all the mayors who are in front of all the municipalities addressing and managing the difficult and complex situation that they are patenting, and we hope with the desire that we can control this increase and that we can return to normality as soon as possible. Already entering the debate on the issue of the Decree Law 22/2020 that we are now submitting to the debate and vote of validation, the department today doors us, the Department of Interior today brings us here the validation of this Decree Law 22/2020, of June 2, for which the competent bodies are determined to process sanctions for breaches of the regulations of the state of alarm denounced for the different police units. This decree consists of a single point and claim to have the possibility to enforce the interposed penalties for the failure to comply with Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, and that this decree Law 22 is amended, extended by Decree Law 26/2020, which will be further discussed. According to the state of alarm of the Spanish Government, it was clear that those who failed to complete the imposed measures could be denounced for the different police units in Catalonia according to health legislation, civil protection and citizen security. Of course, there have been cases of people who have not complied with the rules and recommendations, but we also warn that many of the people who saw us as some of the imposed sanctions did not stand up for themselves. Now, from the department, it was intended to centralize the processing and the imposition of these sanctions in a single organ, in this case, in the Councillor of the Interior, for reasons of effectiveness and from here will validate the cases in order to exaggerate if the sanctions have been made by a correct procedure, that is, if they are correctly sanctioned actions. If that's not the case, from the Republican Left, we don't think they should get away with it, which aren't properly imposed. In short, it is clear that the situation is complex and that for the benefit of the collectivity the public authorities must be able to sanction if they violate the obligations that we have all accepted to undermine the health effects of the pandemic that still unfortunately suffer. And yes, it seems to us logical and necessary that the sanctions imposed and covered can also be entered, the corresponding parts, at different joints. In fact, right now we have a complex situation in Segria and we need to prevent these rebounds and cases from being controlled and increased in the region or spreading to the rest of the country. It is necessary to do everything possible to protect the most vulnerable and to avoid the collapse of the health system. Today the Procicate has approved the mandatory use of masks from the country, and to ensure that everyone completes it, as a measure to stop the increase in infection and protect the entire population. Now, we also ask and demand the Government and the Department of Interior to review all the sanctions that have been imposed by the agents of Mosso and the different local polices, so as to detect, detect and avoid those sanctions of situations that may have been made an abuse or an erroneous interpretation in the application of the sanction. In fact, Amnesty International itself has made a report on the abuse of human rights that ended during the state of alarm. As I said earlier, we all know examples of cases and situations of persons who have been arbitrarily sanctioned by over-interpretations of the law on the part of the police. We are familiar with situations or cases where there has been unequal application in some of the municipalities or parts of the territory, with different application criteria, using the same legal basis. And that's not fair. And what we want is a model of democratic and just security. I am talking, for example, of cases such as a single-parent mother who went to launch the brush with her daughter and who was punished. Or even cases such as, in some municipalities, a person was sanctioned to ride a bicycle for a local police officer and was interpreted to be a sport, when that moment could not be sports, and the same situation in a municipality was not sanctioned. Or examples as members of a food bank in Trinitat, in the Trinitat bar, or a group of keepers in Barcelona who were serving food for the city and were sanctioned for urban guarding. This can't be sanctioned. Calen safety criteria, but also calen human criteria. The state of alarm cannot be a whitewash to undermine or question the rights of the citizenry. The line between security, public health and rights and freedoms is obviously very thin, that context is a global pandemic, but it can only be used as a pretext to force the rights of the citizenry, because, if not, the sanctioning character that is sometimes necessary loses legitimacy, credibility and efficiency, and by extension, also the police bodies of the country. Pandemic safety cannot have a white card. We've got to be curious about who's outnumbering us and putting us all at risk. Obviously, who does not have the right behavior and who skips the rules, he must be able to sanction it, yes, but even here and there; everything else does not protect us, making us more vulnerable. Therefore, we believe that before we process all the sanctions imposed during the state of alarm, I can review them because there are no such hardships and that it is indeed a sanction for those people or businesses that have actually failed to complete the measures and restrictions imposed. And, finally, I can't finish this intervention without asking again that it is necessary and urgent to repeal Law 4/2015, called "the law bites; a law that has been repeatedly used in a coercive way, where security forces have abused their interpretation and led to a violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Perhaps it is up to him to do so to the "most progressive government of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, has the word Elena Fort, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.187.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, mirin, I didn't have a written one, but I'll do a previa, counselor. I, unlike most of the groups that preceded me, will try to talk about the decree and the content of the decree and stop talking about many other things that they certainly don't touch now. It's as simple as that. On March 14, the Government of Spain decreed the state of alarm at the territory of the Spanish State through the Royal Decree 463/2020, the content of which provided for many actions to prevent and act against the effects of the pandemic; certainly the most relevant of which was the limitation of the freedom of movement of persons, on condition and with exception, and which therefore allowed for the ordering of house confinement. This royal decree included the prediction of a sanctioning regime in its article 20, a rule which was to say that it was limited to generically predicting the very existence of the sanctioning regime as a response to incompletion or resistance to orders of competent authorities during the state of alarm, and to refer to Law 4/1981, of June 1, of the states of alarm, exception and place. This law, warrior and ancient, in its article number 10 simply foresees that sanctions will be imposed according to what you set the laws. At the same time, Decree 463, in Article 6, provided that each administration would maintain the powers attached to it by the legislation in force in the ordinary management of its services. Therefore, we have an amalgamation of standards and references to standards that did not have a very clear content and that meant that in the end, the incompliments that could be denounced to our country for the different security features that were operating in Catalonia were to be processed and resolved by different organs, so that they would respond to the concurrence of different sectoral legislations, such as health care, civil protection or citizen security. Certainly, the legal analysis of this sanctioning standard that establishes the State – I remember, it establishes the State, not the Generality – during the state of alarm can give place to many legal debates, which I think today is not the time to make them, which, in any case, will already be done, and they will already write books and make theses about it. But what remains clear – and I repeat it, and I want to make it very clear that it is about the situation and the regulations, the norm, which the Spanish State creates in its decree 463 – is that this regulation clearly showed a lack of legal certainty for the city, of minimal effectiveness and of a difficulty in guaranteeing the rights of citizens subject to a sanctioning procedure. And that's it, huh? I remember: Decree 463. We cannot forget that the sanctioning procedure, whatever the sanctioning procedure, is based on the strictest principles of public law, which aim to guarantee the right of defence of citizens; principles which are analogous to criminal law, such as that of typical law or non bis in the same way – despite the fact that I do not want to make mass Latinisms, which would be that it cannot be punished twice for the same fact. Therefore, before this situation it was obvious, and necessary, and it became absolutely necessary, to place a little order and centralize this processing and resolution of sanctions, and, if necessary, the imposition in the cases to be punished, in a single administered organ that allows this guarantee to have an equal interpretation and application of the principles. And the government has considered that this sole organ should be the Interior Department, in the person of the councilor, because it is already the one who usually processes the procedures in the matter of citizen security and civil protection, and taking into account that, for what it does in the matter of citizen security, this is now an indelible competition. And this is the only content and purpose of Decree 22/2020, which is now subject to validation. So I understand there's nothing else to say. So, that's talking about the contents. We've already exposed the background and its finality, and we need to talk a little bit about the shape. Here comes a little commenter Parés, when he announced that he wanted to ask for his processing as a regular project. The decision taken is urgent, as many have had to be adopted during this pandemic, and no one here has done anything that is quite basic and that can not be forgotten, and that, perhaps, I hope you will do a little rethinking this proposal. It is inconceivable, in the matter of a sanctioning procedure, that the terms of processing of an ordinary law can be assumed; that it is necessary to process and resolve the sanctioning procedures, which does not mean imposing sanctions, because not necessarily, but to process them and resolve them. Surely, in many cases no sanctions will be imposed. But let us not forget that these sanctioning procedures are subject to the terms of limitation and expiration. So, if they process it as an ordinary law, and we don't consider it as urgent, so all these possible sanctions, or not sanctions, or the same record that the city has and is in a situation that doesn't know what's going to happen to it, it doesn't make sense. But not just that. I believe that it is especially important that these procedures become an effective, proportionate and prudent instrument – always, because it must be – in order to fight the Covid-19, in a way that society is aware of the need for social co-responsibility, which implies the compliment of these standards, and to avoid the conducts – which may be few but few that exist – that can endanger public health, the general good to guarantee and safeguard in a situation of pandemic. Therefore, I think it is clear that it cannot be dealt with as an ordinary regulation. At least the first decree, because we remember that the 26 doesn't have any meaning if it doesn't approve the 22. Therefore, the 22nd must be approved and cannot be submissive to terms that would make its own content insurmountable. That is why the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia will vote in favour of the validation of this decree, also from 26/2020. And, above all – and I suppose that by personal knowledge and personal knowledge – all my respect and professional admiration for the Internal Department's Legal Servants, who have no doubt that they apply the principles of the sanctioning law as it should be, with all the prudence of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on the validation of this decree will end the 13th item of the order of the day, together with the remaining votes of this late. [[Decrees of 21/2020, 25/2020 and 26/2020 on urgent and extraordinary measures]] [[203-00045/12, 203-00050/12 and 203-00051/12]] We move on to the new item on the agenda, which is the debate on the validation of Decree 21/2020, of 2 June, of urgent economic, cultural and social measures. According to the Board of Spokesmen, the record is going to make a joint debate of points 10 and 11 of the order of the day. Point 11... [[Seeing the background and pause.]] Excuse me. The debate on this point, which is the new point, will be combined with points 10 and 11 of the order of the day. Point 10 is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 25/2020, of 16 June, of extraordinary measures in social and fiscal and administrative matters, and point 11 is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 26/2020, of 23 June, of extraordinary measures in health and administrative matters. Therefore, we shall proceed now, in accordance with the decision of the Board of Spokesmen, to make the joint debate of items 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda, relating to the validation of three decrees of the Law. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which the three decrees have been issued. It has the word, for that, in the first place, the vice president, Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillor, Members and Members, this morning we presented another decree to the law, because, since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government of Catalonia has been approving, at different times, various decrees to carry out measures in many areas and sectors. Covid-19 has caused an exceptional situation that has forced us to take action in many areas. It also provides for regulatory changes, with law-making standards, in order to give coverage to all the activities that the Government of Catalonia has been obliged to carry out in order to contain not only the health field, and the sphere of social and residential impact, but also the impacts on the economic and other spheres of our country's social life. This late, I bring to the confirmation of the chamber a package of three decrees of law containing a follow-up of measures to continue fighting the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, as the decree of law that the Councillor of Interior has just presented before this intervention. This morning, as I said, we have also been debating another law on the impact of the coronavirus on one of the most punished economic sectors, which is the tourism sector, and I have had the opportunity to share with you the measures that have taken and that I can take to help the sector see the future with optimism. But this is not the only sector. This morning's reference is made to the fact that the sectors that will probably take longer to have a complete recovery will be those that, for their natural needs, require the agglomeration of people in space, that need mobility and that are strongly linked to the realm of the oci, to the realm of culture, to the realm of restoration or inn. And in the cultural sector we have an important challenge; a sector in which good part of its workers, therefore, are in a situation of precariousness too, therefore, that this sector still had not recovered from the impacts of the economic crisis of the year 2008-2013. And, therefore, in the field of culture we know that reactivation, if we do not do anything, will not be easy or quick. And that's why the decree that I present today and that the Government approved incorporates a follow-up of support measures in the field of culture, with economic aid for a value of 5_million euros for people and professionals in the cultural field economically affected by the state of alarm, that during all – during all – this time of state of alarm they have not been able to act in theaters, they have not been able to act in scenes, they have not been able to share their creations, they have not been able to expose their works. And in this sense, the objective of the decree is precisely to deal with this situation of vulnerability of cultural professionals who believe in a drastic and involuntary reduction of economic inputs as a consequence of the health crisis of Covid-19, which, as I said, has put an end to all the activities of theatres, circuses, concerts and dance. It is expected that this help, which is already on the move and which we have been applying, will reach up to six thousand people who would benefit. The import of aid will be the equivalent of Catalonia's sufficiency income indicator for each day of inactivity between March 13 and May 6, 2020, which is the time, therefore, when we carry out this measure, which is 18,97_euros/day. This day, May 6th, was the day when the Government of the State facilitated access to the services for these collectivities, but before they had any support, and that is why we, the Government of Catalonia, were able to go further there and to make no one stand back. Therefore, we are talking about a maximum aid import of 1,024 euros with 38 cents. Therefore, it is an amount that can obviously work together, and it can help all those professionals of the culture who, as I said, have not been able to work, who also have a contractual rule, or a rule of activity, or a rule of work, so that is already very different from what the workers are on their own, let us say to ourselves, that they work in more orderly tasks, right? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And, therefore, precisely, we believe that the configuration of this aid was precisely aimed at covering this part of the cultural sector, which are its professionals, who may be paying a double price because of the pandemia of the coronavirus. Also this decree law, the first of them, on 21/2020, takes a whole series of measures aimed at strengthening the field of education in law, another field that is an area that..., it indicates to us oci, but education indicates precisely one of the great contributions to the field of education in law in our country. In this sense, aid amounting to €6 million was approved for this sector, for entities and enterprises organizing summer activities, including scholarships to ensure access for children from families in a situation of vulnerability or economic difficulties for the crisis in Covid-19. Specifically, this decree establishes a measure to help families to make education activities more economically accessible in the summer of 2020. An extraordinary economic aid is provided for non-working entities and educational enterprises in the organisation and functioning of activities in this area. And finally, there is a measure for the hiring of young people in practices for entities in the education sector; a sector that has had to face major costs to the summer couple, the colonies, the activities directed to children, adolescents and young people of our country, because they can also enjoy this study with as much daily life as possible, and to make it possible to reach everyone, so obviously the entities face major costs. We have altered, for health reasons, what is the normal rule of activities. And, therefore, it is important that there may be these measures that help the entities and businesses that are dedicated to adapting. And in this context, as I said, as a starting point, that during all these months, and as a result of this health crisis, there has been a collision of important rights. For one band... – and that's the balance that we have to manage and that we have to be able to respond to –, for one band we have worked to protect the citizenship of the spread of a virus that is causing thousands of deaths from the world, and for another, we have to work to ensure in the best possible way the full personal, emotional and physical development of all people and especially of infants, adolescents and young people. Some of the most damaging rights have been the right to education and the right to the rights of our infants and young people. Therefore, it is essential to put into operation, whenever the health circumstances accompany it, the participation of infants, adolescents and young people in activities during the summer months, couples, colonies, camps, roads, work camps, sports camps, which are essential for their vital development. In this response to the health crisis we believe – and from the Government of Catalonia we are completely compromised – that we cannot forget about infants, adolescents and young people. During the months they have seen their daily lives altered, day by day, with all the difficulties that it creates trying to maintain social space through digital technology. We've all seen it, or we've seen it at home or we know it, so that's why they've explained it to us or why we've seen it in the communication media, as many students in our country were expecting the time of the week, during the confinement stage, when they can connect to see, by whatever means of videoconferencing, their classmates, who since March 13 couldn't see, could not share the school with them. These areas of sociability, such as school as well, in which one does not feel like being a citizen, living in society, but also all out-of-school activities, are basic for the emotional well-being and personal growth of children, adolescents and young people in our country. For this reason, now that normality has not opened up, not without difficulties, and we see, therefore, in the different situations that we have to manage within Catalan geography, it is necessary to give the protagonist to children and adolescents who have not had it. For this reason, we must ensure that all children, all young people in Catalonia, are enjoying, can enjoy, educational activities, that can enjoy, again, nature, open spaces, water, the area, games and activities shared with friends and companies; that they recover spaces of sociability and personal growth, that they learn as well – we learn all the folds – the routines of this new reality in which we learn to live with a virus that we have not yet defeated. And they also have an emotional follow-up, an emotional follow-up to hear everything that's going on, everything that's happened to them, and especially those who have experienced or are experiencing very complex situations in their family environment. We also carry to validation the Decree Law 25/2020, approved for the government on June 16, which contained extraordinary measures in social, fiscal and administrative matters, and which complement other decrees that the government has approved previously also to deal with the effects of the pandemic. Let's start with measures in the social sphere. This decree includes a package of worker support measures – and I say, 'workers, because they are basically women' – of cures and llar, with an aid line of €1.4 million to precisely encourage regularisation of their work, formalisation of work, to end the informal economy of cure workers who find themselves in an irregular situation. Persons or self-employed entities who offer a contract to work in the field of education and training, full-time, and with remuneration equal to or greater than the minimum inter-professional wage, may, and are not, benefit. It is one of the most precarious sectors, this week we have not talked about, in the monographic plenary on residences, and, therefore, we can begin to take measures, and this is a first measure, brave, at a very complicated time, in which the workers of the school and workers in the field of home care many times, in order that they were working without contract, many of them were found overnight without entrances, and this measure was precisely to remedy this situation. And that's why we've already put him in the loop. This decree also provides for the allocation of 200,000_euros for the promotion of self-employment and cooperative work in order to gain access to the legislation, in the precise area of migrants as well: 300,000_euros for the legal support and dissemination of the social legislation as a means of contracting people who are currently in an irregular situation and 300,000_euros more in helping the occupational training of workers in the care that allows them to access these contract offers and their regularization. These are measures that we have never done before the Government of Catalonia, intended for these citizens and those citizens who have this profile so concrete, but it is a reality with which we live day by day, that it is unfair and that we need to change. For another band, the law decree also provides for another line of support focused on the educational support of migrant families, concretely 1.25_million euros to the provision of first-aid services in face-to-face and non-face formats, and deu_million euros to the provision of online literacy courses. And here the country's boarding services, the different territorial services of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Family, but also the gatherings, have done everything in their power to continue with these activities of giving to know, of gathering of people migrated to our country. And they've made connections and formations through WhatsApp, until they do it through online videoconferencing, doing it with all the effort. I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can accompany you. These measures, as I said, take them because the situation is especially urgent and relevant in the area of migration and citizenship policies, because the impact of the economic and social crisis of the coronavirus is not the same for everyone, and is particularly cruelly punishing foreign people, since the loss of jobs, and, as I say, the impact of ERTOs, has a special impact on intensive economic sectors in the workforce, which occupy many migrant people. A situation that is much harder for people who are irregularly migrating, citizens and citizens of this country who are in a situation of administrative irregularity for an unjust foreign law and who need to change, as we have demanded from the Government of Catalonia, because the end of economic activities during the confinement was also produced in the realm of the irregular economy, of the informal economy, and it brought a lot of people to a situation that cannot be brought out without help, it cannot come out without fraternity from the rest of the citizenry by mediating these aids, without an emergency social intervention. The urgency that requires the attention of all these needs, because we have it here, justifies the elaboration of a decree that gives coverage to the deployment of programs and services needed to attend to them urgently. As we see, there are multiple needs, there are multiple emergencies of many of our veins and veins. The health crisis is compounded by the social and economic crisis that is bringing a lot of people to the limit, to the limits, to the sectors most affected by the pandemic and to the most vulnerable groups in our society. The public administrations, and here I also include the assemblies, because they have made a big pocket, they are making hands and hands to deal with all these emergencies, knowing that the resources we have are limited, but aware that now we need more than ever the public sector, we need more than ever the administrations that make aixogluc, that we are pushing all the needs, all the city, because, if not, the exit from this crisis will be more convenient and will be able to take city and city situations that we cannot accept from a human point of view, or from our country model. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on Catalonia has also called for an extra effort on our country's public health system. And, we have said and repeated, the involvement of the professionals and entities of the system has been exemplary, and at the same time it has been complemented by a mobilization of all the resources available at the company's joint venture, in particular with the addition to the assistance response of private health centres and establishments and work accidents, organized by the health authority. We've put all the resources in the service of the fight against the Covid19 and we're putting all the resources in the service of the fight against the Covid-19, at these times too, in coordination with the system's conjunction. If resources are available to our country, before an emergency situation, it is necessary to take them with public direction, with public coordination, and put them at the service of the welfare of the citizens' group. Decree 26/2020, the latest that I bring to validation, approved the 23rd of June, provides for the preservation of those tools that we were endowed with during the state of alarm, those management tools that we were endowed with during the state of alarm and that were linked to the end of the state of alarm, to its period of validity, therefore, and that have proved effective in dealing collectively with the repts derived from the pandemic, ensuring that they continue, that they continue while the emergency situation decreed for the Process is adopted. These normative measures that I have to validate must be interpreted in this context. The clinical evidence points out that, as we already see in the case of Segria, we are ahead of possible outbreaks of the disease, and, therefore, the experience accumulated at the length of the past months demonstrates the social interest, the citizen's need to keep these channels open in order to facilitate immediate access to the healthcare authority in order to increase the capacity of the Comprehensive Health System of Public Use of Catalonia. This public coordination can be guaranteed precisely for a moment of need, as we are now having, for example, the Segria, that there is a command to be able to place all resources in the service of the fight against the pandemic, in this case, therefore with a concrete focus. We have passed the state of alarm, we have gone further there, but some needy are kept, and, therefore, it is necessary to extend further beyond the state of alarm while there is the risk, while there is the danger there must be measures and solutions. How do we get this done? So, according to the needs of Catalonia's public health system, we empower the Català de la Salut Service to provide private health centres and facilities, clinical laboratories and work accidents to provide a greater capacity for immediate assistance in the event that we require them anywhere. This qualification involves the functional, transitory and partial integration of the centres and establishments that it gave in the private sphere to the integral health system of Catalonia, and, therefore, they will have to carry out the tasks that since the Health Department, through the Catalan Health Service, is dictated. The reality shows us that the Government of Catalonia has acted with anticipation with the approval of this Decree Law 26/2020. And we have acted with anticipation because if today, before some of the buds that are occurring in the territory, we are making available, precisely, and we are putting under the command of the Catalan Health Service, which are establishments of private character, of private sanitation, today we can answer better. And, therefore, it was necessary to be prepared, also from the legal, normative, to give it coverage. We did it on June 23rd, and this allows us to have more tools in a very difficult, very difficult context today. We have managed among all to control the expansion of the pandemic, to reduce the hard cases, entered the ICU, and also what was the weekly evolution of people who, unfortunately, had died, had passed through because of the coronavirus. Until we have the vaccine, we cannot relax our families or businesses, nor can the public administrations, which we must be at the forefront of, we must do everything possible to protect the salvation of citizens and citizens, but we must also do everything in our hands to guarantee a quality of life for everyone. And, in this sense, it is also necessary to reactivate all the economic sectors and to attend to the most vulnerable collectivities, because, as I said, the coronavirus, the Covid-19 has not affected everyone equally, and the most vulnerable, the weakest, the ones that are patenting the inequalities that they already suffer before the coronavirus is one of the collectivities, they are part of our fellow citizens who are also patenting in a more intense way the economic and social consequences of the coronavirus. So, as it is everyone's responsibility, but basically also the Government of the Generality, and we never escape, so we also ask to have these tools, and, therefore, the validation of these decrees. Many thanks, Mr President, Councillor, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.190.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, let us move on to the positioning of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.191.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members, good afternoon to all. First of all, as a member of the Committee on Culture, I am going to dedicate this speech in Spanish to you expressly, as a Councillor, as a Councillor for Culture, or rather as a member of the inculturation of one of the official languages of this autonomous community, which is Spanish. [[applause]] and that belongs to a great country like Spain. Well, today we are presented with three decrees on urgent economic, fiscal, administrative, but also cultural, social and health measures. In total, sixty-seven articles, eight additional provisions, four transitional provisions, one derogation and six final provisions. The same subsequent decree modifies some article from another precedent and uses it to modify or delete articles from previous laws. We took advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid and made several modifications that should not be the subject of any decree. It is a legal measure, of course, and we are pleased to read that under article 67.6.a of the Statute they are aware that these decrees are promulgated on behalf of the king by the president of the Generalitat. And here Mr. Torra has exhibited himself by enacting dozens of decrees laws in this pandemic time under this premise. But this abuse in its use, both by this government and by the central government, highlights, even more if it can, its absolute inoperation, incompetence and neglect over the last decade at the head of the fate of 7_million_and_half Catalans. Because it is an established measure for cases of urgency and extreme need, as is the case with this pandemic of Covid-19, but it would not have been necessary to reach this point if, during the last ten years lost in politics in Catalonia, all these economic, health and social measures and actions had been taken and managed and, of course, solved. They have had enough time to redeem the massive cuts initiated by Mr.Artur Mas over a decade ago, but, however, far from cutting them, they have remained in force by the successive governments of Junts pel Yes, now Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra. Now, these cuts pass the bill, and have been particularly latent in an overflowing health care, without material or human means; in residences without sufficient staff and without care measures – and let us not speak, better, of dependence –; in education, with continuous bandages and without technological means available to all students in order to follow a chaotic quarter; in childhood, with laws of protection for minors kept in a drawer for years; in the cultural sector, always forgotten. And I am not talking, of course, about the Department of Culture, because here the issue of toe, of competing subsidies and of contract splitting is on the agenda. I am talking about companies and workers in the sector, completely abandoned to their fate and now, after the pandemic, one of the sectors that will be recovering more quickly. The losses that the department itself calculates are estimated at about 950_million_de_euros, and in this decree they present us with a guarantee to the Catalan Institute of Finance to grant loans, that is, indebtedness, worth 22_million_de_euros, and little more than 5_million_de_euros for basic supplies that, as always, are cured in health, adding the collection of « subject to budget availability. These are the mathematics of this government. (Founding voice) Faced with a financial need of 950_million_de_euros, we offer a indebtedness of 22. And we're on. Are we talking about tourism or automobile? The government « Puemita de Colau has taken charge of it and destroyed it in Barcelona, in connivance with the PSC, in the City of Barcelona where it governs. And you, Esquerra, agreeing with Podemos the budgets. And what about the Hard Rock in Tarragona, which has been stuck in a drawer for eight years. We will also have to see how it is carried out by royal decree, urgently, in order not to lose it, because its inoperation puts at risk a vital business development for the province of Tarragona. Do you realize the great missed opportunities such as the European Medicines Agency, the Tesla base, the more than five thousand companies that have left Catalonia for other autonomous communities? Are you aware of the economic, social, and labor magnitude of these losses that you have caused with your separatist delusions? At a current time, and in an autonomous community that has a debt of almost 80,000_million_of_euro. And, indeed, we could not foresee a pandemic, but good economic management based on the containment of disorbited public spending, full of high offices, fingers, friends and various chiringuitos, with a massive use of public money. That public money you're wasting like there's no tomorrow. That money that increases every certain time his wages, that they are in charge of armoring also by royal decree, in the midst of the pandemic. See, if not, Decree 11/2020. These are really their priorities, to shield themselves by decree their retirement, their privileges, while Catalan society will have to deal economically with a crisis of unusual dimensions, which will take thousands of jobs, businesses and, unfortunately also, the health of many of us. We warned them actively and passively that the recently approved budgets were useless, unserviceable, born dead. We have tabled more than 1,200 amendments, we have reached out to them to try to help and manage the Catalonia we all want better. But no, you, Esquerra, along with Podemos, with permission of your conscience and morality, as a party of the left led you to increase in full pandemic and with thousands of dead a 17_per_cent of the inheritance tax and donations, eliminating bonuses and deductions that affect, for example, children when they inherit the housing that with so much effort their parents, the great majority working middle class, leave as legacy to their descendants. And as you replied to me, Mr Aragonés, to my parliamentary question on this, number 7613/12, they do so to reduce in part and gradually the perpetuation of wealth in a few people. Because the 80_per_cent of the children who inherit is above all a house of less than 150,000_euros. Here I understand, Mr Aragonés, that you refer mainly to the value of housing in Barcelona, right? It intends to raise some 500_million_euros with all the climbs. We, Ciutadans, proposed a savings of 900_million_of_euro without the need to raise taxes. But that does, reducing your bulky modus vivendi. And I confess that I hoped that this charge of conscience would lead them to pass a new decree that would allow the elimination of this tax on corporations and donations. It doesn't come from one more or one less. They would have to approach from time to time a bank branch or a notary, to hear the bitter cry of thousands of families who must renounce the small or medium inheritance that their parents, workers, have left him, but who thanks to politicians like you have no money to face such double and triple taxation tax, having to leave in the hands of the State all the effort and sacrifice of their parents. I suppose this will allow them to sleep peacefully at night. And I'm telling you about your own skills, those of Catalunya. I don't need to be blamed on Madrid. They don't need any more skills, no more virtual countries. They need to know how to manage an autonomous community, as rich and plural as it was – and I speak in the past – Catalonia. Look at your navel, because ruling is managing, it's not squandering. It's saving. It's not plugging, it's getting there. And it's not facing, it's conciliating. Look, I've barely been in this Parliament for two and a half years as a Member, and this experience has helped me to see that these twenty sheets of decree, or forty faces, as you can see, are wet paper. Totally inert. But that is, propaganda from a decadent government. During this time, I have seen dozens of proposals approved, most of my Parliamentary Group, from Ciutadans, dozens of motions, but which have fallen into a broken bag. And of course whose actual effectiveness on the street is null. We are not professional politicians, it is not our profession, as it is yours. We don't have any plugs in the institutions. We are professional liberals whose families, brothers, parents, friends are suffering from ERTEs, redundancies in industry, automotive or tourism. And you're having to close your business because leaders like you don't do what you have to do, that is, your work as a politician. Let's talk about budgets now. Budgets, the eternal subject pending from the various governments of the Generalitat, and that the last years have never been presented in time and form. Because today is July 8th and in just three months, Mr Aragonese, you know perfectly well that, by law, you would have to present those budgets of 2021. Are you working on them? Are you thinking of getting Catalonia out of this serious crisis we're in? Or, on the contrary, does your electoral calculator think only of the next autonomous elections? To see himself as president, yes, before passing through the dialogue table with Sánchez. In these decrees that present us, some measures are subject to budget allocation, and some even commits already regular items in the 2021 budget, which still does not exist. I certify the above, this is all wet paper. However, as I mentioned in the last Health Committee, they give us a choice between fear or death, putting in place necessary measures among other unnecessary or non-urgent measures that come too late, but which must be resolved. So they leave us no choice but to choose between Guatemala or Guatemala, and for this reason we shall abstain in the three decrees in order not to block those measures which must necessarily continue. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.193.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members: I do not know if I deserve the qualification of ‘normal, or extraterrestrial society, or of which group you have to think Ciutadans that we are; in other words, if you are a member of the... Today, the Vice-President presents to us the decrees of law 21, 25 and 26, which follow his titles and the majority of the titles that have presented to us, therefore, are to face the situation of the Covid with economic, cultural, in this case, and social measures. We're here with these decrees, Vice President, huh? , which we are counting on, but you must not remember that just now, on June 4th, we approved a motion, on the proposal of my parliamentary group, which at its 4th point: "We call on the Government to: abandon the dynamic of adopting related measures, without pre-negotiation, by means of decrees, and to tackle reconstruction measures from the social dialogue and negotiation with parliamentary groups. And, to be honest, that I like to be, this was a focus of the group of commons; say honest in this because, after all, we see many news that the government lowers university fees as if it were its initiative. And, finally, they've had many years to bring them down, since 2012, and it hasn't been until 2020, the parliamentary group of commons, with whom they've agreed on the premise, forced them to do this. 2016 had already been approved in Parliament, but well, it had to be their proposals and with pressure to approve assumptions. I say this because, from time to time, it's fine too – it's fine – to be honest. Well, I don't know if you should remember, from this, what we approved on June 4, Vice President. But if you haven't remembered, you also have your team, I guess, that you can remember, right? In the end, one is thinking – and Mr Moreno said yesterday in the debate of the specific plenary of residences, that it is that in the end it seems that this government is the same as the one approved by this Parliament, because it is not as simple as this, that it is trying not to make unrelated decrees on proposals, to more, different, of different themes, with a single decree, and more trying to agree with the opposition. So, well, it's not as simple as that we've been covering for... They've been covering for us. Dimecres comes to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Vice-President, to an appearance that will be made by Constellera Vergés, also at our request, to present the extraordinary expense of the Covid, and also the decrease of the entrances due, therefore, to this situation of pandemic. I hope you can really explain with some documents, with some reports, all the information. Li's got a week left. I hope that, as it was approved also with that young man giving us the information, because I believe that transparency, of which you, many times, therefore, speak, is a reality the scale. We wait for it at three o'clock in the afternoon and hope that, at least, this can be completed, since it has not complied with the disconnected decrees and the dialogue with the opposition. And we also give him this from the expense, because the other day, according to the Independent Office of Regulation and Supervision of Public Contracting, the expenditure that the Generality has made for Covid is 320_million euros in three_ thousand awards. On the website of the Generalitat it increases a little more this xifra, but, obviously, not up to 3,500_million euros that, added to the 1,500_millions of reduction of the entrances, tell you what you have done; it is to say, 5,000_millions in total. Although President Torra does, so every day he pushes 1,000 more, doesn't he? Let's see if there's a little more resources coming in. Well, we need explanations and we need to know what really is the expense that has been incurred in these pandemic months. In any case, today, as I said, there were twenty unrelated decrees, no dialogue and no negotiation with parliamentary groups. Now I could tell you what I say to you every time I come out here to defend our position, that I'm tired of listening to myself, Vice President, because every time I come out here I tell you: it's not a trick, it's not a second to talk to parliamentary groups or agree on the measures that you put on white in these decrees. And on the other hand, you're still insisting on asking the government of the state, and I'm saying, it's good that it's tomorrow, but it's also good that this line you're working with the state and that I also know that you have, and all, the majority of counselors, with the ministers, also have it here with the opposition. So, we always demand out here that we don't have the means to donate, and I think it would be good for you, so, once in a while, to start this path. I don't know... yesterday, the Reconstruction Commission went out, maybe this helps us get to some agreements. We'll see about that. Anyway, I read on Twitter today that who you seem to be playing, at least the Republican Left group, is journalists, sometimes to deny them and tell them things that they write that they don't like them. In short, spending so much time in governing perhaps all of us would be a little better. In any case, today they have three decrees with very different measures, many barriers. We'd like to say four things about these. With Culture, Congressman Bruguera, who knows a lot more than I, has told the Councilman many times that the measures they are taking are insufficient. In the presupposition of 2020, we were already critical of what this government was proposing before the pandemic; it is to say, that the importance that the government gave to culture was not what we thought was appropriate, because there was no increase in presupposition. We are still below the 2010 levels, and so now what it is is to try to put some measure in place to deal with this severe crisis, which is true of the cultural sector. But to us it seems absolutely insufficient for a sector that generates prestige, but to more generate jobs and wealth in our territories. The sector of leure, which you touched and I would like to dedicate a little... It's a sector that has suffered a lot, because it just starts the pandemic when the colonies of the schools are there; now, more than that, there are the couples of summer, the colonies that are also fanciful when the educational activity ends, and therefore they have seen how it is reduced and lost a little too much of its reserve. In fact, they say there has been a descent in summer couples and colonies of a 40_per_cent, which in some cases up an 80. Come on, it's a very high sip. And, well, you presented some measurements today. We still think they're insufficient. But, beyond the insufficiency, I wanted to tell him that they were coming late. It is now a management fault of Acelec, which is the employer, therefore, that they do not yet have news of the scholarships and aids, but that it has been approved, but not the processing; therefore, many couples have started without knowing if they will come back to help. And many families that may not yet have targeted these couples because the call for them has not yet been opened. I mean, man, I don't know, vice president, we all know when the summer starts, right? The summer begins on June 21st, and therefore, it is not, there, an extraordinary thing, we could have predicted. This decree, in the accounts of June 2nd, we could have placed it on May 2nd, and we would probably have speeded up the management and we would have started the couples when he was nearing, with these grants. I'm saying that because the same manager of the company said that there were many couples starting later in the hope of these aids. Home, therefore, this was easy to solve, but it gives the feeling of a certain leave behind in management. In short, in this decree that touches above all these two themes we will abstain, because no..., even though, well, they do not seem bad, they are insufficient and arrive late the measures. The next decree, which is the 25/2020. In this I will focus above all on the social aspects and on those that, although they make an adventure, it is true, shy, but an adventure with proposals that my group has always demanded, which is the theme of addressing the situation of the caregivers and workers of the lar at once definitive. You are planting a subsidy here to promote the contracting of these women, which most work in the submerged economy and in conditions, that is, very precarious. According to a report from the UGT, the sum of these workers is around 243 euros, indecent, and, well, you make a proposal to promote this contract. All right. Now, we think we could provide a little more ambitious measures, taking into account that we are talking about a collection that exceeds 200,000 women in Catalonia, or that it is a piece of a very important collection, which, moreover, does not contract, so it does not contribute to social security and its resources, so they are very reduced, right? It seems to us that it is urgent for the government to prioritise this sector. We have not spoken many times, he has also spoken... we have spoken from my parliamentary group with proposals that have been voted on, that have been approved and that are not being finalized afterwards. For example, there is a theme in which you have skills, which is the theme of the Labour Inspectorate. In this one, they all have them, don't they? Sometimes they don't forget, but they do. And, on the other hand, to the last memories that have been made, you do not see any action addressed, precisely, to the inspection of workers of the school, at least in the later year, right? Nor is there a request made to the social justice of prior authorization to enter, for example, a home, in these cases, is there? Why clearly, sometimes, how do you get this fraud? So if you go in the house. So even a petition has never been made, as the social jurisdiction law allows. So, finally, this is an issue that we should address, with which we should be brave, that this is a first shy proposal, but I am already telling you, in this concrete decree we will vote in favour, because only this issue for us is very relevant, but I am already saying that it also seems to us shy, and, above all, having the skills, that it is one of the things that we repeat to them, having the skills and having the resources – not all that we want, obviously, yes, of course – but having the skills and having the resources have to act, and in this matter of inspection they have to do, and the nails that advance in this line. The last decree, which is the 26th, in the last, in this, I will devote myself above all to the issues of salvation, because in matters of security the Member of Parliament also spoke before the 21st, which this 26th modifies the 21st, and therefore he has already done... ai, the 22nd, and made his reflection, but, of salvation, we would like to say some things. The decree recognises, as did the Vergés Councillor, that I believe that these Councillor statements should be placed every five minutes in the media, that the Generality has had full capacity and willingness to mobilise all the country's public and private care resources for the struggle against the Covid, and that it has increased the capacity of the system with new installations, beds, ICUs, etc. It is to say that he recognizes the decree and he recognized it yesterday also the Councillor Vergés. I think it's good to be clear, because many times from here it's said, "How did we get our skills... so it doesn't seem so, huh? For what the decree says and the councilwoman says. And it's good that it was so, because it's supposed to do it, and it's supposed to put the private sector in the public service. Now, what's not right is the compensation that happened to the private sector, and that's what we've already told them and that's what MP Escarp said here. You've paid for UCI's bed €43.000. It seems to us to be an excessive, absolutely excessive gypsum, as we have already said, so we have already voted in a manner contrary to the decree that I set up. And now what are you doing in this decree? Prolong these private sector care services. Well, that's it. Listen to me, it's available. But in a different way, when a search, well, see if they've changed that from the cup, right? He said: "Go, come, let's go and see..., so no. No, say very subtlely that they also extend this payment with an instruction that will already determine, a further instruction. And we ask ourselves, if we disagree or if it seemed to them that 43,000 euros might be too much, why didn't they change it in this very decree? It's just that they're good at 43,000 euros in private. Home, I, finally, if the public sector is fully supplied and in an excellent situation, therefore, we can ask ourselves - but I do not know that, to put a case of my region, now the emergencies of the CAP of Masnou and Masnou have been eliminated, Alla and Teià will have to go to the emergencies of Badalona, so it does not seem reasonable that we pay 43,000_euros for a bed of UCI. So, as we go into the public, we reinforce the private. So we don't agree, and so yesterday your group president, Mr. Sabria, said that you, the Republican Left, are so much for the public... Maybe you're reviewing what Mr. Sabria's public wants to say, because I've been missing from home. They cannot vote clearly in favour of this decree. It seems to us that the change could have been resolved, modified this cipher with this law decree. You don't do it, and so here we are. We assume, as in this one we will vote against, that they have agreed this with Ciutadans or the PP. I say this because there is a lot of feeling here: "Who are the members of us.... Look, I only know one thing, that Citizens vote with you in these spheres or in those aspects connected, say, to the most conservative element or to the strands of their policies, and they do not find us in the others. I suppose that's what they'll bring with Ciutadans, and therefore their new partners must be them, who in those fears where they can't find either the commons or the PSC, so look for them. A disappointment, in this sense, because we thought that this decree could resolve this and it seems that it does not. Finally, Vice-President, we are disappointed by the disconnected decrees and the lack of dialogue. I don't know if I can tell her that I'd like to say something else, because I think I'm going to still love myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for the Advancement of the Word... Pardon me, no, on behalf of the Catalonia Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.195.0	Yes, President. I wouldn't want to stop this intervention having a record for the Iqoxe worker, who just informed us that he died as a result of an accident at work, and I think it's worth setting a record for the family and the union family. Also tell them that the unions have a few undertakings because there was a endorsement, in this case on behalf of the Generality, of taking over the activity, and that, therefore, they would require political responsibilities and also responsibilities, obviously, to the company, but he did want to start with this reminder and convey the condolences to the groups of workers and workers and also to the family. Well, now we have three decrees, now we have a reference, Mrs Romero said, there are twenty decrees since the Government of the Generality has approved and I also have the feeling – as Mrs Romero also said – that every time, every 15 days we come and we almost get the same intervention, it is to say, that we find some decrees that are a species of all fruits, of Macedonia, it is to say, of unrelated things, of partial measures, and that we understand that they have more to see with a certain gesture that the Government needs to do, and then I will explain it too. I have the feeling that the decrees have just been converted or have been converted into the mandatory mask of the Lleida crisis, that is, a species of smoke curtain to cover the government's lack of capacity to give a comprehensive response to the situation of the economic crisis that we are experiencing and also the health crisis that we are experiencing. Because I don't know, at the end of the day I have the feeling that what you've been reasonable is: "Well, let's approve of the generality's assumptions. You probably felt that the first few days of the pandemic there had been decrees. And it is true that, in principle, the decrees had – we could say – certain large, certain, contents of measures, but now it makes sense that in sister's accounts, right? , to have sat down with the groups and with the social agents and to have faced the set of measures, to have been able to talk to them, because we have also told them repeatedly. The reason is probably that the set of measures that were adopted so we might have discussed them, we might have provided them, because it is true that in the end we also have no capacity to influence the set of measures, that many took them and that we could have fine-tuned them. I have the feeling that they are decrees of councils and councillors, that is, of titular measures, of sending messages to certain sectors, of going to look for certain electoral targets and that, in the end, we are ahead of decrees that form part more of an electoral campaign. I also told them in another debate that they are debates, not decrees, of the electoral campaign that has already begun between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana and also decrees of the same councillors of Junts for Catalonia to see who ends up feeling the head of the list made to the proper elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, that they are not called, but that everyone knows that they do not cheat well to arrive, if the situation of the health rebound can finally be controlled or ended controlling, right? And at the end of the day, these debates have been converted, more than ever, into measures, into electoral campaign debates. I'm with the government and I'm done turning it into opposition, too, that's to say, in some groups we also have to hold up the electoral campaign of City in these things from the height of a campaign. Like we're also in the electoral campaign, so I'm going to go in there already, because we do the debate, that's to say, we debate the opposition against the opposition, the government with the government, something that yes, as my friend says: "I'm doing the pa like some tourists, aren't I? But in any case two things that don't hold up, it's to say, if the same day you're saying this, it's just announced that Seat will make a 5.000_million reversal, in this case, to Martorell's plant to build the electric car and, therefore, so unusual it doesn't have to be the situation that Barcelona sees that it is certainly the capital of sustainable mobility at European level. And the second is about estates. Miri, what you plant with estates is that the inheritances of 1_million euros do not pay res– 1_million euros. I'll set an example. The other day I was lucky enough to go to dinner with a friend of mine who lives in Vilassar de Dalt and I was curious about what's going on and you're going to see, right? , there, the real estate with all the houses: houses with pool, duplex, triplex..., not a house reached the value of 1_million euros. I told them the other day: I don't think you're reading the laws they're presenting. Don't read them. I mean, a 1-million-euro house in Catalonia, you think you don't have to pay anything for your heritage? So, what kind of middle class do you think there is in Catalonia? Do you think people can buy a 1_million-euro house? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly. So, why do you, anyway, why do you defend a house of 1_million euros not pay anything in inheritance? Yes, yes, it is so, its law; it is the one that poses it – it is the one that poses it. You say that a house of €1 million pays nothing. I mean, I told them, they don't even know what they're presenting, but it's the same. In any case, we're following the electoral campaign. Entering the decrees. Look, I think measures are hard to say you're against some measures. What is happening is that we go back to the principle of which I gave, they are measures that are left, that are very punctual, that is, obviously measures for the cultural sector, agree. Some, for example, tell us about the sector that has made little publicity, that they are not competitive. That it's the plane that comes up first, so it's the plane that ends up accessing it. Then again in the lleure sector, right? Yes, here, that we have met with entities in the lleure sector. Well, is it 80 euros? Well, better than anything, but the problem is that for many families eighty-eight euros does not come up to cover the cost, in this case, that it has a couple of estiu and, therefore, many families that have difficulties... – today comes out a date that explains that we can certainly arrive, hopefully not, but at the end of the year, as a result of the Covid, one_third of the children of Catalonia may be in a poor situation – so that many families cannot access these couples of estiu. In fact, the thing that moves our entities is that we will be very far away from that education, from that great announcement of an education, because, in any case, in most entities it is 50_percent of the inscriptions, surely also logically because of the very complicated situation, but also because there are many families that can't face it, right? Then, entering Decree 25, again, or still, welcome the creation of a new occupation in the field of home care work, but she also said it – as Mrs Romero said – feel honest, she also highlighted it, didn't she? There's a universe of practically 200,000 especially women that could be attached to it. Clearly, if someone calculates the resources they're destined for, they can reach up to 869 people, if it's full-time. We're going to have a little bit of the same time you're helping us with the autonomies. We have the headline, don't we? : « Help of two thousand euros for the autonomous. You calculated this and it came to a small part of all the autonomies in Catalonia. So I think we're missing this more coral debate. Now, we're probably aware that... it's about the Generality's capabilities and we're fully aware of it because we negotiated the assumptions, we talked about its processing and, in any case, there were also measures that would entail a substantial change. We thought the change probably felt more like saying, "Listen, the generality can't get to everything, but we sort out four sectors or five strategic sectors, in which we can take resources that have a very big impact and that have a very big power, I mean, I don't know. For example, we have said, probably more than a policy of dispersal of aid or resources that probably allows us to place the holder, so we could probably have taken over and said, "Listen, we take all the resources and we take over the National Pact for Industry and we make a very great leap in quality. We place all the resources we can and make a very big jump in search. We'll put all the resources we can and we'll probably have to step up public transport, won't we? That we have difficulties in the situation of sustainable mobility. So, this, I think, is the debate that we've been complaining about for months and that we've been missing. In any case, as I said, it is difficult to oppose measures, but we do find this comprehensive view, which is also what social workers ask for. You know that social workers and, especially, trade unions are very critical of the government, because they feel that there has been no real will of their own and that they can discuss in a global way how to take action. Surely, the Government of the State has many things that it does poorly, but, like, at least, social concertation – and in this case, I want to put in value what the Minister of Labour is doing – so it is impepinable. And I'm done with Decree 26. Look, we, I think there are a lot of things that are fine. Let us return, once again, to the fact that private health centres are at the disposal of the public health system, space-enhancing for health care and health personnel, which we extend further than the state of alarm with the Procicat. But Mrs Romero also gave it to him. We have already voted against Decree 12, because we did not understand why a price of EUR 43,000 had been set for hospitalization in ICU when, in the end, in many other autonomous communities – to start with, the Valencian Community – or, in any case, even the whole employer, asked for fewer resources for these hospitalizations. In fact, you told us – and the same decree I would say – that if the winnings were excessive – that we don't know; neither do we know and we can't discuss it, surely, the week you are going to calmly – that it would be reviewed, but in any case, we understand that in this decree what is done is to give continuity to this element of EUR 43,000, especially for private sanitation, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in cases of hospitalisation and, therefore, we will vote against Decree No. 26, which I understand is already with Ciutadans, as they did the other time, which in this they do not hunt down the rings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.197.0	Thank you. Good afternoon. As I have little time, I am told by the other spokespersons of the opposition that I respect the little consensus in the measures adopted through the decree. We already have 20 decrees and we think that this is a chapter of less support for this chamber, after which we approved, this Parliament, to terminate the contract with Ferrovial and that today the Presidency Counsellor said that it was still in force and that she intended to follow, that it would still remain in force, after the suspension of the agents involved in the assault on the Bages and that the Department of Interior says that it will not complete this measure. And now we find ourselves, so, more decrees, made to the screen of this chamber, because the government does and does not count with the Parliament. And if you're not the ones who have this room in value, then who will put it in value? We are sufficiently concerned, in fact, with this way of doing and defiing parliamentary taxation and control. In the first place, Decree 21 speaks of a collaboration agreement to regulate the guarantee fund for lines in order to promote measures to finance cultural projects. We've been looking for this place all over the place. We tried it on the ICF page. We've been trying to call everyone to see if... the Department of Culture. In the end, David, like institutional relations, explained to us that, as it is an ICF agreement, we cannot access it unless we make a request for information, that it would trigare a_me and a mig and that, then, we could get the agreement. The truth is that it seems to us a scandal the lack of transparency of the Catalan Institute of Finance, because you ask us to approve an extension of the guarantee fund, but the agreement that regulates the guarantee fund cannot read it. And of course, it's a little difficult to make a political position with this opacity. For another band, in this Decree 21, you also constitute a grant for basic sub-administrations for the professional performing arts, visual arts, music, audiovisual, with a single payment, in competitive competition– as lately there are all these subsidies–, with 5_million, and who first arrives, the aagafa, and who doesn't, no. Five million. After that, 3.5 million help families, who go directly to the entities or companies that have organized the activities of the leure. Because, I don't know what problem there is in trust in families or if it's easier to give it to entities. The other: entrepreneurs. Borrowings that generate benefits or benefit from lending the activities of the leurea. Miri, I already know that we have a different position and, surely, now, when the Saint descends, he will say: "Yes, companies gain benefits to do activities of the leure. It's all right. It's not our model and we don't share it. For another band, 1.5_million for youth contracting in practices. A total of 10 million. EUR 48 million to the Circuit de Catalunya on the premises. For another band, talk about helping with healing, aging, dependence work. Look, what it takes is to socialize the healing work. And now I'll explain to them, perhaps, a personal story, but the other day she was calling a company of the assembly, that her husband had a stroke in full Covid, and it turns out they sent her to rehab and after two months of rehab send her home. This 78-year-old person has to take care of her husband. So the only thing he has is an hour's attention to dependence. What's she doing, with an hour's attention to addiction? I explain this case, not to make a concrete case, but because that's what happens. The services of healing, aging and dependence work must be a matter of the State, not of women. Women don't do it out of love, that's what. And that's enough. And you have some subsidies here that are insufficient to, perhaps, cover the paper in the pre-election campaign, but it is very difficult the situation we are living in. For another band, the sub-administrations, the water canons. How are we forgiving the water channel to the water sub-governing entities? Make them responsible. It's good to be responsible for the private sector. And lastly – and because I don't have time – the last decree on making available private sanitation media for public sanitation to change from a counter-performance, so, look, it's not our model either. You will re-edit 43,000 euros for UCI for Covid in this decree. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.199.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies, twenty-three decrees of the law and of the twenty-three decrees of the law, have been modifications of previous decrees, and today and even a new figure, which is to be automatically charged, the decree of the law 22, which we will validate from here to an estona. Now we carry him directly from this law. And, in addition, with themes as homogeneous as grants for cultural projects, as funerals, as sanitary measures, as water canon or as support for education, right? It's a chickpea. Now, you complain about the opposition, you can't complain, we haven't put them there... I'd probably say we never dropped them absolutely no law. There's been, I think it's an act of generosity on the part of everyone. I think you should also have this generosity with parliamentary groups as well as at least try to put them in knowledge of all these decrees and all the measures you take, and this has not been so delicate for a moment. We will maintain the same attitude of saying to them: "I escort, pull forward, but I do not count on the unconditional support of our group. We share some measures, others do not share them directly and others are absolutely inadequate. To give examples, because we do not have time, obviously, to talk about everything... But, look, the performance for basic sub-administrations to professionals of the performing arts, visuals, music and audiovisual, we have doubts about the conditions that you have in these aids; concretely, there are no temporary conditions of exercise of the professional activities, that is to say, as it is shown that these people exercise this activity. There aren't any. Moreover, in the case of technicians – in the case of technicians – it is said that the only requirement is to have shared for fifteen days throughout the year 2019. And this can give a right to a benefit or that it is unique for basic sub-administrations of more than a thousand euros. You mentioned the daily import; the global import is more than a thousand euros. So, doubt it. Your education, well, so, these helpers are fine, they're fine, I don't know if they're enough or not. Surely, the sector that you wanted is that the government's sensitivity to them has been from the beginning, because it came late and took action..., concretely the Education Department took measures that put at risk the continuity of entrepreneurs who do have benefits and entities of work that obviously have the benefits between the same people who provide the service. On Decree 25, apart from the originality of this deletion of Decree 22 by the way of the acts, Decree 25 contains measures, one, which can be laudable led to a free one, which is this of the cure of the people. Look, this entry looks good on us. They raise the suspicions when you have two conditions, and this is addressed to two types of citizens: people who are not high in Social Security in two years and – this raises the suspicions – foreigners with social background, and therefore with authority of residence, who do not seem ill, if not that we see, in the next chapter, what you intend to regulate: that it is support programs to the administrative regularity of foreign people. And here you allow me to say two things: the first, is a manifesto to what we have told you many times, which is the lack of loyalty of this government, the lack of loyalty, in this case, to Spanish legislation. It already seems to us very good that you don't like the Foreign Law, but, look, now you're leaving a pinion with the Socialist Party and we can, listen, so change the Foreign Law if you don't like it. But what is not fair is to make subsidies so as to facilitate the administrative regularity of foreign persons. But, listen, what does this have to do with Covid? What do you have to do with the health crisis? [[Someone said, "Look at Lleida.]] Yes, ah! , friend, « look at Lleida. So, what they tell us is that there's nothing to see is that there's nothing to see. And Lleida's problem isn't a strictly contagious problem, but it's a timer problem. Is that what they want to fix? So make me the impression that this isn't the way to fix it. Water canon, man, so, if anyone can't pay the water canon, what you haven't heard... Yes, of course, I have to change the themes, because you change the themes in the same decrees. Listen, the one who didn't feel... home, I know talking about foreign affairs and talking about the water canon, so it's rare. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Yeah, it's clear, that's what the decree is. What's not fair is that if one person can't pay for the water chain, we have to pay for the others, because if he has to pay for the company, we're paying for the rest of the consumers. Therefore, you have felt that if the company does not collect the water that it supplies, it is not necessary to charge the canon and to stop charging the Generality. What less? And the later decree, which is the extension of the state of alarm, the extension of those aspects that you consider necessary to try to address post-containment or this situation in which we now find ourselves. But, really, it's not even that they're getting out of trying to control this pandemic and trying to control the rebounds that we're having. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.201.0	President, vice president, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. Well, it has been said on many occasions already on behalf of many of the people who have gone through this Faristol today. It's the twenty-one decree that the government approves to deal with the consequences of this pandemic. And some people plant it here like it's a tough situation. What would seem very difficult to me, and surely you yourself here would do some huge skirmishes, would be if the government did not approve of it; if the government did not do what it was playing; if the government, before an absolutely new situation, fortunately, because we did not have the bad luck of suffering other pandemics of these characteristics..., if before a situation that every week, every month, appeared new situations, we affected sectors..., changed and evolved the pandemic, depending on how we were changing from the phase of the alarm, depending on how we were passing also... and we were moving closer to the summer period... Every day, every week, has changed reality, changed the situation. Look, in the world of management, there's a quote that's a lot of reference, that's the one that says nothing's permanent except change. Or, said in another way, that the only constant is the change. It's as long as it was very old as 2,500 years ago, when Heraclit put it as a manifesto or popularity. 2,500 years ago, it was a long time ago. In the 21st century, the transcendent is not the change, but the speed of this change, and in the midst of the pandemic what is transcendent is the vertigo with which we face to manage all these situations. And to the government – to all governments, to all administrations: Generality, State, local administrations, the private sector, too – it has moved with great agility, with great speed; it has asked to read the problems of every day, of every week, and to give it an answer to the fastest, to the most efficient possible. To identify these problems, to identify these needs, to determine whether the measure that was proposed was proportionate, was equitable with the measures that were also applied to other affected sectors in a manner similar to that which, in terms of fiscal terms in terms of horizontal equity. And he had to respond quickly, and the government did. One day after the pandemic was declared, on the part of the World Health Organization, the government already approved two decrees to give it an answer. And the proper balance has been found between the paralysis of the analysis and the need for urgency, and twenty-one decrees. It seems to me that it's... evidence that the government has done what it was to do, that it was to rule, that it was to give response to every need that ever appeared. And yes, the decrees are not of an extraordinary literary quality, they have no consistency of contents. But we are not here today to assess the literary quality, consistency, of the decrees of the law, but we are ahead of a pandemic that has left 500,000 dead and 12 million people affected worldwide. Therefore, today what we seem to be going to be able to measure is the ability to respond from the proximity, from the detail, from the knowledge of the casuistics of each affected sector, and to incorporate it into the executive action of the Government of the Generality. Twenty-one decrees. As Mrs Romero has also commented, here we have discussed on many occasions, on many plenary sessions, and we know practically already the arguments that we use one another and that we use the other. Here we have been feeling every time we have discussed a decree law that the government up late, that the measures are insufficient, that it would be worth making a global planning... Listen, we're in a pandemic. We are in a situation where new needs appear every week. And what it seems to us is that the answer is to have a waist, to have flexibility, to have the ability to read it day by day and to give it an answer. Some commented that this rule by law... Listen, Madrid has approved the minimum vital ingredient by royal decree. Perhaps because it is real it is not so difficult, but, listen, an issue of such important transcendence has been approved with similar things, because we are in an extraordinary situation, an emergency situation, in which the important thing is to know how to respond to all these situations as quickly as possible. And this government... it's also important that we all follow it very consciously. And it is also one of the resources that have been used in a recurring way in the arguments and debates that we have been bringing to an end here. Yes, it is true: many of the sectors, many of the departments, if not all, have a situation of infra-financing. That's right. And when tensions as we have strained in this pandemic situation the society, the sectors, the same administration, this situation of extremes put into evidence this lack of funding. It seems that what we should do all the folds is be aware of it and act accordingly, and try to correct this lack of funding that the Administration of the Generality has in a chronic and dramatic way. And it's true. Residences, hospitals, education and sectors also very linked to the Administration, such as culture, reading and sport, suffer from this lack of funding. In any case, we all understand that we should work on it to give it a response to the medium and short term. The Vice-President explained with great detail the contents of the three decrees. There's a little time left; in any case, I'll do some brushwork highlighting some of the most outstanding elements. Between the first two decrees, from 21 to 25, they own from table 25_million euros to act, surgically, to help those sectors that are most patenting this situation of economic crisis. I guess you're remarkable, you're important. The first, the 21st, helps the professional sectors of the cultural sector, helps everyone who... why no one in our country, due to lack of resources from their families, this summer can not have a space of sociability, that they have been very missed throughout this period of confinement. Decree 25. Decree 25 also acts with extraordinary social sensitivities, and it seems to me that it is important that we follow it, at least for the parliamentary group I represent, and it seems very important to us. It is working and trying to help the sector of cures and the sector of llar, the students of families of immigrant origin... It is trying to help the whole situation of social exclusion resulting from this health crisis, and it seems to me that it is done with knowledge of the sectors, of the problems and in a very strict and appropriate way. And the later of the decrees, on 26/2020, is a decree that, in short, the one that he sees to say – and it seems important to me to speak of the category, because we often end up before the anecdote –, the one that he sees to this decree is that we have a situation, today, in the country..., the decree was approved on June 23rd, fifteen days ago, before the Segria, and come to say, the decree: the guard cannot be lowered; the health sector, the health system, the public system of our country cannot lower the guard; all the management tools that have been built during the period of the state of alarm must be maintained, they must be kept prepared, for as long as they have been reopened. Unfortunately, fifteen days ago it was approved, and before it is possible to validate in this Parliament we already need, of course, to be able to put it in order. And this is the category of this decree, and this is the category of which the country must continue to maintain its system of public salvation, which the private system must be at the disposal of the public salvation and the salvation of all the citizens of our country. In any case, there is one decree, it is certain, when the agaphs in their globality, when you analyze all their articles, all their dispositions, finish a very clear reading of an effective response, an accurate response, a global response to all the needs that have gone forth as a result of this economic crisis situation. A government that through these right laws, also through many of the government agreements that are taken every week, has deployed a whole set of extraordinary measures, has put forward many initiatives that lay the life of the citizenry at the center of government action and that, in some way, are trying to give response to all the structural conditions of our society, that this situation of brutal crisis has put even more manifest, and is responding to the needs of the conjunctural ones that have derived from it. From the proximity of problems, from the knowledge of detail, from the proximity to the citizenry, the government is doing what it touches, when it touches and in a way seems to me to be very effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the MP Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.203.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, you see that once more we are going to validate in this hemicle decrees law that in this case we need its processing to give response to the current situation that our country has seen: 21/2020, 25/2020 and 26/2020. The Covid-19, with the will to put an end to it all, has set us so many folds for such an old man for the activity of our home, with the utmost prudence and with the utmost caution. The government of Catalonia, the execution encapsulated by the very honorable president Torra, has not stopped working from the beginning of the pandemic to stand next to the people making the flag of that « For Catalonia and for the life that closed his investiture speech. This phrase, which we have heard on numerous occasions, has gained strength in the past few months, has been superimposed on a situation of maximum complexity, unanticipated and unimagined, and has imbued the President and the Government with responsibility for management and permanent rigour. On many occasions, the political forces that oppose this chamber have cried out wrongly and rightly that the government does not rule, and that it should put into replete and put into value the valuable work done during this period when our lives have made a strong stumbling block, as has been done by the institutions of our country, from the greatest to the smallest. So, a government that doesn't rule? So no. A government that has roamed since the first day, that has dedicated itself to itself and anima, that has recognized from transparency the best to do and that has led decisions and requests, despite the fact that on many occasions it has been minor and obvious. From the beginning of the health crisis and with an uncertain outlook, the Government of the Generality has gradually taken a series of measures relating to a wide range of, but all important, areas. The Covid-19's sac has made the cross-cutting of areas and materials that come from our government, and, therefore, it has been a matter of, and will be hot to go with various responses that can cover all the needs and shortcomings that are now perceived. The pandemic has produced inexplicable burdens and has had effects in all sectors, and it is for this reason that we must adopt laws with all kinds of measures. Specifically, for those three decrees that we are discussing together today, we find economic, fiscal, administrative, social, health, cultural, etc. measures; many issues that reflect the need for a cross-cutting approach to the current crisis. This does not go from compartments to ponds to find a single solution; it goes from compartments open, with multiple solutions and with people like that of all policies; as always, but now still more. It is for this reason, therefore, that in these decrees we find, for example, measures of various financial needs; measures of domestic work and of cures to facilitate the contracting of this sector while the equipment of the residences are affected by Covid-19; measures against social exclusion and inequality that has worsened this crisis; measures in cooperatives and joint owners, measures in the field of health; measures directed at cultural projects to provide liquidity to entities and cultural and professional enterprises in the performing arts, visual arts, music and audiovisual arts sector, with activities suspected by reason of the health crisis, which have enabled support to people without benefits during the month of March, April and May, as pointed out also earlier by the Vice-President. Of everything that is addressed in these decrees and that I have just briefly enunciated, but not for this least important and necessary, they will allow me to make a special impact on the subject of education. For Juntes per Catalunya, it is a question that must be preserved, the heritage of Catalonia of the entities and associations and the identity pillar from a cultural and social perspective. In one of these three decrees, specifically at 21/2020, of 2 June, urgent economic, social and cultural measures, three priority actions are taken: helping families to make education activities more economically accessible in the summer of 2020; helping non-working and entrepreneurial entities to organize and operate educational activities with the requirements of Covid-19, and hiring young people in practices for entities in this sector. In this complex context, with the risk of contagion as a scene to take into account, we need to turn back the weights that the world has suffered to its full extent and we need to bear in mind that some of the most harmed rights have been precisely those in this sector, reading and education, understood as a whole. The decrease in demand is the current trend, with a global of 50_per_cent less activities and users that found in it a good way to get away from the summer. This class is closely linked to the school environment, and that's why we understand as a whole these two great mons that, although someone wants to separate them, have a very close relationship. Educating is socializing and humanizing, and we do so through formalizing and institutionalizing. But let's not end up here, because there are other potential educators, among whom there are families, and also the whole world of leure. The coordination of all actors is, therefore, the best way to socialize and humanize, to educate, and it is for this reason that each time there is a more positive value of non-formal education activities: work in values of emotions, social cohesion, the development of social competitions, academics and inclusion in working life. Having as a work mark the guidelines and protocols developed for the Process to regulate the functioning and organization of the lleure and of the activities that take place at the end, we must bet to make use of the educational potential of this sector that evil to pull forward and that has great qualities, as always, but also now, at this critical moment that our country sees. That families can regain confidence in the actors of education in the Church, that they are excellent, and that we are at their side from all possible institutional fronts, always with the complicity of the gatherings, that we work from the first line to the side of our lives and our lives. Public resources are needed, and they are not only needed to help families, who also, or to help entities, who also, or to hire young people in practices, who also. They are needed to promote and promote reading and educational activities, and now they are needed to make reading a safe space, with the necessary conditions and recommendations. Before I finish my intervention, I would like to thank Congressman Xavier Quinquillà for his support in this area of the leureum, to whom I send from here a strong embrace, extended to the rest of the companies and companies of Segria in particular, and of Lleida in general, and to all his people and professionals working there. And if you'll allow me, speaking of lleure, a very strong hug, too, to all the ticks and all the ticks that already had the motxilla set up to pull out of the lleure and that have once again experienced an ups and downs necessary to get old for their safety and health. For them and they, a message: that at the moment they hear the stresses and the clothes but that they leave the illusions well unscathed, in this motxilla, so that they can quickly fill them again and they can go to enjoy from this lleure. At this moment of convulsion, every day we have the etymology of the word « lleure», of « lleute», which means «to be allowed, and we commit ourselves and conjure ourselves, from all the responsibilities we have, to do everything possible so that the lleure is precisely allowed and because outside the regular occupations and the daily obligations we find that space that allows us to entertain all the guarantees. We are voting for multiple themes converted into decrees to accompany and help people from multiple sectors who are valued positively from Junts to Catalonia; decrees designed from the team consciousness that leads a country and from the consciousness that works as a good collection ends up being an individual good. And one last point, that to be the last is not the least important, but today is the most important. We always remember the formula 'hands, distance and mask', because it is ultimately the measures that help us to protect ourselves and the measures that help us to protect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, the record that we will vote at the end of this late. [[Proposal for a resolution setting up a study committee on institutional and structural racism in the management of security]] [[252-00027/12]] And let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the dowry and which corresponds to the debate on the Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study committee on institutional and structural racism in the management of security, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republic. To defend it has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.205.0	Thank you, President. Before I get started, it's a long way to go, Mr. Rodriguez, because I'd like to correct a little something he's done around the foreign law. It is not necessary, the modification of the Foreign Law, which our group has repeatedly said for another band that it is against it, but it is not necessary to modify it in order to regulate massively, in this case, the people, but that, in accordance with Article 127, which speaks of when there is a public interest and general it is possible to make this change... I think that there is no more public and general interest than that all people who live in a territory, therefore, have right to work, have right, therefore, to develop their full potential. From here, we find ourselves with a proposal for a resolution of the results of point 5 of the subsequent motion, approved on March 5 for this chamber, on institutional racism. Since then this debate has taken place in the beautiful mig, it has taken place in the epithet of global policy in the case of George Floyd, but police abuses do not begin or end, unfortunately, with a murder or in the United States. One of the greatest exponents of this institutional racism, in this case of security, we find it in the identifications by ethnic profile, a fact generalized in all societies, intercultural, plural, in all those societies rich in origins, ethnicities and cultures. Therefore, Catalonia is not saved either. SOS Racisme, through the Service of Attention and Complaints, reveals that between 2016 and 2018_between_a 40 and 50_percent of complaints concerning police bodies correspond to conflicts initiated for an identification according to the ethnic profile. In this same study they also reported that 15_percent of the total number of complaints of racist attacks corresponded, in this case, to police bodies. But it is that, besides, 45_percent of the people interviewed in this study, 45_percent of the non-caucasian-looking people, recognize that they have been stuck and identified at least once. In the march of this campaign and report, « Stop stopping me, SOS Racisme announces that, according to data from the Mossos d'Esquadra – therefore, not data from SOS Racisme, but data from the same Mossos d'Esquadra – referring to the identifications during 2017 in Catalonia, a 54.1 of the total identifications are addressed to foreign persons, people of foreign origin, when these represent a 13_percent of the total population of Catalonia. That is to say, for every 7.4 people of foreign origin identified, only a non-foreign person is identified. It is obvious, moreover, that this fact leaves sequels to people who suffer from it or who are likely to suffer from it, as for example, therefore, to have to go out to the street in order to identify you. And maybe at this point we can try to have a little empathy, given that it's a situation that, on a timely basis, in this country, and in front of the confinement, we have lived, we can't go out in the street without a concrete reason not to be identified, but migrant people in an irregular administrative situation is a fact that they suffer chronically. Moreover, it is an attack on their identity, on their own cultural identity, on their personal identity, on their identity of origin; it is a development of these people, who feel different from treaties. Therefore, it plays against social cohesion, and all that affects social cohesion does not only affect a concrete collection, but also challenges it and therefore affects the joint venture of a society. And all of this, obviously, therefore, generates irreversible sequels and psychological consequences. And the fact is that it is not just SOS Racism: the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the UN Committee for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the UN Special Rapporteur on racism, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, the UN Working Group for People of African Descent and the Ombudsman for the People of Spain have found that the practice of the ethnic profile in the Spanish State is systemic and counterproductive to the phonenal rights of people and therefore insists on their eradication. Amnesty International also – 2011 – said: "The effect of the application of racial profiles is to reinforce the damage that foreign citizens who belong to certain ethnic groups are more likely to commit crimes. Therefore, it is not a matter of ailing cases, as has sometimes been said, and that so far as it is possible to punish those cases of practical ills of the second five agents, but that the cases that are ailing are the ones that end up coming out to the light, that normally if they come out to the light is also for the sake of the same person to denounce these facts. If a person reports it can end up with the police, so he can end up in a CIE, with an eviction order, or you know what, right? With which, therefore, we have to understand that this is a structural fact, which forms part of normality and social everyday life. I'll take it and I'll analyze it with that. And to do so from this point of view is the only way to be able to make decisions according to reality, that racism is structural, that it goes through everything, often invisiblely, and that it is especially hard and violent when it comes to the things that in principle must guarantee the security of the citizenry, of everything. These discriminations, however, are not limited only to public security; we also find them, and with very hard data, to private security. The lawyers of the Immigrant Space, the Immigrant Space, denounce the multiple extra-limitations by public transport vigilantes; and I'm sure we've all seen images in the media, every week, of how they suffer attacks, how they suffer attacks people with five ethnic profiles. I myself, a year ago, witnessed an attack on the subway that I videotaped, which I pushed to the streets, and that was hard for me to go to the Mossos to denounce nine-hundred rebuffed threats on the part of the extreme right. That means we're talking about a lobby, very right-wing organized groups, to which we need to find a solution. And the same goes, often, and they have also studied, in this case of SOS Racism, at the gates of the night, at the doors of the clubs, at the doors of the discotheque, that by the simple fact of having one color of skin or another, it can be a motivator to prevent us from entering this place. Therefore, the purpose of this committee is to recognize that we are ahead of a systematic and structural practice; that first of all it is necessary to make a shared diagnosis to know where we are, from witnesses of entities monitoring this racism in the management of security. Also, obviously, of the police, trade unions, technicians, experts and people who have been able to suffer this hardship. And from here, as Parliament, therefore, take measures to avoid any type of discrimination or to eradicate ethnic profiling according to police identifications, measures in the form of protocol, measures in the form of legislation, sanctions, if scale; in police bodies and in private security. Finally, I do not know whether the legislature will end sooner or later, but that the legislature cannot be excused to stop working on this issue, an issue that is so urgent. I therefore believe that I must commit myself and everyone else to the end of this work, regardless of the course of this legislature, in the same way – and I must say – that the parliamentary mandates that may arise must be applied for this government or the government that there is. And we already have two parliamentary mandates in this sense, just last week. One, on the proposal of the CUP - Creed Constituent, with punctual measures, as is the suspension of the six agents of Mossos investigated for the case of the racist aggression to the Bages ; you know..., or they have told us through the RAC1 media, in this case, that the Department of Interior, that the Government did not intend to apply the parliamentary mandate, and therefore it would be good if the Government told it officially, whether they intend to do it or not. And another, another proposal, in this case of the two groups of government, with structural measures to eliminate racial discrimination in society and its institutions towards people who have migrated and racialized. There is no excuse for devaluing the legislative power of this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the MP Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.207.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, workers and workers, very late everyone. This motion for a resolution responds to the fifth point of motion 158 on the situation of ICES, as the previous company has stated, and reverses the commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia with the creation of a study commission on institutional and structural racism in the management of the security of Catalonia, with the aim of establishing a shared diagnosis on which measures should be taken to avoid any discrimination in areas as sensitive as they affect both the day-to-day life of the citizen, such as the management of security, both public and private. We, like Junts for Catalonia, at the time voted in favour of this point of the motion, because we consider that the bad practices and the bad actions must be analyzed, investigated, valued and, above all, sanctioned. Because everyone deserves to be treated with respect, live with dignity; that no violation of human rights must be allowed, and that it must be denounced and fought against any kind of discrimination. And our criterion is that it is better to work on institutional discrimination from a cross-cutting and global perspective. And we presented our reviews from this line. Moreover, we have based ourselves on the very argument of SOS Racism, which says that racism is not limited to police abuse, but that discrimination is also produced in the field of justice, in the labour market, in access to housing and sanitation and in the centres of the oci, and it is necessary to act in front of this lack of equal treatment in a transversal way in order to eradicate it. And to the argument of SOS Racism would add to the municipal sphere, in which we find ourselves with some joints that apply discriminatory policies and encourage inequalities. We also cannot let go of the educational environment, in which it is difficult to address directly and explicitly the racist attitudes of some professional teachers, the administrative staff of the educational centres or of the same student – because this, moreover, is known in adolescence – and that racism is still makeup and addressing it in the schools between a generic make-up for the topic of cultural diversity, interculturality and all that. Moreover, in the motion addressed to Parliament on 18 June on discrimination, it became clear that institutional discrimination affecting migrant and racial persons is not only a matter for the police, but it is a structural issue at different levels, which prevents people in our society from fully exercising their rights with dignity, because their rights are not guaranteed, because of a law of foreign policy inspired by well-arrested and segregated institutional racism, which is the origin of all problems of social inequality, because their rights are not guaranteed, because of a law of foreign law that is based on a well-arrested and segregative institutional racism, which is the source of all the problems of social inequality that we live in today's legal system; and because of a law of international law that is produced by a person who is not a citizen, who is a member of the European Parliament, and who is a member of the European Parliament. And with this benefit to congratulate the Mexican Government, which ratified this week this Convention 189, and also to the issue of the existence of labour exploitation, as is the flagrant case, today, of the topic of timers, and at the level of municipalities that do not complete and do not allow people to walk in some municipalities where they reside, etc. And the list of discriminations at the institutional level is very wide. And this must also be borne in mind that the action of the Government of Catalonia is conditioned by the competitions that it holds and that it has a limited influence in many areas, especially for regularization. But, despite this, it can help to establish a model of approach and action from different departments having a key role in the fight against racism and, above all, from the Department of Interior. And with regard to this motion for a resolution, although we have not accepted the points that make reference to the need to address the issue of institutional racism in its entirety, for a better number of our services at all levels, we would vote in favour of it, with the view that in the deployment of the Law on Non-Discrimination the issue of racism should be considered in all institutional areas, and not just insecurities, which is a bit more in the area of discrimination. Let us consider, and as I said on other occasions, with regard to the actions of the security bodies, that we cannot make a general sentence, because we know perfectly well that all, let us say, general complaint is also discrimination, and we do not want to discriminate against the police. But neither can we look at the other side and deny the existence and the evidence of some racist and abusive police actions, which abuse and asset, and which must be contemplated and punished with force. We know that some of the actions that are produced from the police body, both in the public sphere and, above all, in the private security sphere, are of great concern. I think we need to focus attention on private security, because that's where the concern resides, because the images coming from the meters and so on, basically are private security and they're lame. I can't stay passius. That is why the creation of this committee of inquiry must be seen in a positive way, because in a democratic society all institutional spheres must be a miracle and a reflection of the society we want, and because the perspective of social justice, respect and dignity must permeate all our public policies, and because it is necessary to strengthen equality and social cohesion. Moreover, because the mission and responsibility of our Government, above all of our security, is to ensure the perception of security and tranquillity of all citizens, according to the international agreements on security and human rights. I think that the police have to worry about the opinion of the citizens of the services they offer and treat everyone equally, regardless of colour, origin of origin, creeds, social status, sexual orientation and gender. They must free themselves from their prejudices and stereotypes in relation to diversity, which in fact we all have, we all have prejudices and stereotypes, and anyone must feel protected by the police, and not violate their right to protection. We cannot deny that the identifications are part of the task of some professional of the police bodies, but they must seek to make the identifications with the highest possible quality, avoiding arbitrariness, because depending on how things are managed we will have one future or another. Therefore, it is an exercise of great responsibility that must be carried out effectively and efficiently. And when I refer to this topic..., it's a topic I've worked on for many years, the subject of police identifications, especially from the UNESCO Centre, in collaboration with the Department of the Interior itself, which was a project that is called Stepsss, and at the time the Department of the Interior had a lot of awareness about this case, about this social front, and there was all the media to address it. At the level of security professionals, the pros and cons that are intended to ensure that anyone who lives in Catalonia trusts in his or her police force must be set up. They must be old enough to guarantee and ensure access to all services that review internal work procedures, always trying to work from a perspective of philosophy and self-criticism and continuous improvement. I insist on the self-criticism of continued improvement. And that from time to time, as today, it has to stop to reflect and plant, in the realm of security management, which is what they do badly, how they should be done and what they are at stake. Because police organization is a key part of maintaining security, social security, cohesion and good coexistence, and, as a democratic institution, it has as its mission the protection of rights and freedoms. And this requires an institutionally responsible and active attitude [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] for what makes this defense – I finish, president – from a responsible and constructive attitude. It is necessary to equip the elements of security with tools and decisive instruments to safeguard the dignity of people and the defence of human rights, to manage a society that is now diverse, plural, and to build from the proper scope of responsibility..., to face the social challenges of the future, such as coexistence, social cohesion and the guarantee of a fair and generous society with all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position himself has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Lord David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.209.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, in the past ordinary plenary, there was a debate, precisely on the Republican Left, in which he was talking about racism, and we told them that they would always stand by each other to defend all the fundamental rights; and, obviously, we are still maintaining it. Discrimination, xenophobia, racism, are a sham that we have to make disappear all folds, and therefore in all policies that vagrantly address these issues, so we are there. We know that this is not an easy task, because many things need to be changed, but we have a duty to work together to end these attitudes that would contain any fundamental right, and also not to fall into any kind of stereotyping and harm. Therefore, we will support the creation of this committee and, at the same time, we hope that it will actually serve to put all the questions on the table; we have already said so in the past Ple, all the questions on the table. Because the unjustifiable things cannot be justified, they come from the side that comes. To combat racism and to combat xenophobia, compromise and perseverance are needed in defending the universal principles of people's equality. In the same way that I believe it will be a good thing for this committee to be able to listen to every possible opinion so that it can have a broader and broader view and consist of respect. We must achieve, effectively, an equal society, which does not differ by race, sex, identity or ideology, as precisely as the Constitution, our Constitution, the Spanish Constitution establishes. And in Catalonia we have work to do, effectively, because we have cases of discrimination: of LGTBIphobia, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, Gypsyphobia, linguistic discrimination... Indeed, we have a lot of work to do. And that's why it's necessary for all folds, therefore, to condemn any type of discrimination. And today I take advantage again of the fact that I am in this faristol to explicitly ask the Republican Left to condemn the words of some of its leaders or ex-directors, such as Rossell and Vilar, such as Herbert Barrera, such as Oriol Junqueras, who have statements, say, little luck and counter the precise object of this young man, of this commission that you propose. And, therefore, it is necessary, we believe it necessary that you condemn these words, these writings. Will they do it? If they want to be credible, they have to. Otherwise, it will be clear that they only want to do things in front of the gallery. Will they also condemn, for example, the words of Mr Torra, who have already been condemned for racism for the main parties of the European Parliament? Will they condemn the words of Congresswoman Anna Erra, who said textually that she had to put aside the habit of speaking in castle to all those people who, because of their physical appearance or their name, did not seem Catalan? Will they condemn, for example, the words of the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mrs. Núria de Gispert, who with all an ostentation of xenophobic statements sent to the one who was then in charge of the opposition, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, to return to Cadis? By the way, today itself, this chamber has returned to be a scener of utterly regrettable expressions. The Culture Counsellor does not only believe that it is speaking Spanish mass on TV3, but also now believes that it is speaking Spanish mass in this Parliament of Catalonia. A shame that proves the linguistic supremacism of a worthy signer of the manifesto Koiné. And I tell you one thing: from Ciutadans we will not let the castle be persecuted nor that the defense of the català is in the hands of radical separatism. And we won't let anyone get close to equality and the fight of racism, because this is a fight of all folds. Linguistic supremacism is also a form of racism. And you condemn him? No, we saw it this morning, you're doing it by applauding him. If you really want to combat any type of discrimination, you don't need to whitewash counter-attitudes to people's equality. Can't talk about DNA bulls or genetic differences between Catalans and Spaniards and then create 'equalities', without retracting and condemning aberrations like these. If we want to achieve a more free and inclusive society, we must be credible with our actions, but also with our parties. They show that they want to be with their fetuses. We will not achieve a fairer and more inclusive society, we will not achieve a fairer society if some believe that there are some higher collectivities. You are talking, in this motion for a resolution, about institutional and structural racism trying to target the state's security forces and bodies, including the squadrons and the local police, and that is to start with a little bit of this commission. Any action contrary to existing protocols and to guarantee the rights of all citizens must, of course, be pursued and punished; but we cannot generalize cases with the work due to the end for our police. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, like that of the Civil Guard, that of the National Police, the ones of the local police, deserves the recognition of the citizenry, to which it serves and protects according to which they precisely establish the Spanish Constitution, the State of autonomy and the different laws in force, which does not mean, in effect, that there can be no agents who are not at the height of the dignity of the different bodies; but the vast majority of the agents develop their task with respect to our rights and our freedoms. I insist, I think this deserves the recognition of all our Members and Members. That is why we will not oppose the creation of this committee, for we deny the major, that there is widespread institutional racism. And that's not only not true, but it's profoundly unfair; we believe it that way, honestly. What would not be reasonable is to turn this commission into a task to the totality of our institutions, among other things, because so the only thing we will achieve is that our bodies and security forces feel unmanageable. Therefore, we encourage the rest of the groups to take up this issue with a construction and non-liquidationist tarann. We are in times of reconstruction, all of you know it, for which it is now more important than ever to be responsible and to have high eyesight. Let us go to this committee with the highest democratic demands, but also with respect and thanks to our bodies and security forces. And I end up going back to the beginning: to fight racism or any kind of discrimination, we'll find the first ones, I don't doubt it; but, if we do, let's stop any kind of partyism and be on the rise of what exactly this issue deserves. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.211.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Homo sapiens: we are a species of the order of the primates, within the family of the hominids, and there is no other race than this, despite the racism that actually exists. There's no other race than this, it's an undisputed biological fact. What we are is a species with a huge expression of phenotypic variety, huh? – the phenotype, as you all know, is the expression of the genotype that has to do with environmental factors. And yes, indeed, we have a huge variety of phenotypic expressions. But this does not respect the administrative situation of people who live with us, who share public spaces, who can perfectly share or not share with us. Therefore, from all points of view, it is discriminatory any act of a public power, also obviously of a police body, of a concrete police officer, which bases its action on the external expression of the genotype of someone, is to say, its phenotype, is based on the color of the skin, is based on any facial aspect, on the appearance in general or, even if it is not strictly based on the phenotype, as is sometimes the case with the fact that it comes from the Anglo-Saxon world, the 'ethnic profile', the 'ethnic or 'racial profiling', and even if it is based on the language that has been felt to be spoken to the person to whom the identification is specifically requested. I say that to the beginning, first, because I think it's worth sharing some basic concepts that we should all agree on. Second, because this concept, which is widely used, that of the ethnic profile, is useful, and that's why it's still used, but I don't think it's just copied the size of what we're really talking about. Because if we're talking about ethnicity, if we're talking about ethnicity in terms of ethnography, we're going into quite a complex land, huh? There are authors who relate ethnicity to the belief of a group of people – a belief pertaining to a subject element – who share a certain origin, certain ancestors, who have shared a certain succession of historical events, even though not necessarily all people who may self-identify as belonging to that ethnic group have shared, nor their ancestors have shared or those historical events nor necessarily that language, etc. Therefore, what we are actually talking about is that there are acts of public power, in this case, if we are specifically talking about identifications by reason of the appearance of the identified person, which have to do with the phenotype of the person. And, therefore, it is absolutely contrary to all those dispositions that exist, both here and in many other countries around us, you would contain any kind of discrimination. They are known in Article 14 of the Constitution, for example, but obviously also in the international texts signed by Spain. It's also true... I'm saying this because it was mentioned and it's very interesting the study that has taken place since the campaign. "You seem to stop me, but I think it's important to point out that this is not a specific problem, in the sense of the Catalan society; it's obviously shared with the Spanish society, but it's shared, I think, and I don't think it's distressed to say that it's shared with the group of companies that belong to what has ever been said to be the global north, isn't it? , even though they are not necessarily located in the geographic north. In all these societies there are ethnic profiling problems in various actions, not just in police identifications, but for example there are a lot of studies on the different application of the right in decisions, let's say, from criminal jurisprudence, for example to the United States, huh? ; and obviously who is more expert than I am in the matter sure that I know other studies in other states, and also with other legal systems, because we are already talking about the Anglo-Saxon system, which is different from our continental system, but in any case, there are also differences here. And, obviously, I believe that, as was said by the Member who presented the initiative, racism actually permeates society's conjunction, and even in attitudes, let's say, do not be aware by the citizens and the citizens and attitudes of the process of public power towards people who may appear to be outside, so this is produced. What effects does this have on our coexistence? , which I think is one of the questions worth addressing. And in this sense, the creation of a committee of study, the duration of the legislature, of course it is of interest, because we can feel the opinion of entities, organizations, plataforms and organizations that have promoted these campaigns; also, I hope, opinions of academics, institutional officials, and also police officials. And with that, I hope, we can make a series of recommendations and proposals. Even though I have to say that I think that it feels like it's a known problem, about which I am convinced that there is already enough academic literature to respect and that I am sure that some indicators have Catalonia, it is because who promoted it is one of the groups that forms part of the Government, perhaps out of the question that, apart from what the Parliament can do, the Government places more on its side to address some of these issues as a matter of urgency. Because we have to assume that there are no instructions that are given to the Mosso d'Esquadra that explicitly invite you to make this ethnic profile. If it were that way, it would be, I think, hard, right? We have to assume it's not like that, but in change, in fact, we see that this is happening. Some data have been brought to you by the same Member of Parliament, Mr Wagensberg, who I believe has not quoted – perhaps he has, he will already correct me – but who comes from the same study of the campaign« Stop stopping me, call out the attention powerfully. It is true that it is done on the basis of the demonstrations of the people interviewed, but of the people interviewed with an appearance that today is said, with this terminology that each time was imposing more, "racialized, eh? , he asks how many times have they been stuck or stuck in the street to be identified, and 89_percent of the people interviewed say that more than fifteen times in a year, in the later year. Let us imagine the impact it has on this, on how we perceive its situation in our society, people who are constantly tired of asking for identification, who can, of course, be perfectly so many people who have Spanish nationality, like people who are still communities, like people who have a temporary or permanent residence permit in Spain and, therefore, have their administrative situation perfectly in order. What's wrong with that? So that there's a part of our citizenship, a part of the community citizenship that you live with us and a part of our lives that without having nationality they have their residence here fixed that they are permanently treated like they are, huh? As permanently aliens to the community, so to speak, aliens to our society, permanently treated as if they were under suspicion, right? And I think that this is a hugely corrosive effect on our coexistence, enormously worrying about the development of a society that wants to be open, plural and democratic and that bases the construction of the political community on the concept of citizenship and on the values and systems of functioning that we fix on the laws – in the Statute, in the Constitution – and not on, let's say, any phenotypical or cultural manifestation or language or any other, but on that basis. And, therefore, I think it's a phenomenon that I can fight. And, of course, even though the phenomenon of racism is wider, we do not want to fail to say that it seems good to be able to address a specific situation, such as this, in the field of public or private security. Because sometimes it's true that trees don't let you see the forest, but sometimes it's also true that complexity, the vastness of a problem makes some people use it as a pretext not to address a specific problem that could be addressed and respected that they might be looking for solutions. And, therefore, it seems good to us that you respect this by looking into it. But, remember, the government is also there, and the government could already act on it, because it's a very well-known phenomenon and it's been going on for years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.213.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, there have been some questions that are certainly obvious, but it's important that we repeat, right? : that we live in a society that is structurally racist and that, therefore, as well as ourselves, as legislative power, therefore, we take action. And I want to begin, therefore, by thanking Mr Wagensberg and his group for having promoted this initiative, and also honesty, as a group that supports the Government, to demand the compliment of parliamentary mandates, because we have already approved different parliamentary mandates in this sense, and in others, man, "for a little seeing the Government that you say you do not intend to fulfill them. In any case, like Members and Members, we believe that we have to settle down. Racism, as I said, I think it is one of the main problems we have today in our country and in the world; it is expressed in very different forms, and it has very significant social consequences. In the United States, just because you're black, you've got more chances of getting to prison than you do of going through college; and it's data that really, therefore, "knock and we'll have to see how they impact here. But institutional responses are also not the same in every place. In the United States, George Floyd's killers were immediately expelled from the police. Here at our house we have seen with those agents who have provoked a few days ago, or we have known a brutal racist aggression, so it is not suspected either of me or of work. We know that they are different realities, but they are not as simple as Parliament has demanded. In any case, institutional racism does not have to do with the processes of migration and the construction of societies every time more diverse for what it does to the origin of its citizens, such as ours, and as someone wants us to believe, with a certain willingness to normalize the phenomenon, because it goes all the way, because we are diverse and therefore it seems that it is normal that racism exists. Institutional racism is the expression of how public authorities install and reproduce a social hierarchy on a racial basis; this is institutional racism. And it is true that racism is a structural sacre to our society, that we see it, as it is said in the motion for a resolution, in the labour market, that we see it in access to housing, that we see it in access to the centres of oci... A sacre that we also see in the criminalization of the times of the Segria these days or with the criminalization of minors not accompanied. But we also see it in our institutions, and it is important that we recognize it, analyze it, and take bold and drastic solutions to deal with it. And when we talk about institutions, we talk about justice, we talk about sanitation, we talk about education and, above all, as it is manifested in this proposal for the creation of a committee, we talk about civic security, because this is also where we have seen harder cases, both in the public and in the private, harder and more worrying ones that we cannot relativize. Look, I'm pleased that the current commissioner in charge of the Squadron Mosses has acknowledged that there is an ethnic bias in police identifications, something that was obvious and supported by empirical data, such as what is shown through the study of SOS Racisme and which are specified in this motion for a resolution, right? : that 54_percent of the identifications are addressed to foreign persons, when these only represent 13.7_percent of the population. Therefore, an evidence that only a few weeks ago was recognized by the commissar at the head of the Squadron Mosses. But it's only a few months ago, in the wake of the Barcelona and Cambrils Research Committee, asking us, isn't it? , on the processes of radicalization, so I myself formulated to various leaders of the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron S. And all of the staff leaders who passed through there, among whom were the previous commissioners in charge and many others, so they all answered the same question. And his answer, isn't it? When we asked them to have data and to do so... they strongly replied that there was no ethnic link in the identifications to the Mosso d'Esquadra. And now it turns out, a few weeks later, we've agreed to it. Just what happened is that we recognized it, and so, so, it's about time, and we think it's a first step. Now, as I said, recognizing it is not enough: not to relativize it and to take action. And in this sense we can't avoid responsibility, can we? , saying that this is a cross-cutting issue for all the police, that it goes all the way and that, therefore, we do not take forceful measures, such as should be taken in the case of the Bages d'ara a few weeks ago. And that brings me to a couple of more thoughts. The first, as I said, is whether it will complement the Department of the Interior with the conclusions that arose from this commission; and it is a matter that concerns us, which we are seeing recently. And the second, too, is a reflection addressed to the proposing group, to the driving group of the motion for a resolution, and to which, as I said, I would like to thank the initiative, and we believe that it is very necessary to make this study commission, but we do also encourage them to reflect until their parliamentary group, therefore, continues to gather a government with an Interior Council filled with cases of police abuse, not only with questions of police racism, but with many other questions. And we believe that the case of the Bages should be the gout that makes the gout wear, because it is a gout that adds to the case of extrajudicial denunciations in which the Mossos have collaborated with companies like Desokupa, to the abuse of force during the mobilizations of October 19, to the rise of the agent sentenced for the displacement of the square in Catalonia of 15-M, or to the repeated cases of identification by racial profile, before which the answer was impunity. And we think that this, so, no longer hangs up. And that brings me to the last question, which is actually, so, as Congressman Pedret also said, isn't it? , we believe that this specific committee focused on this issue, but we believe that an important element that will also be addressed in this committee, that will be dealt with, are the mechanisms of control, evaluation and sanctioning of the Squad Ways so that this situation of impunity can be resolved when these types of questions occur, which, as we say, are not cases. We are aware that this went further than this committee, and therefore we would place all of you in a position to give continuity to the motion for a resolution adopted at the end of plenary, on the proposal of the CUP, on the creation of an investigation committee on internal control mechanisms, and also on the evaluation of independent mechanisms to review the public order model. Therefore, we do not stay here, we have this committee of study, which is absolutely necessary, but we are still aware that we have a much bigger problem for our police, that it is a problem of police abuse, of abuse of force, that it is not only given in isolated cases, and that this must be answered with internal control mechanisms as, we understand, also with independent mechanisms. And, therefore, let's get to work, investigate what model of public order we have and what model we have of control mechanisms for our police, because we understand that it is urgent to approach better, to address structural and profound reforms in this sense. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.214.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.215.0	Good afternoon, Members, Members, President..., and a great deal that there is no member of the Government, and especially of the Department of Interior and Councillor Miquel Buch, to which we begin our intervention in relation to this proposal for the creation of the study committee on institutional and structural racism demanding that I complete what Parliament is demanding and what Parliament is voting on. The contempt of this chamber and the emptiness of sovereignty are also responsible for this government, not only in this respect, and it is something that must be reflected on by all of us. Because the mountain of incomplete motions and motions for resolutions for this government is wounded, and the emptiness of this Parliament when we are talking precisely about sovereignty too. On institutional racism, obviously, we will support this commission. The Member Ruben Wagensberg also said, we have the feeling that we may not be able to give him much recourse in time and in the political context in which we find ourselves, in which we see ourselves more at the end of the legislature than not with enough time to do these tasks, but we wish that we can also undertake the task of investigating the question, of institutional racism in this country, rigorously and with enough time. Institutional racism is racism that is based on the practice and ordinary functioning of an institution, and it is clear that in this institution, in these institutions, public institutions, in their different levels, both at the municipal level and at the level of the Generality's security forces and bodies, there is a racist practice – it has already been mentioned – and, therefore, we subscribe to many of the interventions that have been put on the table. And in the Spanish State, moreover, the question of institutional racism is getting worse. The Spanish State acts as the southern border of Europe fortally applying with iron hand the migration policies that systematically assassinate people on the southern border. We will not forget either Tarajal or the Paster Systematics trying to arrive in Europe despite the Frontex, the Civil Guard; migration policies that deprive freedom in ICES. And I've said it many times, I've said it many times since this Faristol: it's not a question of charity or an ethical question, it's a question of fundamental rights, it's: if all people in this country, or in all the countries of the world, we have access to the same rights. The very existence of ICES is a contradiction with the fundamental rights, creating a category of people who are neither citizens nor citizens, who may end up deprived of freedom in order to commit administrative misconduct. We have already said this many times, and this Parliament has manifested itself a lot about this issue. But the reality is also hard, because we didn't get out, to abolish the existence of CIS. Migration policies that deport with convenient multimillionaires with private companies following protocols that allow sedation and physical containment, this is also the Spanish State. In this European brand of strong Europe, there is no room for human rights or just and guaranteed migration policies. The same month the Spanish State joined the European Union approved the 1985 Foreign Law. And this European Union, supposedly the European Union of Rights, of Liberties, has stepped up its efforts to coordinate itself in the field of migration with common policies and agencies such as the Frontex or agreements with third parties, such as Turkey or Libya, which never have human rights as a minimum requirement, but Europe has already looked at another issue. The foreign law is totally, as I said, incompatible with a question of rights. But we have also said it many times in this Faristol, and we want to insist on it: to begin to transform a reality... – I do not like to talk about "a phenomenon or a sacra" – a structural reality of racism, to take into account that the legal construction of irregularity is linked to the fundamental role that migrant people play in a low-productivity economy that requires the unqualified work of high intensity: less rights of workers and workers, the greater benefits of entrepreneurs. I suppose in this you have to resonate something: the situation that is seen today is not only to put Maresme, Huelva and Almeria; as it is being used, it is after all a utilitarian practice about the lives of migrant workers. I have also said that since the Generality and since its institutions we have reviewed, I insist, we have said many times, the practices of institutional racism in our own countries, not just those of the Mossos – which we insist on suspending the six steps that racist violence against a Baghdad is perpetrated –, but I also need to review the protocols, such as the Proderai, which stigmatize people for their beliefs; the proofs of being young that they arrive in our country. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – and, too, from a perspective of salvation, access to rights. We are insisting, today, on a migrant woman who is pregnant and wants to exercise the right to abortion, despite the fact that this Parliament has legislated on public and universal salvation for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperança García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.217.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Mr d'Esquerra Republicana, do you really claim that we donate..., that we support the creation of this commission on police racism and that we miss the dignity of an entire Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra for its impulses of revenge against its governing partners? Are you really asking this camera? Is the institutional respect of a group, the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra, really worth so little during the crisis of this pandemic, a body that mostly acts in a pulsate and respectful way for a – one – case in the Bages that is already being investigated internally and also judicially? You raise this proposal, among other issues, for your impulses of revenge against your governing partners. And, look, security is a very serious matter; it cannot be strained by exceptionality, that is, by turning a case into a category, nor by the pressures or tensions or difficulties that two partners are going through in a failed government and in a legislature that is about to end. The wake of public opinion that has been generated as a result of events in the United States by the George Floyd case..., we certainly fully agree to reject actions such as those that occurred there. But look, that wave of public opinion is not going to change the meaning of our vote. Firstly, because the actions of the police forces in Spain, including Catalonia, have nothing to do with the United States. Secondly, because racism, it is true, is present in our society, but not only in the police forces, in all areas. And, therefore, if we focus only on the policeman, who is the object of this commission that is requested, a drop does not make sea. It is serious, yes; it is unjustifiable, yes; but there are already proceedings against the agents concerned. Possible bad practices have guarantees of judicial protection and serious and serious administrative consequences, through a procedure and an internal control mechanism that the police forces themselves have, including that of the Mossos. A third element for which we are not going to change our sense of vote is because we do not share the ideological basis of this proposal. We do not share it because it responds to a very repeated mantra, which we have always denied from here, and it is one: the judges do not pursue, two: the police do not mistreat. And less so as you report in this request. Do you know how many habeas corpus the detainees present after a guard of detainees? More than 30_per_cent. A habeas corpus means that a person has been subjected to illegal detention. Do you know how many prosper? Not 30_per_cent, not much less; they do not reach 8_per_cent, because not everything is illegal detentions, because not all data can be taken from the opinion of the affected person. Not all the opinions of those affected become a manifest reality. And, look, we could get carried away by the wave of political correction that invades everything, but we're not going to do it. True, we are a small parliamentary group, they have already seen us up there, but, nevertheless, "the principles are not negotiated. And this phrase is not mine, this phrase is from the recently deceased Julio Anguita. The principles are not negotiated. If you want to fight the battle with your government partner, do it. But don't damage the institutions, don't damage the dignity of the Mossos d'Esquadra too. Not just because it's not fair, but because it's dangerous. And so you will not present yourself in front of the electorate as a party capable of taking over the reins of a future government in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, to position himself on the exams, it's time for Mr Ruben Wagensberg to return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.219.0	Thank you, President. Well, no wonder Tarajal's People's Party was left alone in this vote voting against it. For the rest, thank everyone and, therefore, also the favorable vote. I agree with Congresswoman Natalia Sànchez that it's such a shame that the Interior Councilman isn't here today. The work, I suppose, expected of any Member, despite being a member of a party that supports the Government, is that you also tax this Government and, therefore, we hope that the mandate, the mandates..., the conclusions of this study committee will be accepted and implemented by the Government. Mr. Mejía, we don't set the safety nets on the target, we put them in the center, because we believe that the best defense of any institution or of any safety net is prosecution for its best. And you, the truth is that you've gone well, you've gone well until you've tried to equate and, therefore, banish and, even more so, devote more time to the hard discriminations that certain collectivities suffer with a supposed supremacyism on the part of those who historically, besides, are the ones who have rejected discrimination, repression, prohibition of their language, and not once but repeatedly in this country. What a way to turn the trout and what a way to trivialize it. Finally, let us reiterate our commitment to end this work, despite the fact that the legislature ended before the work of this committee, and also to approve and implement parliamentary mandates. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. Yeah? Tell me, Mr. Mejía, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.221.0	For allusions. Mr. Wagensberg...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.222.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.223.0	Thank you. Mr. Wagensberg spoke again, reiterated another time, spoke of the Catalan language as its language. I insist, the Catalan language is not its language nor the language of the separatists, but it is the language of all Catalans, which I made clear to them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.224.0	Let's go to the next point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, Congressman, because if we don't get into a debate. You've already had the opportunity to intervene. [[Question to the Government on general policy and country priorities]] [[300-00281/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day that is the inquiry to the Government on the general policy and priorities of the country, an inquiry submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Creed Constituent. To defend her, the honourable Member has the word Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.225.0	Good afternoon again, deputies and deputies. Good afternoon, Vice President Aragonès. The impact of the Covid on our lives is undeniable. I am not saying anything again, but it is also true that the years of public policies, based on the neoliberal reception, have determined how we are experiencing this crisis and how we are dying in this health crisis. As David Harvey says, forty years of neoliberalism have left the public fully exposed and unprepared to face a public health crisis of this class. Vice-President, from our point of view, from the crisis of the coronavirus, we can express four certainties on which the CUP would like to ask him. The first: the health crisis has and will have serious impacts on the economy, society and health, and will affect to a greater extent the most vulnerable working class and, especially, women and migrant people. Second question: this crisis was an avoidable crisis, or it could have been manageable, if it had not been for the effects of the neoliberal policies that I cited at the beginning of my intervention and that you have also applied. The states – the third question – appear reinforced in their role of instruments of guarantee of order, and as important bulwarks for the guarantee of systemic functioning, both in the question of economic intervention as in public health, and also, as we have seen, in social control. And the fourth question is, it's going to be the way it used to be. Or better said, the supposed normality prior to the Covid crisis will not return. And so we refuse to buy them the almost naïve mark, which does not care about the absurd, the mark of reconstruction, because we understand that the bases on which to rebuild were already very, very unequal and in systemic crisis. Vice-President, in the last question that we asked you, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, you said to us, and I quote literally: "Always, in this Parliament, at the time of the debates I have asked: we always value every decision we make if it leaves us better than we were yesterday or leaves us the same or worse than we were yesterday. I'm closing the date. And today, the CUP asks us this question; we ask ourselves this question about its government: the country is better or worse than when you came in to rule? And the answer, from our point of view, is clear: today the country is worse than when they arrived, when you arrived at the government. And we ask him: you..., vice president, what is your opinion? You think we're better or worse than when the legislature started? Have your government's policies been enough to combat inequalities, the poor and the poor wage earner? One of the governments, plus, by the way, the more atomized in the history of this country. Today, I say, the country is worse than when the legislature began; the people, the workers and workers of this country are more vulnerable. They are under the yoke of the poor extremes and the poor invisibles, and today many families have more difficulties to reach the end of the month, more difficulties to pay bills and to pay the loguers and mortgages, and many more difficulties to guarantee three mats a day to the children. Don't tell us that the CUP is used to raise very simple questions: pa, sotres and work for everyone. This is our utopia. And that's what we're asking him about. Your government, has it done enough to guarantee pa, strenght and work for everyone? A country closed by inequality, with a 25_percent of the population in a poor situation while the great fortunes continue to get richer. About the work. Every day I get more precarious and dangerous. In the last few weeks we carry two fatal accidents to Sallent's mine, and, today, we must regret the death of an Iqoxe worker falling for the drilling of a mountain. Our deepest condolences to the families and friends of all these workers. And let's take advantage, as we're talking about work, of the fact that the president of the generality this morning at the control session has not answered us, perhaps you will answer us. We want to ask him about the situation he saw in the Segria and, concretely, about the capture of his Government, and concretely about the departments of Labour and Agriculture in relation to which the same social services of the Payia de Lleida find, that almost half of the stays to the Pavellos of the Camps Elisis or in other areas or in other municipalities of the Segria have contracts in force in the fruit campaign. Therefore, what it means..., whether they live on the road or are on the pavements of the Elisis Camps, means that there are entrepreneurs who are not fulfilling the appropriate collection. What did your government do? What have the Departments of Labour and Agriculture done to prevent this situation? We continue to do this rest and look back on the action of your government, from a perspective of Medi Ambient, in a context where the climate emerges every day gets worse, in a context where social movements have shown and planted face on the need to deploy public policies of struggle against the climate emergence, what we have seen is that your government will be the government that has incomplete one of the most pioneering climate change laws that has existed in Europe. And that's why we're asking, specifically to you, since you're the most responsible for the tax policy of the Government of Catalonia, why haven't the taxes, two of the taxes, that the same law indicated that they were to be deployed before the end of 2019? I'm talking about taxes on contaminating economic activities and big ships. Why didn't they deploy it? And we could go on. Catalonia continues to captivate the ranquing of shame: sixty denunciations diaris, a public park of habitat that does not rise to 2_per_cent, difficult problems of poor energy. And we also ask him, in relation to shortcomings and deficiencies in access to housing, that we did not remember again that we did not support his decree on the regulation of loguers, because he knows perfectly well that they did not because social movements were the ones that warned us that this decree was not enough, and that it did not take into account the economic capacity of the population; and we knew perfectly well that those who were less content with this decree were the same APIs. All the problems and all the policies that I'm listing are structural issues that lie ahead of Covid. And when I asked you, we're better or worse, I want... I'd like you to take these questions into account; it's questions, inequalities and structural problems in this country that Covid has come to make worse. We are of the opinion that the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left of the 12th Legislature has been a grey government, worryingly opaque and very disappointing to the popular classes of this country, both from the independence perspective as from social aspirations and from access to the right. A government, we have said many times, very divided, with the councils each acting for their own band, without independent strategy, without concrete action in the defence of rights, without conviction in the guarantee of universal public services; a government without courage in the struggle against the climate emergency, as demonstrated by the failure, I insist, of the Climate Change Law. A government and a legislature that has been marked, and we also want to ask him about this, because of the disagreements between Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia, but that – in this they did agree – they agreed 523 under other charges, sharing 36_million euros per year to play the game of the falls. Besides, it's a mathematical division, and they've distributed the charges and the ass mathematically. So, as you know, and as you see, a government arrival that will be remembered for the shame of being a particular accusation in the repression against anti-feixists, in the repression against feminists and in the repression against independenceists; a government of order that we have the impression that you want to represent perfection. It gave the principle of my intervention that we have found that the states continue to have powerful instruments, surely the most solid instruments to deal with complex and massive social problems as we are living. In our case, in the Catalan case, the crisis has not only put the question on the table, but also the practically – practically – total inopportunity of the autonomous government. In any case, the Covid crisis does not leave or can leave the struggle for independence in one _second place, but what it does is to clarify how far the struggle for independence can only be the other face of a struggle currency against a certain economic and social model, and the dominant classes to which it serves. From this perspective, we in this Parliament, during these two years and a half – and I have already finished – have made a lot of talk about sovereignty, because we understand that it is a question of social justice and of pure and hard pragmatism. Because having sovereignty means controlling strategic services, and that's not an option but we understand that it's a need. We could spend hours analyzing his government's work, but, as I say, we also want to talk about everything we've proposed to the CUP, because they get used to it, especially government groups, saying that the CUP is the no, but I think you've made us more of ourselves and our proposals than we have of yours. We have been a force insisting and persevering in the defense of public servants, and it knows very well, and in this task we have experienced the great disappointment of seeing a left-wing party align more often with the right than not with the UPC. How could Republican Left have voted more with Citizens than with the CUP? It's hard for us to hear, and for us it's frustration, and we want to express it. The CUP has offered from the creation of a public bank to a minimum interprofessional group of workers providing outsourced public services, the internalisation of the SEM, the creation of a public pharmaceutical company, and many other proposals that are in the logic of having a fully feminist, fully ecological society, and where absolutely no one is left behind, and the response of this Government has always been a non-round one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.226.0	Congresswoman, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.227.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.228.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.229.0	Thank you very much, President. My first words are to add to the condol, not only of the dead person today in this subcontracted company for Iqoxe, in a work accident at the Tarragona plant, but also, obviously, for the two workers of the ICL al Bages mines. My condolences to his families, as in the case... in one case I had the opportunity to carry it directly to the pairs of one of the dead workers. Before the honourable Member's question, I hope that she will present a motion for a summary of the parliamentary term on behalf of the CUP, because it seems that this question was very intended to present a motion of these characteristics, therefore, in which they have already been exposed to a good part of what will surely be her electoral programme, because she has come to make a motion as a parliamentary term, and I know that there are still no calls for elections, right? He left, started with four observations. I agree, the Covid has accentuated inequalities, yes. When they tell us that the Covid does not understand ideology, yes, the Covid has affected in a different way the sectors of our country that are most precarious, that are basically the ones that are also most dedicated to essential services. It has also affected differently from habitat conditions. It's not the same as having faced confinement with an ample habitation that doesn't, so with many more people living in a six-foot pea. So obviously it's affected. Not affected in the same way, the Covid, the women, precisely for the gender roles in many of the tasks of the lar, than the men. Nor has it affected the same way, the Covid, the women, who occupy in essential sectors more places of work than men, and many times more precarious. So I agree. According to what I agree with. On the other hand, the effects have been seen, not in the later years, but in the later decades of deregulation policies that have affected economic relations in labour relations. I agree. Many of these elements were already present and we already see the symptoms, and the Covid has accelerated some of these processes, and precisely because of this, public intervention is important to correct it. With the third point, I also agree. It has reinforced the role of the states, but in this sense it reinforces the conviction that we do not have to have a propi, of state, because the major public intervention in society and in the economy, which is that from a progressive position of the left we have always defended, in case only, does not imply policies against inequality. Because many times intervention in the economy, precisely, is done to strengthen some..., and here there are positions, and we see it in good part in governments with right-wing populations, in which the intervention that is done in the economy, and that the fan, is, precisely, to reinforce the inequalities that exist in society and to strengthen also determined, therefore, tendencies, in the long term, to favor certain sectors. Therefore, I agree with that. It's not true, and that Karl Polanyi made it very clear, it's not true that there is anyone here who doesn't intervene in the economy. Not to intervene is also a decision, not to intervene, not to act is also a decision. Therefore, obviously the market as we have known it, as in the institution, is also thanks to certain decisions that obviously have an ideological substrate. Four, nothing will ever be the way it was, surely. But I think we need to rebuild the country, not to return to an unequal country, but to make a better country, and, therefore, beyond the word that can be used, this country needs to be deplete, and we need to do it to make a better country, and we need to do it from the majority consensus with society, and we need to do it from the public institutions, from the democratic power. Why not do it... This country will be on the march, all societies are on the march, the question is if we intervene democratically, if we make the contribution from the point of view of economic development, from the measures in the field of administration, from the presuppositional point of view, if we do so, obviously, to correct inequalities, or it is set in the march accelerating inequalities. And, therefore, that's why we need a reconstruction plan for the country, an economic and social recovery plan, like we're working on the government. And he made use of an expression that in the debate with the honourable Member, therefore, he had served, and he said to me: "Is the country better or worse than when we entered the government? The country is better in these hands than with 155, so I don't have a doubt about it – so I don't have a doubt about it. Unless you think it's better to go back to the way we were before this government that was with 155, and I'm convinced that it's not – and I'm convinced it isn't – the CUP doesn't want to go back to 155. I'm convinced you don't. Therefore, in some of the aspects that you have placed on the table, I agree. I just think that what we have to do is to honestly pass them on. This government has continued to deploy and has continued to presumably provide guaranteed citizenship income, an important tool for fighting inequality. This government has proposed a Catalan minimum wage of reference, which incorporated in the assumptions, which you voted against, precisely in order to be able to progressively provide resources for public services in contract matters, for example, or in the same public administration to raise it. Obviously, there are things we can't do today at six o'clock in the morning, but to go gradually doing this by raising the minimum wage up to 1,200_euros. Because this is a very important policy, 1,239 euros, which is the calculation we made of the Catalan minimum wage of reference and which has positive effects. The increase in the minimum wage impacts much more on women than on men, precisely because of what we say about the essential sectors that are used to being precarious. Therefore, it is important to advance in minimum wage. In this very month, European institutions, in their reports on minimum wage, place Catalonia's proposal as an example of what they say in regionalization, but in any case territorialization of what is the cost of living of state minimum wage policies. So obviously we're already compromised. And it unfolded: we are better off with the guaranteed income of citizenship... – obviously, with the Covid, which has been a great impact – but the guaranteed income of citizenship is more deployed now than it was two years ago? Yeah, obviously. Do we have a tax system right now that it's been two years? Yeah. Do we have more salvation resources now than two years ago? Yeah. Do we have more education resources now than two years ago? Yeah. Is the college class going to be more fucked up this September than it was two years ago? Yeah. And that means putting resources to it, that means making decisions, that means moving forward. And obviously we'd like to do a lot of things at a time, but when you want to do a lot of things at a time, you just say you want to do it at a time, but don't just do it, and so somewhere to start. And I think we've started long enough. In environmental matters, we are one of the territories that we are in front of tax figures in the environmental field and we have to do so many times alone and many times fighting against a state that, through the Constitutional Court, has ended up severely limiting our skills and, therefore, the ability to demand with the law at hand the compliment of these taxes. He referred to the Climate Change Act, but he knows perfectly well that there has been a ruling from the Constitutional Court against climate change that conditions us, that we must be able to overcome, but that conditions us. Home, that the CUP talked about disagreements, when what they did was give support to President Torra's investiture and at the same time announce that they were going to the opposition, man, so I guess they're not the most suitable to talk about it, right? Nor is it the demagogic nature of the high authorities; that is to say, what we cannot claim is that there is political guidance in the decisions taken by the Administration and that there are no political leaders who will bring it to an end. I think it's a bad path. I think it's a bad way to report what it is..., so, what's close to a public direction because you're in front of it, unless we want to leave the public instruments that we only have on the basis of a functional criteria and that there's no public direction, because then, if you do that, you'd find that if you ever ruled the country, you wouldn't be able to act. Therefore, I believe that here we must take away the demagogic. Therefore, this government has been acting, in many respects we obviously have a lot of rights to do and it is not negligible the impact that the Covid is having, which will be a completely disruptive impact and here we will have to add a lot. And I'd like to be able to count with the CUP, so I can add it; I'd like to be able to count it. Obviously, therefore, the proposals also depend on the political and confidence that the ballot boxes have now attached to each ballot box, which they have attached to you and which they have attached to the groups that we are part of the Government. Therefore, willing to be able to talk to you about all these issues and to reach agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.230.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's a twist, again, the congresswoman. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.231.0	Now hearing you speak, Vice President, I thought that maybe you should have the people of Ciutadans right that maybe the government saw Matrix, because the data, which are objective, do draw a country that is worse. You have talked about legislative instruments, some better ones, some reforms that you have made – that if you can be interesting..., and that the CUP in this room, many of which you have said, have supported it – but you have not talked about the people; you have not talked about the job situation of the working classes, you have not talked about many of the questions that we are making us say that the country today is worse than when you arrived. There are some questions, I have tried to express them, which are structural and, obviously, the crisis of the Covid – which does not have its direct responsibility, obviously – has worsened. You spoke of basic income and precisely the question of guaranteed citizenship income was paradigmatic. The CUP first proposed that it change the form of management, the bureaucracy, with the idea that what we think should be a right is not converted into a race of obstacles, and it knows better than I, and all the Members here know, because we have debated the issue not one, but two and three times, that effectively the excess of bureaucracy makes what should be a right a race of obstacles. In addition, we have proposed that the term for your resolution be more flexible and that you can finally cover more situations and more collectivities. While we raised this, you have made a rule of development of guaranteed citizenship income that limits the right and the retail. Moreover, the UPC aspires to our utopia to deploy a basic universal income and we believe that it is now more necessary than ever. Maybe I don't fall for the morning sis, but we think it's more necessary than ever. Miri, Vice President, we are of the opinion that governments must be part of the solution and not part of the problem. And from an independentist perspective, from a social perspective, from a feminist perspective, we consider that you and Mr Quim Torra have been part of the problem of this country. And that also, in general terms – surely we can all take part in responsibility, but also the proportion of the escons that give us here also gives a proportion in responsibility – independence, with its pocket of government, has already lost credibility. The CUP wants to be part of the solution and, therefore, we do not agree with the misrepresentation that throughout the day has made the concept of "planned economy, a misrepresentation that we read as liberal misrepresentation. The CUP refers to "planned economy of a Marxist perspective. We want to decide what we need to produce as a company, which produces what we need to produce, how it distributes what it produces and how it finances this production. We need to move forward with a model of democratic and self-centered society, and leave behind this globalization that has done so much wrong for people. You also spoke about public intervention. He made me tremble a little, because the concept or the reading I make of his public intervention is that as long as the mouth of the Aragonese law was filled, it had to be served because IBEX 35 swallowed his hands of the public, but it turns out that to which they can award a contract to tell Ferrovial. This is his look at public intervention and we would like it not to be so, and we would like to be able to cooperate from a left-wing perspective, but it was not possible. This legislature has not given space to be able to do so from this perspective. He also spoke about... he spoke about the Catalan minimum wage, as some of the questions that from his point of view make the country better, but it is a while ago, in this very plenary session, they approved a decree, number 25, with an article number 3, which does not speak of the Catalan minimum wage for workers in the school and for workers who maintain the cures in the school, but what raises is the interprofessional minimum wage. They may have said a lot of things, but they don't, and it's in this sense that we analyze this legislature with a legislature that makes us worse than we were. Look, also..., I had never asked her, but obviously she had heard it and it must be because we have four deputies or because we have ideological and planning differences, we have the feeling that we are childish, or that our proposals place them in a place, therefore, out of reality. We are convinced that our proposals in the logic of planned economy, in the feminist logic and in the ecological logic are proposals that can transform the lives of the people of this country. And we don't want anyone to tell us that we were right, that we were right about the systemic inequality generated by the capitalist system, but one day we want to win and in this sense we will find a way to do it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I ended up asking him – and taking advantage of these seconds that the president will surely leave me – about the question that he has not answered with regard to the workers and workers of the season of fruit to Segrià. What did he do? What have their councils, the Labour and Agriculture Councils done to prevent this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.232.0	To answer again, the vice president has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.233.0	Thank you very much. I would like to start by defending what is the contrast of ideas and projects, and in any case, I would like this contrast to feel like a childishness. No, no, no, in any case, and so, if at some point it was like that, so, I'm not having a problem at all, because I think it's the contrast of projects, it's the contrast of ideas, and from here trying to find what the points are in common. I begin with the last question, in the realm of Segria. What have we done? We have more resources than ever before in the area of housing for time. What are we doing with the Labour Inspectorate? Act and continue to act. Obviously, the one that's... if there's going to be proceedings, I don't have the legal capacity to explain them here yet, but it's been and will continue to be. And it will continue to act, obviously, with the continuation of what is the fruit-harvest campaign, as it is moving also to other parts of the country, I am aware that the majority of the sector works correctly, but that, obviously, it must be very strong with those businesses, with those agricultural entrepreneurs who do not do so well. I therefore need to be blunt in these cases. Let's talk about the people, because you say, "We need to talk about the people. Yeah, we're talking about bressol schools, for example. These intangible assumptions that we approved, which you did not support – the recovery on the part of the Generality's co-responsibility in the financing of the Bressol schools. I think it's a step forward. It's better than not being as we were until we approved these assumptions. We are talking about the measures that we have been carrying out, for example, these past weeks, specific measures, concrete measures that we have also been carrying out here in Parliament. In the wine sector, for example, in order to avoid a fall in prices, especially by small producers, with more than 5 million aid to the wine sector, which had not been made so far, and we are women. Or help them, for example, to the maritime sector, which has also been affected in a very important way by restrictive measures during confinement. Or the measures, for example, in the area of the agri-food sector, of small producers who, with the closure of the inn channels, have seen as a good part of their products or who should have been lenght or left behind in the hands and, therefore, redirect a part of these to the people's food needs, precisely through social initiative organisations in this area. Or measures, for example, in the field of education, to ensure that it is the right of all children also to access education, and that it is not only a possibility for those children who are families who, by income, can take it. And, therefore, quadruple the scholarships in the educational sphere. All this... I'm talking about the last few weeks, just. Or the novelty of the help that today, with this decree of law that we have presented, we have been pushing with regard to the workers of the home and of the cures that are found in an irregular situation, because we believe that it is a sector that needs to be faced and it is one of the most important problems that we have, also, here in the country. Or, for example, what are the intervention services specialising in the field of male violence, in which we have duplicated these services in the country, and we have also done so thanks to some assumptions. To do all this..., and this is measures from the past weeks, but to do all this we need resources and we need assumptions. And we have to do this..., you have decided not to cooperate with it, not to reach an agreement..., and probably the responsibility for not having reached an agreement is mutual, I do not put all the responsibility to you, but you did not participate in supporting these assumptions, which allow us to do all this, as in the area of university taxes, or to recover a good share of..., or to overcome, in fact, the maximum expenditure, for example, in salvation or teaching, expenditure that had never been there. Therefore, I am convinced that in the rest of the questions we can very much agree with the Popular Unity Candidacy, I am not absolutely convinced. Now, we'll probably have to leave the ideological prejudices to a band. And I think that, in this sense, you who have made these ideological prejudices a sign of your action, and so on, to some of us, well-directed, I think you would also have to put it back together for your own parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-08-5702.234.0	All right. We will proceed to vote on all the points of this session that have been debated during this late. [[Decree of 22/2020 of 2 June, determining the competent bodies for the processing of penalties for breaches of the regulations of the state of alarm reported by different police units (continuation)]] [[203-00047/12]] The first point..., yeah? [[Pause.]] The first point that we would vote on is the 8th item on the agenda, which corresponds to Decree Law 22/2020 of 2 June, for which the competent bodies are determined to deal with sanctions for breaches of the regulations of the state of alarm denounced for the different police units. We vote, first of all, on the validation, therefore, of this decree. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 47 face-to-face and delegates and 18 telematics –, 4 against and 65 abstentions. It is now up to me to ask the House whether any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as a bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Decree of 21/2020 of 2 June on urgent economic, cultural and social measures (continuation)]] [[203-00045/12]] So let's proceed to vote on the new item on the agenda, which corresponds to Decree Law 21/2020 of June 2, urgent measures of cultural and social economic character. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree was approved by 65 votes to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents, against 69 abstentions. Some group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Therefore, we proceed to vote on the processing as the draft law of this Decree 21/2020. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, as there have been 5 votes in favour of this procedure, 73 against and 56 abstentions– 73, corresponding to 55 delegated and face-to-face votes and 18 telematics votes. [[Decree-Law No 25/2020 of 16 June of extraordinary social and fiscal and administrative measures (continuation)]] [[203-00050/12]] We now vote on the following point, which is the wish, and which correspond to Decree Law 25/2020 of June 16, extraordinary measures in social and fiscal and administrative matters. The vote begins. This decree was validated by 82 votes to four, with 48 abstentions. Anyway, I'm asking the chamber if any group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? So we are voting now on the proposal to proceed with this bill. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 21 votes in favour of this procedure, 73 against – correspondents to 55 face-to-face and delegates and 18 telematics – and 40 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 26/2020 of 23 June of extraordinary measures in the field of health and administration (continuation)]] [[203-00051/12]] We now vote on the one-off point, which corresponds to Decree Law 26/2020 of 23 June of extraordinary measures in health and administrative matters. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics –, 29 against, 40 abstentions. Some group wants to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? So we vote for processing as the bill of this decree. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 21 votes in favour of this procedure, 73 against and 40 abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the establishment of a study committee on institutional and structural racism in the management of security (continuation)]] [[252-00027/12]] Finally, we vote on the proposal for a resolution to create a committee of study on institutional and structural racism in the management of security. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 112 votes to four, with no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, yes: 130 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions – we have not added the telematics, therefore, the yes, to 112 face-to-face votes and delegates, plus 18 telematics –, 4 against, no abstentions. There are no more points to vote or to deal with. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you.
