ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.1.0	MPs, MPs, the session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin the order of the day I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately on the 22nd of August she died murdered in Terrassa, Montserrat, the ninth victim of gender-based violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and old age for its record. In accordance with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this Presidency calls a minute of silence to suspend the plenary session, today at midday, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to what the Parliament of Catalonia's Motion 111/XII establishes, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration from the beginning of 2020, there are 558 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the beginning of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[310-00375/12]] We continue with the first point of the order of the day of this session, which are the questions to the Government. And the first question is about the beginning of the 2020-2021 school year, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, can you ensure that the safety of school staff and students is guaranteed at the beginning of the school year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.4.0	If you ask me if I can guarantee a zero risk, I must tell you that no one can guarantee a zero risk instead of our society now. If you ask me if all the health measures that are possible and indicated to the authorities have been established, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.6.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, it is clear that the answer bears your original seal, an answer that is only valid here and now, until in a few days it is corrected, when Mr Bargalló strikes again against reality and sees himself in the need to amend the Education Councillor, that is to say, yourself. With these precedents, he understands that the fear that exists in the educational community with the start of the school year is more than justified. For a_minute, counselor, make the effort to put yourself in place. Look, the management of your department during the pandemic has been marked by improvisation, it has been characterized by continuous changes in criteria, which have only served to increase the feeling of insecurity and uncertainty. Their final plan, rather, their only plan, has not contented anyone; it is more, they have even challenged it in the courts. Teachers' unions have asked you to delay the start of school because of lack of guarantees, students have also expressed their discomfort, and the AMPAs don't even tell you how they are: nothing you don't know. With this panorama, counselor, how do you expect the educational community to create you when you claim that schools are safe spaces? How do you want them to believe you when schools are telling you that they will not be able to start school with all the security measures implemented? How do you want them to create you if there are ESO classes with more ratios than last year, as you yourself have recognized, 30_per_cent with classrooms of forty_metres_square, with thirty or thirty_y_five students? How do you expect them to believe you, Mr. Bargalló, if the most vulnerable teaching staff have been dumped? Counselor, you know that what doesn't begin, doesn't end. The problem is that, in dealing with such a sensitive area as education, the problem will not end badly, but it will end worse. And you must know, Mr Bargalló, that by those dates you will already be alone; there will be no president, and certainly no elections, as you would like. And in that political loneliness make it clear that it will be up to you to be responsible for everything that happens in Catalan schools. Look, neither does your party already doubt that the government is like the Titanic, although what it seems they are not aware of in Esquerra is that the captain in Waterloo has reserved a few lifeboats, but only for yours, and I fear you will not be among them. And the rest of the story of the Titanic, Mr. Bargalló, you know how it ends, you don't need to explain it to him. Therefore, the best thing I could do for the educational community right now is not to contribute to artificially keeping this government alive. Conversate your party to break with your partner, to give way to an electoral call that allows you to start a new stage. Only in this way will the educational community and Catalans in general be able to look to the future with something more optimism and hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.8.0	Thank you, President. At the end of your intervention, you disassembled, you only disassembled the fallacies that you had added to the beginning of your intervention, huh? You're talking to me now about elections and games. Listen, do you want me to be honest with you? Personally, now and today, I get both the elections and the matches; now and today I care about the start of the school year. Both the elections and the matches make me; now and today I care about the start of the school year. Therefore, we speak of different languages, you and I; we will not hear each other. We're talking about different languages, you and me. And I can tell you one thing: you talk about improvisation and I talk about adaptation. Because, I don't know if you know, but things change every day – I don't know if you know. Clearly, if he's worried about the election, he doesn't know. Change every day. And what have we done? Work. Do you know when we presented the instructions, ours, course initiations, the first ones? July 3rd. Do you know when the Madrid government will introduce them? August 26th. Do you know when the Galician government introduced them? August 31st. Do you know when the course began in Galicia and Madrid? September 7th. Do you know when Catalonia started? The 14th. You say improvisation, we say flexible and adapted criteria. Today, at these times, the Procicate is approving us elements of the criteria, for example, of the showers and dressing rooms. And we go every day. Because we're worried about school. If you're worried about the elections, then we won't hear each other. When there are elections, we will continue to work for the school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the beginning of the school year]] [[310-00378/12]] The next question is about the beginning of the school year, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.10.0	Counselor, this summer we saw him present instructions and contrainstructions on the reopening of the schools, but we felt him talking a little in educational key. I have three questions for you. The first one. For some time now, we have asked for a real reduction in rates, a measure that is both sanitary and pedagogical. We know, however, that, as a result, we understand, of poor planning and a lack of resources, one_of_each_three primary groups will be over the recommended ratio. We understand it's going to be a lot worse in high school. Will this surrogate affect the country equally, or will it focus on certain highly-densified territories and with a greater presence of vulnerable pupils? The second question. We know that confinement has had a strong impact on the students in cognitive and emotional terms, and that it has multiplied inequalities. What is the department doing to reverse it? I'm the third one. We know we're going to a selective quarantine scene, and we also know that buds are more frequent in the most vulnerable barrels. How does the department intend to ensure the continuity of learning during the quarantine period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You're talking about school, aren't you? - You're talking about school. We'll probably have different focus, but we can talk about it. First, the theme of the races is a very complex theme, because diversity is very great. You're sure those stable groups, huh? – because we are talking about stable groups – who have more pupils, for example, are more concentrated in Barcelona than in the rest of the country, often the same infrastructure as the centres, which is only smaller, or the same environment in which they are found. Today, the Barcelona Education Consortium makes a public call to discuss the issue, and the consortium will donate data. After that, it is clear that the media and public opinion sound around a lot of security issues makes us focus the debate on what is very important, which is what we do in this course at the educational level, at the educational level. And it is also true that we are now after many things, during the pandemic, and one that we need to be prepared to respond immediately to the needs of the pandemic. If you want, I'll tell you three concrete ideas about these three points in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.14.0	Counselor, you have spoken before adaptation, but we believe that one thing is to adapt and another is not to predict the different scenes, not to be able to reach agreements, not to put the necessary resources and to transfer responsibility to the centers. Look, the reduction in rates, we think that we should have planned the month of June, with the necessary space and with a far higher teacher's endowment than you've contracted. To reverse the effects of the confinement, we believe that a diagnostic assessment would be needed for the course curriculum, a strategy to identify the most affected student, a major customization of educational attention and a determined bet for community education, and we do not see that, on its own side. And to ensure the continuity of learning during our 40s, we believe that they will heat educational protocols, that we have not seen, and to ensure connectivity to 150,000 students who now know they have no connection during confinement. But not for the month of December, but for the coming week. These were the dues we thought we should do during this summer and they didn't. Miri, these days we have met with different actors in the educational community and all of them have expressed their concern about the uncertainties generated by their management and the failure of the girls' promises. Fortunately, however, we have also been able to see in the educational community a huge commitment to enable a safe and face-to-face return. And from here we want to thank this effort and we want to convey full confidence in the professionals of education, who know that they will care for our children and care for them with no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.16.0	Yes – thank you, President – I agree with you: the schools are prepared to open up a number of schools with complete security and attend to the entire studentship. Then, the Pla de migliora of educational opportunities that we have presented has many of these personalized ingredients of attention to the student, to the most vulnerable, dedicated to those joints that... And the digital education platform will allow us, in the first trimester, to attend to all and, from dilluns, to those who are in concrete quarantines. We're already starting to have 300,000, 80,000 and 110,000 in the quarter, but now we're starting to take care of those we care about, starting with dilluns...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.17.0	Thank you, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.18.0	...and, at the length of the quarter, all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.19.0	The next question is about the health situation [[Ask the Government about the health situation]] [[310-00376/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.20.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor Vergés, in Ciutadans we remain very concerned about the health situation in Catalonia: we see how the waiting list is, we see how stressed and exhausted the health workers and, obviously, we see, therefore, the lack of control of the epidemic. And we see how you do not stop, therefore, advertising, but you are not arranging any priority themes for the citizen. For this reason, so – I think you have to remember – in July we told you that it is obvious that you are not prepared to be leading such a complicated health system project before a second session, you do not have this training, and so we have seen how your working companions have been leaving you alone, behind the next one. For this reason, therefore, we have asked you to separate yourself, that Mr. Torra cease you at once, to be strong enough to prepare for what he sees on his own days. And in this sense also in July, therefore, we asked a question that was urgent for us, that it was a monogram ple for dealing in this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, on the subject of the Covid, a specific ple and urgent, which we offered to do in July, August or the first week of September. But, as all the citizens have seen, so this House did not happen, because you do not want to talk to the Parliament about this, and we did see, yes, as Mr. Torra was right to call urgently, not a ple from Covid, but a ple... I'm sorry, I don't know exactly how to summarize that Ple. What I know is what happened at the end, which is that the only one that this House has served is to make an asset, again, therefore, of separatism, including, now, to the functioning of the Parliament of this house. So, in this sense, Counselor, could you tell us if you will leave the propaganda behind and be dedicated to working for the health system?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.22.0	Well, President, thank you. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Thank you, Congressman. Well, we wouldn't stop doing what we're doing, which is working, obviously. We share a concern that you said, concern for the situation, concern for Covid and not Covid, concern for professionals. And that's why we have all the contingency plans in hospitals, in the health care system. And that's why we work together in this backcountry that is opening the schools and keeping them throughout the school year. And we work with all sectors of society, and that is why, priority, priority, we work because our professionals, who have been there, who are there and who will always be, can work in the best possible conditions. And this implies, above all, primary attention, that at these moments is assuming one of the greatest reptes in this phase of the epidemic: being able to attend to all that is Covid-19 in this short term and, therefore, needs a specific reinforcement and being able to continue in structural transformations because it is the vertebrator of the system. We won't stop doing it and we won't stop explaining it. And I don't stop them explaining to you, Members and Members, in different private meetings that we have, I will not stop coming here and, obviously, I don't think I will stop explaining it to the citizenry in general, which is why, as the Councillor of the Government of Catalonia, I am saying to the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.24.0	So, actually. She said: « I will not fail to explain it. It's that, actually, that's the problem. It's that you're the only one who does explain your propaganda, because what you should be doing is ready to fight the waiting list. It's just someone has to tell him, Counselor. There are many of the processes that are now absolutely closed to attendance and, therefore, the list of waits is no longer as long as we can only know it, it is infinite. They're not listening, and you're not responding in this situation. But one big problem is that health professionals are being screened because of their mismanagement, because of their propaganda, which we see is exhausted. It's obvious that you, like me and everyone else, can't do anything but thank them. But you, as the political responsibility of the Health Council, should find the means to provide the right resources for the professionals, stop advertising, no longer believe it, and give facts to the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. He'll advise, again, when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.26.0	Thank you very much. So, yeah, obviously, we plan, we work, and I have a whole team behind me, and obviously, together with me, all of this. That's why we also have a special focus on this business recovery plan. It's true that the Covid-19 has impacted us in a brutal way. Months of March, month of April, part of the May, no longer doing much activity that the people need, will have to recover in a few months that are complicated in the health system, which are July and especially August, without having let us rest this epidemic. And, therefore, we return to a return to the majority business of the company that we have to match and we have to balance because the country also needs to get back to business, and so do people, and so do we with this business recovery plan. We're working, and maybe you're bothering him, bothering him. We're a lot of people that we're leaving behind, and I'm also in charge of explaining it, and maybe it bothers him that I explain it, that I get to the people and that the citizenry can know, from the first hand, what the government of Catalonia is doing, so, to face an epidemic and also continue to face one of the country's fronts, which is Catalonia's salvation system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.27.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the actions of the Health Department to deal with the epidemic of Covid-19]] [[310-00383/12]] The next question is about the actions of the Department of Health to deal with the epidemic of the Covid-19 and the formula on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republic of Congress Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.28.0	Good morning to everyone, Counselor. The current situation has shown the importance of enjoying a public quality system. Those who have never claimed a public health and universal system now do not like or question it. Those who have explained in later times such a basic service – we don't have to go far back: the impact of the age of Boi Ruiz, with a convergent government at the forefront – now claim more and more resources. Counselor, we know that this government, from the first moment on, put salvation as one of its priorities and with the assumptions was clear. After the convergència retails, this council presented the second highest salvation assumptions in history: 9.789_millions. We have to reverse the detail. You've had it since the first minute of your term, and that's how you've been acting and despite a complicated time at the global level, Covid-19's time. And here we would also link to the complicity of other parliamentary groups. Today we will hear a great list of demands, but we also ask: where is institutional loyalty? The financing model of the autonomous communities that has been in force since 2009, while we are still in the process of changing since 2014, establishes that, in accordance with the principle of institutional loyalty, it is necessary to assess the financial impact that the general provisions approved for the State have on the autonomous communities in order to guarantee the financial adequacy of these communities. We will hear everything that the Government of the Generality has to do, a government that is expressing at the most every euro it has. But where is this institutional loyalty? We know that the state government approves high-presumptive investment, with drugs that are very important for the citizenry, but that is a presupposition. Why does the State approve of it and not fund the Catalan health service? The same with the recurring entries: 35,000_million euros more from the Spanish State do not impact in any million to the autonomous communities; 58_million euros with VAT collected for the change from 10 to 21 that has impacted on the finances of our health system, and no euro of the return. Counselor, how do we do that because all this flow to Catalan citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.30.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. So we do it and we do it, and we always claim responsibility for all the administrations. And we've said it: working together with everyone. In the first place, with the assemblies of our country. The impact of the Covid-19 on the health system is now estimated at 1,800_million euros at this time. We'll see, future Veuremel, the impact of the year you see and the other, because the impact will last. These 1,800_million euros, we have taken care of putting them at the disposal of the health system to deal with all this: at the primary level, 300_million euros in these own years; 256_millions of activity recovery, absolutely everything, we recover projects, putting them on the market with the purchase of the hospital of Reus, of the hospital of Móra, absolutely everything. What do we claim in these moments that is of special interest to the entire school board? That all administrations and those who have competence also face what is their responsibility. We give it all from the health system. The schools, the teachers– and I've been able to prove it – they're doing everything to be able to make sure that children and children have... Now, when there are quarantines, that there will be, because there will be cases, we have to make sure that these families have the support to be able to complete them; that these children and children also have, therefore, someone who takes care of them, that they are their father, their mother or guardian. Therefore, on the basis of this, we claim to the Spanish State that this permit, and we, from our competence, have added everything absolutely necessary, with these 10_million euros, for those people who will not be able to access a baccalaureate and because they do not have certain conditions, therefore, rules in their field of work. That's all we demand. If everyone here – everyone – is on their side, the assemblies are also on their side in these community interventions, reaching the people in the barrel, passing the information, which is why it is so important to explain to the citizenry and to treat it as mature, obviously we will have to do so. And we are strengthened by what corresponds to us, who are the professionals of salvation, with these plans to incorporate more than 3,800 people into an essential area such as primary care for this axis, these people that citizenship has as a reference. This is what we do and what we do, and we will not fail to demand the share of other administrations, in this case the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the performance of the Interior Department to protect citizens' rights to the use and enjoyment of their homes]] [[310-00377/12]] The next question is about the performance of the Interior Department to protect citizens' rights to the use and enjoyment of their residences, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.32.0	Welcome to this Parliament, Mr. Samper. First of all, will it be a priority for you to fight against illegal occupation and safeguard the coexistence of our roads and cities in your streets and barrels? Miri, the occupation pervades in itself situations such as organized crime, extortion, drug trafficking, floors converted into warehouses of the « top manta, sexual exploitation and, in many cases, organizational mafias that they have at the back. Will it also be a priority to seek cooperation and coordination with the rest of the bodies and security forces of the State?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of Mr. Miquel Sàmper, Councillor of the Interior, to whom I take advantage to give the welcome to Parliament. Welcome, counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.34.0	Thank you, President, Members of Parliament. The first answer is, of course, that it is a priority. But allow yourself to do an exercise to try to lower the state of alarm on this issue at the time of today, and I will explain to you why. There are two types of occupations, and you know it. One refers to the home, to the 'usual lives'; the other to them, which are of great affections. When we refer to what home abuse is, we already have systems and mechanisms in place at present to proceed with direct expulsion, rather than in the hands of the court. Therefore, I would like to say that from the Government of the Generality we know perfectly well what the problem is and what its magnitude is, and its magnitude is that everyone who has a ‘usual or even second-residence residence', because that is why the Constitutional Court has established it, today it already has a mechanism to proceed with expulsion in a more, faster way. That said, this faculty is not a faculty or a competence of security things. And that's what we're missing, Congressman. We have one more fault if we compare it with countries like France, like the United Kingdom, with countries like Germany, in which are the security bodies that can immediately proceed to these expulsions. And that would be a first topic. We are not so alarmed, because we really have to deal with the issue..., as regards « habitual lives, we already have legal measures to be able to execute this expulsion, and we do have, and it is true, a second phase: the phase of those « lives, of those floors, of those farms, which are normally of great affections. There is an urgent reform here. Miri, consulted with the Catalan and Spanish institutional lawyer yesterday, is not a case in which, if a complaint has been lodged, these physical persons have not recovered their lives. So let's lower the alarm, because we have to lower it. But it is true that we need to modify the Criminal Court Act and many more legal texts to have much faster access to these second-hand residences, which is where you are going. You go, let's say, the generation of discomfort that causes these massive occupations. And here the Interior Department has a lot, but a lot, I mean, it's true. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.35.0	Thanks, counselor, time's up. Thank you. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.36.0	Counselor, I think you should update, first of all, your data; climb the streets of Catalonia, climb the four Catalan provinces. Look, without going any further, 2018 we've already detected the illegal occupation and all the glaring leave that leaves our streets and barrels, as a result of which our lives suffer. I'm going to climb the streets of Catalonia, and I'm going to update this as I seem to think that it has the outside strength of reality that lives a lot of lives. Look in the face at what they're hitting these veins. Miri, as I said in 2018, we already detected the illegal occupation and its consequences. We presented initiations in this plenary, in the same way that a law of rapid unemployment of these occupations that we presented to the Congress of Deputies, which we wanted to update in the same 2020. The July passed, without going further, we also presented initiations in this plenary in this line: looking for solutions. We stand by to find joint solutions with an interior department, and I will say more: our group president sent him a letter, August 11, with an urgent and worrying character; concern that we denoted our visions of different barrels, with no answer; an emergency letter before a situation is growing. I will tell you more, a great headline forty-four hours ago, bad and terrible: « Girona leads the mecca of the occupation in Spain. Barcelona, the number one; Girona, the third. If this for you is to minimize, take responsibility; you will have us in the canto to fight this phenomenon whenever you want, and if not, you will have us in the front claiming it and demanding it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Saint-Gobain company and the deindustrialisation of Baix Penedès]] [[310-00379/12]] The next question is about the situation of the Saint-Gobain enterprise and the deindustrialization of the Baix Penedès, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.38.0	In the first place, counselor, give him praise for his name and wish him well and ask him for much uncertainty in his pocket. And we hope that one of the first uncertainties remains in the management of the crisis that affects Saint-Gobain to the Penedès Tree. This company made public on 23 August its intention to close one of its production lines, Glass's, which directly affects 122 people, but which may end up indirectly affecting many others – a thousand, we were told a few days ago by the workers – if we take into account the places of indirect work, of suppliers, of auxiliary industry, and the insecurity that is created respect the other production line, Sekurit's, which, even if the company says that I kept it, the workers have to end up shutting down. Can you imagine what this could mean in a region like the Lower Penedès? What has he done and what does his department intend to do about this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Business and Knowledge Councillor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa, whom I also take advantage of to welcome to Parliament; welcome, councillor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.40.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. President, counselors, many thanks, honourable Member, for your good wishes. I will try humbly, therefore, to be useful and effective to this country and to our society. See, yesterday I called the worker representative, we had a long conversation and it was a very interesting conversation to get to know his point of view. I've also cleared two days in a row with the Director General of Industry, who has contact with the company. And, therefore, our will is to be on top of this problematic situation. We wait and trust that the ministry too... as we spoke to Councilman Chakir El Homrani yesterday, we can have a joint table to find solutions, and here he will find us working alongside him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.42.0	Thank you. Counselor, tell us he called the worker's representative yesterday – the announcement was August 23–; he cleared with the director twice... Home, the truth is that, let's face it, the balance is a little small, because of the situation we are living in. You know what I mean, don't you? , that you have just arrived and that it takes time to get up to date, but it is that, look, the workers of Saint-Gobain Glass were running out of time and the region was running out of opportunities. Do you know that Saint-Gobain is the second most important industry in the Baix Penedès region? Do you know that Baix Penedès is the region with the most interest in Catalonia and that it will also be affected by Bosch's lockdown in Castellet and Gornal? Do you know that the deindustrialization and the lack of opportunities at Baix Penedès make it a region with strong social pressure? Miri, the mayors of the region, of all political colors, are mobilizing against the ature and deindustrialization that affects this territory, and also against the lack of reversal of their government. They have created a work table and demand action to combine specific occupation plans for the region and enhance dual-key training policies: training and enterprise. Counselor, the industrial policy of this country is affected by a strong and cohesive government, which is not being seen at this time. We need a government that seeks solutions, not conflicts, and that works in coordination between its departments. And, if that's what's right for the whole country, imagine 'you're down in Penedès. We ask you to act, to work to reverse the Saint-Gobain shutdown process, but above all we ask you to work for the reindustrialization of the region, for the creation of opportunities and for the fight against the weather. They'll find us in this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor, again, when he wants...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.44.0	Mrs Pacheco, Member of the Commission, yesterday I also had the first meeting with the social agents of Catalonia – Javier Pacheco, from Commissions, came; Camil Ros, from UGT, too; the president of Pimec, Josep González, also from Foment del Treball – and I made a very interesting reflection: different from 2010, we have a shared diagnosis of the crisis and solutions that we all share, too. And that had always envied me of the Scandinavian countries, the Nordic countries, which in a few weeks ruled, opposition, unions, employers found a solution against the crisis, and then, regardless of the changes in governments that might be there, so there had been continued in the anti-crisis policy, right? And, for example, I went on to make a stack that said: "I really like this job promotion proposal that says that you can inject 50,000_million euros of direct help to businesses. And I commented, therefore, to the union and employers: « – We all share it, right? "Yes, because now we have to save the peppers," we have to save the peppers. Bill Gates says we may have a vaccine at the fever. So we have to hold all the hotels, we have to hold all the peppers until the month of fever. Because there is another very important fact: unlike 2010, bank deposits are at most worldwide, also at home. Businesses, peppers are less in debt, there's a lot more bank deposits. When the uncertainty disappears, all this money will come out to the economy another time and all the businesses that we have saved, that have not been destroyed, will continue and can have options to have more orders, to have more opportunities. The function of the Department of Enterprise is... well, I see that I'm running out of time... we're still in contact; if you want, then I'll give you my mobile phone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.45.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.46.0	...and we're in constant contact.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about knowledge policies]] [[310-00380/12]] The next question is about the policies of knowledge, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.48.0	Thank you, President; good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Just like my partner did, I also want to commend him for his new responsibility. I hope you're doing a good job, too, and I'm very uncertain, for the benefit of all Catalans. Miri, we've been listening to crises for years now as opportunities. I don't think we're going to take advantage of 2008 and I don't think we'd forgive ourselves not taking advantage of this covid-19. In Catalonia you know that we are excellent in research, in science, in research, the one that generates the universities, the one that generates the research centers. On the other hand, we have many shortcomings in innovation policies or how we transfer this knowledge, how we value this knowledge to make our industry and our economy more competitive and innovative. I want to remind the chamber that Catalonia is not made of an EPI, a breather; 95_percent of the equipment we find in an operating room is not made in Catalonia, and in change we have the best professionals in the world. Something, obviously, is going on and we're not doing well. The Next Generation Fund of the European Union, which you know well, will transfer to Spain 140,000_million euros and we could allow ourselves, if we take advantage of it and know how to do well, to recover two years lost. Because Catalonia in these two years has lost its position in relation to European regions and other autonomous communities for what it does to competitiveness, and in the later studies that have been published in this way it is established. Therefore, my question, counselor, is: what priority will you give to innovation policies to walk towards an economy and industry based on knowledge and technology?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.50.0	Thank you very much. Thank you also for your good wishes. I'm also willing to work with you. Our disposition is maximum and we will be at the side of all administrations so as to maximize as many projects of reindustrialisation as we can, of money that can come from Brussels.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. Congresswoman, to ask you the question, when you want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.52.0	Thank you, President. This summer, counselor – I suppose you must have done it too – we have read very interesting articles about the need for innovation policies to be placed at the forefront of our concerns and that innovation policy is based on talent, knowledge and technology. We want to know for real – because this government already knows it, we know it from a long time ago – we want to know if you share this vision that I have now commented on. We want to know if you will try to convince this government why it prioritizes innovation policies, because in the last two years they have lost resources, we have not made innovation policies, we are worse than years ago. We want to know if you are going to ask Vice President Aragones for a presuppositional change in this line, since it seems that you do not want to make assumptions by 2021, and therefore you will also propose concrete projects – concrete projects – in this area for the European recovery fund, which will arrive resources if we are able to present potential projects. We would like, counselor, that you were here with this objective, and not to extend the division between partners or to put on the fast track uncoordinated actions, such as the law of chambers, to which you have certainly already donated 2.5_million euros, and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman, time is up. [[Alice Romero Llano continues to speak without using the microphone.]] To answer another time you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.54.0	Look, I've been a professor of public university for 20 years and, in fact, July of last year, when I ended up in the European Parliament, I went back to the university, in September I went back to the classrooms, on March we went back to the pants, or we started with the pants, because we did all the digital teaching, and I have a lot of contact with the university world, the academic world, with the rectors, many of whom, therefore, have called me. And in this sense, then, we'll try to take advantage of this great opportunity that we have all folds, right? , this European recovery plan. Europe has given a great answer. In 2008 he tried four years to react to the European Central Bank; now we have had, in four weeks, projects to inject the purchase of public and private debt on a large scale, we have had the recovery plan, Spain has accessed the money of the SURE program, the fight against the dark, perhaps soon Spain will also go to the money of the Mede, also European, believed with fantastic conditions, that can go to all the autonomy... And, in this sense, maximum collaboration with all institutions, the Spanish government too, to maximize, right? ...of course. Yesterday we sent a list of projects to the Economic Commission that the former councillor was already working on. Catalonia is a country where there are many opportunities and, therefore, we would try to take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the automotive sector]] [[310-00381/12]] The next question is about the automotive sector, and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduard Pujol. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.56.0	Counsellor Tremosa, Members of Parliament, President, good morning. Counselor, we wish you all the fate of the world in the exercise of your new responsibility as Business and Knowledge Counselor in the Government of Catalonia, in the Government of your country. We're coming from the moon [[the timer riu]] and we share commitments. I know this is an honor for you, but it's also a responsibility, and now I'm going to talk to him about responsibility. This is a country with a diversified economy, but Catalonia is also and must be industrial. This country is committed to the automotive industry, and the government has said it actively and has said it passively; the Mobility and Automotive Support Plan is proof of this willingness. We have a very powerful research network, with talent, expertise, intelligence... We have the university – now you were talking about it –, the R & D that has been generated and the quality of all our auxiliary industry. We have Idiada – now we are talking about Baix Penedès –, the cluster of the car or the same SEAT, which in full debate on the Nissan announced the reversal to Martorell of 5,000_million euros to boost the manufacture of the electric car. It's true, framed for Nissan, this SEAT announcement we treated him..., we let him pass, as if he were the most normal of the world, and no: it's very powerful news, which guarantees horizons. I've said it many times, counselor, this is about technology, training, transformation. And the fund debate is very easy to raise: how do we protect, how do we ensure, how do we guarantee the future of the 143,000 Catalans and Catalans working in the automotive sector in Catalonia? We have the obligation to always be loving to new opportunities. In fact, and you know it, this is the industrial history of the country: hearing the opportunities and taking advantage of them. But I made myself clear, above all I made myself clear: we want and we need to continue to feel strong in the engine industry. We continue to improve the Nissan, the future of the auxiliaries who depend it, and now also the tanks announced by industries with historical implantation at Penedès, such as Robert Bosch or Saint-Gobain, the ancient Spanish Crystalry. Counselor, how do you put these folds and how will we do it because the automotive industry continues to generate wealth in Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.58.0	Thank you, Mr Eduard Pujol. See... We have had a fantastic news story with the Volkswagen Group's decision to relaunch the production of automobiles in Catalonia with this multi-annual 5,000_million-euro plan. And it's fantastic news, because this will allow for a conversion of the automotive sector – which has been a automotive fan in Catalonia for a hundred years – so why can it adapt and transform itself towards sustainable mobility, which is where everyone sees a great opportunity, right? And, thanks to the fact that Alemanya did her dues well, taxingly speaking, and she was a few years old generating surplus assumptions, she's now been able to put all the meat in the grass. That is to say, Angela Merkel, who governs with the German Social Democrats, so since 2015 is generating presuppostary surpluses, reducing the German public debt; seven years of estalvi, seven weeks of injection of public money to companies, in the rescue more ambition to Germany since the Second World War. And this skits us for good in Catalonia. And now we have good news: there are various companies willing to come to the Nissan plant to manufacture electric drums to serve Volkswagen. That would be extraordinary, and so much good, so the negotiations, that the Spanish government is also involved, can succeed until the end, right? Here they will have our maximum and loyal collaboration. And another good news: the Mediterranean Corridor, so widely desired..., I must celebrate that the current Spanish Government is running this Mediterranean Corridor. Because from 2011 to 2018 we lost eight precious years without any reversal. And now it's a modest reversal, 300-400 million euros, which, by the way, is the door of academic Josep Vicent Boira. It's not what we want from nine segregated train routes for goods, like all of Europe; this will come more forward. But in change we will have a third wire to the road of Rodalies that will allow to connect, for example, the company SEAT of Martorell, with the European markets without having to lower for the Carrilet to the port and to make the change of trains. Do you know how much money Seat can save for each unit? Hundreds of euros per car, from estalvi. And this, I want to put in value that the Spanish government of the PSOE has made this policy change in relation to the one made by the PP of Catalans and water, zero_euros; of the few things that we can celebrate, because we would like to celebrate more, but we do have to put in value that the automotive industry has in the Mediterranean Corridor a great hope for the future in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the declaration of culture as essential service]] [[310-00382/12]] The next question is about the declaration of culture as an essential service, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.60.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguida consellera, congratulations. In fact, well returned to this house of the word, which you knew for other legislatures. Let me get some words of thanks to Councillor Vilallonga, with whom from this Parliament we have been able to pull forward initiatives that have helped to straighten out cultural policies, and in a remarkable way. Counselor Ángels Ponsa, I ask you a question that you may not be able to answer fully in two minutes and a half, but if you do, what is the government doing and what more steps will it take to stick to the declaration of culture as an essential service? You know it well, culture has saved the effects of the pandemic, with paradox, with unjust paradox, which culture has just helped us in this confinement, to bear it, because if you have not been much more difficult and very sad. Culture has saved us, culture has excited us, has entertained us, has helped us. Citizens need more than ever culture and, to protect it, to save it, your department has raised an important and useful – this morning you say – rescue plan. And it's true. More than the rescue plan, as we plant to protect ourselves, to ensure, perhaps to shield, the cultural activity. On various occasions we have talked about considering culture as a fourth pillar of the welfare state, and, in parallel to this consideration or as a consequence of this sincere compromise, from Junts to Catalonia we believe that we should work in the task that the same president, the very honorable President Quim Torra did: declaring culture and cultural equipment as an essential service. Culture is safe and necessary and must be in the catalogue of basic services that citizens must be able to enjoy, with all health guarantees, of course. Counselor, knowing that it does not have to be an easy statement or processing, if we have this political will – that I would like to think that all parliamentary groups share it – in what way do you think it should be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Culture Counsellor, Mrs Àngels Ponsa, who, in her case, I say well returned to Parliament, in this case, as the Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable President Torra, Vice President Aragonès, Counsellor, Members and Deputies, the truth is that it is an honor to return to this chamber; the chamber, as Deputy Ten said, of the parable, the chamber of the sovereignty of the country. Therefore, with all the honor of being a counselor of this Government, I shall now answer the question raised by Mr Ten. Well, I was saying, Congressman, and we know all the people we've spent all this time trying to help culture, culture has been going on for moments and it's going on for very, very, very hard times, right? He suffered from the pandemic, like a lot of sectors, but maybe in one way, and I'd even say, out of shape, huh? , especially in some trunks of the value chain of culture has remained so. Therefore, this is because we have found, and you have also said, that we need culture to live, because we have asked ourselves the question: what would we have done at this time of confinement without culture, without having a few books, without being able to listen to a music, without being able to see the form of a play, an opera or any of the cultural manifestations? In this sense, the two circumstances are paradoxically manifest, and in this sense President Tora makes, therefore, a demand to the Department of Culture of the Government to promote this declaration of culture as essential services, because culture is considered an essential service with objectives. I would say 'two objectives: that it is that it facilitates this protection of all the value chain that culture has, from the creators to the articulators, associations, entities and all the cultural enterprises, and also because we can preserve, therefore, this cultural fabric that we have within the country and that we have so much to preserve. Therefore, there are compromises and we will work because these cultural services are essential, and also to promote a great deal that goes further and that can make there a law of cultural rights of the citizenry. Therefore, I would like to place the agreement, the consent of the whole chamber and of all the parties that configure it in order to be able to work intensely in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the impetus of the bioeconomy and the transformation of the agri-food, forestry and maritime sectors]] [[310-00384/12]] The next question is about the impetus of the bio-economy and the transformation of the agri-food, forestry and maritime sectors, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Irene Fornós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.64.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillor, the crisis of the Covid-19_ has placed on the table a series of needs to which we must give answer. But this answer must at times be an opportunity to go further, just as our country needs and asks. Reduce inequalities, strengthen the state of welfare and productive capacity of the country; accelerate transition to a more sustainable economic model and also new models of food production and distribution. We need to position ourselves in order to be able to complete the European global yarns perfectly profiled on the 2030 Agenda and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal, as well as the central European plans for economic and social recovery, the Green European Pact and European digital strategy. The Government of the Generality, from the advice of Vice President Aragonès, has perfectly gathered and profiled this strategy in the Pla de reactivation économique et protection sociale, a reactivation that must also be very present the agri-food sector of our country, indispensable if we want to take this step forward. A response that must at times be an opportunity to put in value the potential of the country's agri-food sector and its role in territorial balance. Catalonia must be an agri-food country of reference, which guarantees the ecological and environmental sustainability of the entire food chain. And all this goes to boost the bioeconomy and transform the agri-food, forestry and maritime sector. Food sovereignty is a strategic axis of any country, and all countries must have a food strategy, Catalonia too, and we are witnesses of how from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food worked, already from the previous legislature, to achieve this model change. He will advise, last July with Vice-President Aragonès on a plan to reactivate the agri-food sector of €3,000_million. A very good news for the whole sector, as we all know how necessary it is to have an economic endowment in order to be able to bring all these necessary policies forward in order to be able to make this transformation. Counsel, can you explain to us what this plan consists of and what are the activities of the department in relation to the impulse of the bioeconomy and the transformation of the agri-food, forestry and maritime sector?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.66.0	Well, thank you very much, Congresswoman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. In fact, despite the very bad situation we are living in, let me say that I am happy to say that this department makes a leap forward, makes a leap forward determining, and goes so far as to say without precedent. And basically to transform, as you said, the agri-food sector, but not only the food sector, but also the forestry sector and the maritime sector of this country. A sector that, too, has proved to be absolutely strong, absolutely resilient and, as I am not tired of saying, is also an essential sector for our country. And now with the Pla for the government's economic revival, so we have a new opportunity that I assure you we won't disapprove. Catalonia is an agri-food country of first order, of reference; we are also at an absolutely key moment, and now it is time to decide various things. Among them, it's up to us to decide how and what we want to eat, to think and decide how we want to produce it, and also how we want people to see it in our country. All this implies a change, as you also said, a change of model, a leap forward that we have been working with republican policies that my predecessor Meritxell Serrat has already started, and now what you're playing is speeding it up. And not just speed it up, but also culminate it. I want to value these two projects that you were talking to me about. Two projects that, in fashion, say, as the owner, I will mention: the impulse of short circuits and promotion and marketing – important – ; territorial cohesion – this is extremely vital – ; the creation of new value chains based on the bioeconomy; new opportunities for negotiation in the territory; sustainable production – also important – ; support for transformation; the modernisation of the regade to make our markets much more productive, for example, the Urgell channel; the digital transformation of the Catalan agri-food sector with Agrodigicate; the transition of the sector to energy self-supply from renewables, and the impulse of agri-food, forestry and maritime research in the country. These are, as I said, honourable Member, the headlines, but after there's a big job, there's a giant job that will position us, no doubt, where we deserve to be. A revolution, I said, I have explained it on more than one occasion, a revolution that will make the agri-food sector, the forestry sector and the maritime sector of this country, and that, doubtless, here too, the women will captivate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether public money will be allocated to the recreational and tourist centre of Hard Rock]] [[317-00224/12]] And the first formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.68.0	Good morning, President. We want to ask you one more time about the CRT Vila-seca and Salou. In fact, the first time we asked him was on June 26, 2019; the second time we had the opportunity to ask Mr. Pere Aragonès, the Vice President of the Generality, also about this question. At that time we asked him if he could guarantee that public money would not be invested in this speculative operation, and you said very vehemently and clearly that no public_euro would go to this operation, but this week we have known that the three-band operation between Criteria – the investment houlding of the Box – and the Incasòl – the public law firm – will end up transferring them to Hard Rock, which will be in charge of the implementation of the complex. And the question we want to ask is whether he can specify us or if he can say again that no public euro will go to this project, taking into account, and if he can explain to us, the clauses of the writings and the contract and all the assumptions that are included in it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.70.0	Thank you. Very good morning to everyone. So effectively, I repeat it, and not only do I repeat it, the Territorial Councillor repeats it, Vice President Aragones repeats it, all the reports that consist of the administrative expediency that are in the Vice-President and the Department of Economy, they repeat it, and, therefore, I do nothing more than say that, in this operation, I would only miss, there will be no public euro spent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.71.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, you've got the word again for the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.72.0	The question is that we ask him specifically about the clauses of the writings and the contract, where it can be seen very clearly, I imagine he will have read it, that it is confirmed that 80_percent of the 120_million euros that this operation costs, specifically 96_million euros, would remain in a risk situation. In fact, there are up to fifteen assumptions in the contract that Hard Rock can return land and recover investment and expense. You insist and insist, both Vice President Pere Aragonès, you yourself, as the Counsellor of Territories, Damià Calvet, acting as the API of « the Box, that no public euro will go on this project. A toxic project for health: 1,200 black and white machines will be installed in this recreational and tourist centre. A toxic project for the territory, and a toxic project, as we say, for the public archives, because you do not take into account that the Incasol will have to find the right method to pay any compensation that does not fall on the rest of the agents acting in this speculative operation. In this case, the Generality is putting public foundations at risk, foundations of all citizens, a common good that should go to the priorities of this country. And, in addition, as we asked Mr. Pere Aragonès at the time, he was betting on a model and a project that is speculative, and, in addition, after the Covid showed that the monoculture of tourism only causes toxicity and precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer you have another word the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.74.0	Yes, Congresswoman. I'll give you a run on this subject. From the Government of the Generality, always with total scrupulousness, as well as the conditions of the CRT, both of Vila-seca and Salou, always with total transparency; in fact, they are hanging, since many years, the conditions of this bidding in the portal of transparency of the Generality. It was passed a law in Parliament that counted on the support of most of the groups in the chamber, it was written an urban master plan that was debated and agreed with the territory, it was made an international competition for the management of the space that won Hard Rock. And, in fact, now we find ourselves at the time of the sale of the land, effectively, which is done through the Incase which, as its director, Albert Civic, explained, is what does the Incase with this kind of operation; it is to say, buy and sell and, in this case, charging in three terms. Miri, why do we say that no public euro, that the impact on public finances is nil? Why do we say that? So, look, because I textually said the report of the General Directorate of Presumptives. A March report that supports the operation because, textually, the Department of Vice-Presidents and Economics and History considers that the deficit and expenditure rule impact will produce entirely by formalizing the operation, so that the impact will be zero to affect it for equal fees and expenses. That's why we say it's not affected. And I insist that this was always one of the conditions that we had laid down. The appearances of the Territorial Councillor and the Vice-President have been requested. Perfect, let's explain, let's explain everything, it's that we're where we are. They haven't changed things. This is what we want to do because we believe that it also helps, at a very difficult time, at a very difficult time, to generate jobs and to invest in a very busy area, precisely, for the effects of the pandemic. We, with all the guarantees, with all the security, with all the transparency, want to explain ourselves and we want the whole society to know perfectly a project that we consider to be beneficial for the society as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.75.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the dismissal of the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge and the appointment of the new Councillor]] [[317-00222/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.76.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, when and why he made the decision to dismiss Councilwoman Chacón and appoint Mr. Ramon Tremosa as Business and Knowledge Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.77.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.78.0	So, look, as you know, I imagine, so, it's a faculty that the president of the Generalitat has to appoint and cease his advisers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.79.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.80.0	Well, president, it's important because, especially, because I want to think that you are aware of the magnitude of the economic, social and industrial crisis in our country. When many people are concerned about whether they will lose their jobs permanently, much more people than before are juggling to arrive at the end of the month, many young people are condemned to not see an immediate future out and many businesses are in a difficult situation of uncertainty, what is the current president of the Generality offering them? So, more uncertainty and more motivation to distrust politics. Because, President Torra, you were the one who, on the 29th generation of this year, said that after presuppositions he would call elections, because there was a broken government, no trust or loyalty between the governing partners. You were the one who in the middle of the pandemic said that, once the health crisis in Catalonia had taken place, you would call elections because the citizenry is pronounced on which direction we should get out of this crisis. It was you who said you would call elections to preserve the institution. And all the sensations now is that he'll fail another time in his word. And it shows us with this recent remodeling of government and, especially, posing someone like Mr. Tremosa to manage Enterprise and Knowledge. That it's not a change that responds to the pandemic, that it's not a change that responds to better management in industry or business. Only answer to party interests. And it's hard, because in times of crisis the citizenry needs to be heard, it needs to be told the truth and not that its public representatives lie or play with their lives for pure party interests. The workers and workers who are with these uncertainties and the entrepreneurs also share a feeling: we can get out if we work together and united for the common causes we have before, but not from fallen receipts of market fonationalisms, nor with sectarianism they exclosure that they deny small country, nor with governments working longer than necessary, nor with symbolic and not effective presidencies. It is you, President Torra, who has the capacity and the highest representation in Catalonia to call elections, the obligation to preserve the institution and to return it to the city. I did not finish his stage by imposing on us the fallen receipts of market phonationalism of Mr. Tremosa, but by completing his word, returning the view to the people, calling elections for her to be – as you said – who decided the future of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer that, the president has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.82.0	Well, I don't know if he asked me any questions... I mean, you're here to explain these things to us. Jo, you've already asked to comment, so I thought, look, maybe from a group of leftovers, right? You'll have their support today. Don't you? Because I face a trial for disobedience, to defend the right to freedom of speech. I thought, man, the lefts are usually on the side of freedom of speech, today I'm sure the group of commons, therefore, will give you full support in this matter. You're sad now, aren't you? , that this catalyse of dreaves and I don't know what else– because I must be the culprit of all evils–, so I must be, precisely, the one who disobeyed, huh? in favour of freedom of expression. So good to the building of the front, to the building of the Juntament of Barcelona, has held a banner in defense [[applause]] from the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles and kept the dark place, so good! With the least, today, from you, I expected this question. And, look, she didn't ask me any questions, so I'm going back to ask her a favor. Because, of course, you seem to be coming here and not knowing everything you water. You're the government of Spain, aren't you? You're the Spanish government. So, look, I, of everything he said to me, I don't forget. But they're asking for a favor, a favor these days. A favor! A favor that will affect thousands of pairs, thousands of pairs. Please regulate the job losses of couples who are forced to stay home with their children. Please, set it up. [[Greetings.]] His vice-president, Pablo Iglesias, said so and expressed it publicly. There's four days left. There are four days left to start the course. Do it. It is the best favor they could do to the citizen not only of Catalonia, of the whole Spanish State. Give tranquillity, trust to the pair. He's at his hands. The vice president said so; that I complete his word, that you do us this favor. We'll be out and give them all the support of the world. It's the only thing they need, the only thing. Because this is affecting people's real problems. Thousands of couples are waiting for this decision. Do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.83.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the benefits of holding a President of the Government in office in the event of the incapacity of the current President]] [[317-00223/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.84.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, you have said publicly that if the Supreme Court confirmed the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which would result in its disqualification, you would be in favour of Parliament not appointing another President. According to our laws and if it is not called in elections, this would mean having a president in office for many months. Could you explain to the chamber who are serious about the benefits for institutions and the country of having a president in office for a long time, especially at these moments of struggle against the pandemic and its economic and social effects?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.86.0	Yes, and so much so, but could you explain to me what are the benefits of bringing to justice a president of the Generality to put a banner in favor of the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles? [[Some applause.]] Do you want to explain to me what are the benefits of continuing to keep the prisoner innocent people for having called a referendum, of keeping people in exile, of continuing repression? Listen, this isn't about the consequences of disqualification. Here's the question of why there's still a disqualification in this country, why for a banner a state is about to disable a president. You also hoped for solidarity here, and you also hoped for it. You have always been on the side of democracy, of republican values, even in Catalonia; you will not stand on the side of freedom of expression, not this time?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.87.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.88.0	Thank you, President. I already know that, as a matter of time, maybe he hasn't gotten used to it yet, in fact, which is the norm and the uses of the chamber. You're the subject of the control session, not the rest of the groups, and less of the opposition. I asked him a very simple question: What does Catalonia gain from having a president in office for many months? And remember that you said: "We have always been at the side of democracy and institutions... Yes, when they have deserved it and, when we have warned one and the other time that disobedience does not carry no place, we have not been listened to. Therefore, do not claim our support when you have done exactly the opposite of what we have recommended. I also remember that if you are disqualified and therefore this is a cause of cessation, it is for a Catalan law, approved by this Parliament, that it is that which establishes the causes of cessation of the President of the Generality. You are still in time to demonstrate that you are putting forward the interests of the country that you do not require a partisan and sectarian guide. He has lost the opportunity in the change of government, it has been shown that the only one that has moved them is to fix it with this species of internal accounts, but now, that we are talking about the Presidency of the Generality, I only ask him to promise that if you really are disqualified by judicial decision and in application of our laws, the Parliament of Catalonia can pick up another president or can or can cast all papers in elections. This country does not deserve a presidency based on party interest, it deserves an effective and effective president in the face of an effective and effective government. We need economic recovery, we need social reconstruction, and we absolutely don't want to waste time with partisan desires that only benefit a few.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.90.0	No, you're right about one thing. I may not have just adapted to the mechanisms of the chamber at this time, but of course, I don't wear 30 years in politics like you. I worked in the private business a few years ago, I've come here now, then I'll leave it and, of course, I haven't taken these costumes. I'd say listen, look, don't worry about elections and work; work for people, which is what they have to do. Before I liked the counselor, the education counselor, who said: "Look, I'm not talking about elections, because I have a course start, diluns. Listen to me, both talking about the real problems of the people and not common or you haven't told me about the real problems of the people. That they don't care about the school principal, do you? [[Widow's remorse.]] That they don't care? That was the question to ask today. It wasn't a question about elections. I mean, listen, how do we do it? How do we do it to get ahead of ourselves? Therefore, my obligation as President of the Generality is to work for people, for salvation, for life. And that's what we've been doing throughout the pandemic, all this time, day by day. Do you know what RT is now in Catalonia? Do you know the cipher? [[Pause.]] You don't know her. Yes or no? [[Pause.]] You don't know her. All right, so it's 0.96. Do you know what the risk is of returning to Catalonia? He doesn't know him either. He's at 180. Do you know what the cumulative incidence is in the State, for example, of the Community of Madrid? Do you know? More than 500. Do you know where Catalunya is? Less than... between 186. Do you know what the middle of Spain is? More than 200.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.91.0	President, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the possible agreement for the approval of the law containing the prices of housing loggers]] [[317-00226/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. It was supposed to be an important day and, in fact, it can still be. We had to take an extraordinary step to limit the loggers, the need is imperative and we can't give it up. You were very clear about your position. He's committed to working for an agreement, and now we can't stand it. The Catalan right-wing centre has repeatedly shown us that it does not want to regulate markets, but this must be done; all issues cannot be dealt with equally, President. We know that and we know that you see it that way too, because housing is not a free market, it's a free market, it's a debunked, deorbited and speculative market, and we can't keep this quiet any longer. We have a historic opportunity to add up in defense of habitat and in favor of the lodgers. And it's that putting life at the center is that, deputies and deputies of Junts for Cat, rebuilding the country is that too. We do not want tremors of ways to protect the right to a decent habitat or to shield it, and because this right, in the midst of national emergence, remains behind the interests of the merchandise. We don't have to give up other roads. It's much more public housing, sure, but that's very slow. And today, in an emergency situation, immediate responses are needed. You can't protect life by leaving the bar open to speculation, and that's clear to you, President, we know you're clear. He said it publicly despite what he's been through today. Today we can put a legal topall, adjust the price of the loggers and we are in the cent_per_cent. Yesterday, at a later time, the Llogators Union and the deputies of this chamber tried. And the truth is we don't understand, we can't understand why the work of another department of the same government is stopped, but it's that we can't especially hear it in a social emergency situation like we are. We did not hear the tour of the 24th of July when, just after signing a proposal, the same group that had signed it considered it. It's also true that other formations of this chamber have chosen to do the usual, to curl up, to save themselves behind competing false debates. They're excuses, excuses and cowards for not facing a huge social debate or giving solutions to the citizenry. Our job is to seek out how to make the life of the citizenry better. And if the debate were to be held in competition, it would have to go to Congress and Moncloa. But no, the debate is not competitive, it's political courage. If they didn't dare, we'd have to do it ourselves, and that's what we agreed, of course, president. We're still in time and we think you can be the key to falling the scale. Do it, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'm a little surprised by this question because, in fact, you're already answering it. He says: "No, if I already know what you think and, therefore, it is public and noticing what I think about this issue. I suppose... no, when you were talking about centerright, it was about the other side, about this side of the hemicle, wasn't it? [[The President of the Generality assigns the right sector of the hemisphere.]] Not this one. [[The President of the Generality assigns the left sector of the hemisphere.]] No, it's this centerline because we don't want to occupy this political space. And I think it's good to know in this question who's the opponent. Because there's a big consensus in this country to regulate the loggers, I think there's a big consensus. But it's not on this side of the hemisphere where there's the problem, it's on this other side, it's on this other side where there's the problem, the vote's not here, huh? They're not here. So, I think it's very important, first of all, to do this reflection if I may. This law reminds me of the great social laws that were promoted in the previous legislature, the laws of President Puigdemont, the laws of Vice President Junqueras, practically all recourses to the Constitutional Court. But in those days we approved those laws and went there, which in these times ours has cost us a little more, let's say, to face whom we should face. In any case, I agree with you. Besides, the post-Covid world has to be different, in the post-Covid world you've already broken everything, exploited us in the front and, therefore, at these moments I recognize it, there is this important crisis of loguers in Catalonia and, therefore, we have to pull it forward. We need to regulate the prices of the lodgers in this country, and we need to do so taking into account both the vulnerability of the lodgers and the vulnerability of the small owners, too. We have to take into account the two realities. I still trust you all day. I trust that there is this collective effort, so this last effort to pull this law forward. I believe, I hope, that it is possible, that there is this amount of willingness because there is a great consensus in the country, I insist. Above all, we are not mistaken as adversaries, who are there, who will vote that "they are not on this side of the hemisphere. And, therefore, I hope that this central idea that there is the country, basic, of great consensus of regulation of the loguers can pull forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.95.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the initiation of the school year and the permission to pay the parents who have children in quarantine]] [[317-00225/12]] The next question is the formula on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.96.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very Honourable President Torra. In the first place, I want to take advantage of the intervention, on behalf of Juntes per Catalunya, to wish all the luck and uncertainty to the councillors Sámper, Tremosa and Ponsa, as we also want to thank the service to the country and to the people who have shown the councillors Buch, Chacón and Vilallonga. And, in this sense, President, I would like to express our respect for this remodeling of Government. Cessing, appointing and maintaining advisers and advisers are all legitimate political decisions and must be respected. The same way that the decision made by President Torra is to be respected in relation to the view of the Supreme of the coming week. We're at your side, President. The clever and unheard-of possibility that the Spanish State decides to disable the President of the Generality in exercise to defend freedom of expression, we hope and trust that we will all be at the height of the circumstances. That said, for a few of us, 1,600,000 students from our country will start school. They will do so with the illusion of returning to classrooms after six months of not being with their classmates, but they will also be accompanied by nerves and a certain fear of becoming infected, of being able to transmit viruses to the peers, to the parents, to the family, it is logical and normal. So today, as you said, we can see a message of tranquillity. The government, with you in the front, has done its dues. The name "Press September" has given the results thanks to the persistent warnings of the Government, the good directives of Dr. Argimon, and, together with civic collaboration and awareness of the citizenry, we have placed the contagion under the ration of one, although we cannot relax or lose sight of it. This fact makes it possible to open the schools with safety and guarantees for students and thanks, especially, to the effort of the entire educational community that, despite some totally preventable dysfunctions, have made a huge effort to start this school course. In short, President, he did his job and did well. Now, there is also a question that is not resolved by the Spanish Government, which ensures the permissions paid to the parents and the mothers who have children in quarantine. And in this sense, president, we'd like to know what his appreciation for respect is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.98.0	Thank you very much. In the end, effectively, it was the Republic Group and the Group of Together that talked about the real problems of the people, there's already the theme... Listen, because, actually, this is the question, it's that at these times there's nothing more important than this. Or does it occur to anyone that in this country there is a topic more important than the beginning of the schools? Please. Therefore, maximum concentration. If the school works the country will work. And, therefore, all the efforts that have been made all this time in my life that we know have been making Education and Greetings, that have been aimed precisely at guaranteeing this school start, it seems to me that we have to put it in value. I say: "It's time to go back to school and we're ready to do it. It seems to me that this is a message that reassures families and that we need to know how to explain them. And I'd also like to make an attachment. I have had the opportunity to meet with school principals, both primary and secondary. Not only did they appreciate the effort they've made now, no, I wanted to thank them for the effort they've made since March 13th when we tanked the schools. My wife is a master. I've seen people working, I don't know..., almost all day long to be able to be in touch with their students, to be able to guide them, to be able to advise them. It was a truly extraordinary task. And now I want to thank them for what they've done and I want them to ask them to continue that way because they're a country pride all over the educational community. I used to say that there was something more important than choosing them, that they were the masters and masters of these schools. Therefore, all my recognition because the school is the great social elevator, the school is the great cohesionator of Catalonia, and it is the trunk pillar of society. We have to donate all the guarantees. We have sought it, we have sought to give all guarantees of security, we have sought to give all guarantees to parents, students and teachers. But we lack a question, an essential question. I've told all the forums. The other day, speaking to President Sánchez, I say: "Please regulate the work losses of the couples who are going to stay home, who will be the majority; they will not be the couples with positive PCRs, no. It will be all the close contacts of that child and all his parents who are going to stay home, and so the vast majority will be these, and the vast majority of us now have them unprotected. How are they going to do it? Is that how all these couples are gonna do it? There's a few days to do it. Ask the Spanish government to react. There is the day-to-day functioning of the country. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.99.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.100.0	I still trust him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.101.0	The last question... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the convocations convened for the Catalan National Assembly in a situation of pandemic]] [[317-00221/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.102.0	Mr. Torra, we are in the second wave of the pandemic, the contagions are triggered and the ANC will concentrate fifty_ thousand people in one hundred different places in Catalonia. Are you going to pay attention to health care providers by disadvantaging these concentrations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.104.0	We have already publicly explained that in this country the right to demonstration is respected, not only for political demonstrations, to go to trade union demonstrations. If you want to manifest the 12th of October, then you can also do it safely, yes, with all the preventive measures, huh? And therefore, on the part of Salut, on the part of Interior, all measures of prevention have been dictated in the case that someone is likely to manifest. That said, the Government of Catalonia has also taken its decisions, and therefore we have decided, in the first place, to cancel all official acts except the offer to the Councillor in Cap Casanova, in which we only serve three representatives of the Government, and we will not attend the acts of the Day, because it also seems to us to be more cautious in this case, so we will not attend to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.105.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.106.0	Mr Torra, it is an obvious fact that neither you nor any other autonomous government can prohibit the right to manifest itself to the population, but they can certainly discourage demonstrations to ensure the health of all Catalans, to whom this pandemic has brought death, fear and economic crisis. And no one understands that health standards are applied differently for ordinary citizens than for the ANC, and that ordinary citizens can only meet ten by ten and that the ANC can summon fifty_ thousand people and that nothing happens. And you wonder why? And that's why the separatist process is always behind it. The process always goes ahead of everything. Before the process breaks the Constitution and the Statute; and also the prison laws, if you are a prisoner by the process; and also the traffic laws, if you are a separatist who is cutting road streets. And also the rules on public procurement and on the embezzlement of public money, if the money goes to the process and its friends. Look, that's why we've already seen times that you..., there's no law worth when it comes to the process, but what we didn't know is that you were going to go against scientific evidence and health standards to summon fifty-thousand people into the pandemic as well. And what we believe is that their imminent disqualification for failing to comply precisely with the laws will prepare us, the Catalans, for a hot autumn. And this manifestation is the first act of that hot autumn that you prepare us for, and for that you don't give a damn about the pandemic. But we believe that you, as the Government of Catalonia, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, have an obligation to act and to ensure that these fifty-thousand people do not endanger the health of all Catalans. And they're still in time to do that. Apart from demanding strict compliance with all health standards, you have to be held accountable. Do it, Mr. Torra. They expressly discourage citizens from attending this demonstration, and with what happens... I tell you that Citizens will be waiting for what can happen there, and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.108.0	...I hope the health of Catalans is not exposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.109.0	Reply by the President of the Generality. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.110.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...accustomed to their threats. I mean, now another threat, then; come threats. Do you want me to ban demonstrations by Nissan trade unionists? Saint-Gobain? Do you want me to ban them? Do you want me to ban other demonstrations? I will not do it, because, precisely, listen to me: if anyone, then, may suffer some consequences, let's say, to defend the fundamental rights of this country, so I. And, therefore, in this country is respected the right to demonstration, from right to concentration, the right to expression... all the fundamental rights. And that's right, with all the measures and all the possible preventions, huh? With all the measures and with all the possible preventions. I'll tell you what the government will do, but I in the citizens... I have to respect the decisions they want to make. Therefore, I am convinced that... they know, moreover, the tarann of Catalan society, we will have a Diada tranquil·la, a Diada serena, aware all of the difficult moment of country we live, aware that we are in a situation – and before Mr. Iceta exposed it, the situation – much better, three times better, for example, than the Community of Madrid. Does this have to be a console? In absolute – in absolute. I've always denied myself that... to think that it could be a more advantageous situation, absolutely. We're in a very complicated situation. I know that, and I have always called for the civic and solidarity commitment of Catalans, and I know that on this day the civic and solidarity commitment of Catalans will be on top of everything. I have absolutely no doubt about it. And I only take advantage, too, of the honourable Member, Mrs. Lorena Roldán, who I see is not here today, and to support me, therefore, with this new act of internal democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.111.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.112.0	...by Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.113.0	Thank you, President. Time's up. So this is the control session. [[Decree-Law 29/2020 of 28 July, on which presuppositionary measures are taken in relation to the deployment of social welfare activities, the ordering and strengthening of certain social residential and day-care services provided by the Residence Contingency Plan, to address the outbreaks of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19, on which the existence of presuppositions in the matter of childhood and adolescence of the Decree-Law 11/2020, of 7 April, on which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to address the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementarities, and on which the Decree-Law 21/2020, of 2 June, the Economic and Social Charter, the Economic and Social Charter Measures, the Economic and Social Charter]] [[203-00054/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the validation of Decree No. 29/2020 of 28 July, for which presuppositionary measures are taken in relation to the deployment of social service activities, the ordering and reinforcement of certain social services of residential character and day care that provide the contingency plan for residences, in order to cope with the outbreak of the pandemic. [[remorse of the voice]] generated by Covid-19, for which it is maintained the validity of precepts in matter of childhood and adolescence of Decree Law 11/2020, of 7 April, for which economic, social and administrative measures are taken in order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementarities, and for which is modified by Decree Law 24/2015, of 2 June, of urgent measures of economic, cultural and social character, under the title of measures of social character. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place will intervene on behalf of the Government, the Counsellor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.114.0	Thank you, president, vice president, deputies, deputies. We are once again taking the word to speak from this farotry like the Government to debate with the parliamentary groups about one of the aspects that we were most concerned about, the harder it was at the time to face the Covid-19 pandemic, the situation in the residential area and how to give it an answer. An exceptional situation that we have experienced in this country, in Catalonia, that has lived in the rest of the State and that has lived all over the world. A situation that requires the maximum debate, requires... We have not spoken here in the government's control session, with interpellations, a specific monogram ple on the subject and I think it is worth talking again and talking again about lessons after, how we face a delay that can be complex in this health situation, because while we do not have a fully functioning vaccine we will be in an exceptional situation. Also the derivatives it has in the social sphere. That is why, at this point in time when the health crisis has not been overcome, the objective is clear: to prevent, prevent and prevent. To see what mechanisms worked at the most complex time we started, to see in what aspects we had difficulties and how we reinforced them, and that the late and winter were as peaceful as possible in an environment that is of greatest concern. We haven't had a quiet time, you know perfectly well. It wasn't just Catalonia, it was the rest of the state with different moments, and what it's all about is prevention, active work and location. For this reason, what I present to you is a decree of urgent measures with three different parts, of which I will focus especially on one, but to place the three parts in a first chapter, which is basically the instrument agreed with the sector at the time of the situation in the residential area in all the late and winter, in the contingency plan, in the various contingency plans that have been implemented and worked jointly between the Department of Treball, the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Health. A _second chapter that is more punctual and what is done is a small change in the aid to workers in the arts and culture in order to increase the number of beneficiaries– there is a situation of such precariousness in this area that even with a limit of fifteen days, to demonstrate fifteen days of work in this area, in the cultural sphere, there are difficulties because some workers, workers and workers in the world of culture can access it. And then there is a set of additional provisions that they claim to extend initiatives that have taken place... the validity of these initiations, of articles, of laws that have already passed through this chamber and that were linked to the duration of the state of alarm. What we do is to ensure those aspects that are good for us, which must be pre-emptive in other matters – in the matter of childhood, etc. – that were linked to the state of alarm, in this decree in order to be able to give them continuity. Because as soon as they were approved they were linked to the state of alarm, now we would have to give them this continuity. I'll basically focus on the contingency plan. I was able to explain to them, because we had just closed it, in the extraordinary plenary on the situation in the residential area. The Covid-19 pandemic has generated an exceptional situation in residential centres. We carry from then on working together and especially at the time when the situation was able to normalize between exceptionality – they know perfectly well that in protocols a positive case in a residential center is already considered bud and already active all the elements, but at the time when we were able to have a more peaceful situation than the one we passed between the end of March and the beginnings of April, we were already working around this forecast that we would try to keep it clear because the equipments, because the services can face up to the late with the best possible protection and at the same time maintain a quality and focused attention to the person. This is the purpose of the plan: to prepare ourselves because if there is a _one on which we have already activated all the mechanisms and measures so that people living in the residences, who are the most vulnerable before the disease– we have not spoken on many occasions; middle age of 84 years, 90_per_cent with previous pathologies– are at the maximum possible curities and protections. This set of measures is structured around six key aspects: prevention of infection and protection of professionals, early detection of infection, intervention of public health, health care in the territorial area, social care and order and strengthening of the residential area and information systems. In short, to learn from those actions that we have seen working, as is an early and early response intervention in the pool of run-off residents of the country's territory. I think it is important that we place them, that beyond this contingency plan, that it is global, that we have used this mechanism to be able to give an agile response to the series of measures that I will explain to them, each of the residential centres in this country, on September 15 – now more than 90_percent already have approved it – has their own contingency plan. And then there is a translation of the general contingency plan and contingency plans of each of the residential centres at the territorial level, with the balance in the response in the concrete territory. I think it is important, because this helps to contextualize: the global contingency plan, the contingency plan of each centre and plans linked to the territory, with all these measures added up: the reality of the residences in a concrete territory, the reality of the global contingency plan and as much as possible symbiotics. Basically, what we are placing in the decree of urgent measures is to guarantee the stowage of protective material. It's one of the key elements. We haven't spoken on many occasions in this House. It is one of the key elements: all the residents of this country must have a stock of four weeks of linked PPE, and apart from the centralised purchasing management framework of the Government of the Generality, before we are in a complex situation at the time of the purchase of PPE, as we lived on March and April, not in Catalonia, all the world, but are very forewarned, so that we can give them the support of the public sphere. Staff reinforcement. This situation requires more staff, and we need to strengthen the staff. The reserve of free seats, an element that we have after: the residences, when they can have a good sectorization, when they are in spaces enabled to give answer to the iniciator of any bud, are in better conditions. The opening and maintenance of alternate devices, which we hope to use as little as possible, but this is like having a fire park: you have to have it; if you don't have the best fire, but the fire park you have to have it. And, in this sense, this maintenance of the alternate arrangements, which, as you know, and I have already explained, have particular characteristics, because we are talking about that, in most cases, we are talking about big dependents, very high dependents, who need some conditions in the space that are not the same as in other citizens and citizens around the world like hotels, health, etc. The financing of the cost overruns resulting from all this service provision, according to the protocols of the current Covid-19 context, and the intensification of protection measures for the rapid and effective response in the management of rebounds from the residences, with this element that is key, and that the circle to explain: a case is considered a rebound, in a residential environment. In the other areas, there must be three cases, to be regarded as a resurgence. Here, if I may, we want to be so preemptive that with a case it is already considered to be overturned, because, as you know, the Covid does not come out of a residence and enters a residence. From here, the reservation of empty places to residences. We are talking about booking 2,800 seats, which will continue to be paid from the Administration, because it is an obligation that we have the residences, because this allows us to keep a clear map of all the sectorization processes when it is given in Covid cases, and to make good confinements and aids with possible positive cases. It's gonna keep the support spaces. A very concrete example is a space that they worked together to open, from the Department of Labour, from the Department of Health, from the two linked consortia, the Barcelona Health Consortium and the Consortium of Social Services and with the Barcelona Assembly, which is the residence of the Parallel, of 210 places. It's an example. They must be maintained and served us during the summer as well, when there have been cases of small residences that cannot be sectorized, can make movements and ensure that healthy people are separated from the infected to make proper attention. The increase of the structural staff to the residences. Covid still needs a staff reinforcement, in an environment where it is already necessary. In this sense, what we are doing is facilitating, through this Decree of Urgent Measures, the contracting of 1,800 gerocultors and auxiliaries, of 370 nurses to the larger residences, to ensure the nursing care for twenty-four hours, and the reinforcement of a figure that until that very moment disconexia that was part of the residential environment, but that in the field of pandemic is claus, that is the figure of the sanitary officer with functions of control of infections. Also, another element: the strengthening of the public structure, the strengthening of the structure of the department, the contracting programme of 219 technicians for the Department of Work, Social Afers and Families, which allows us to strengthen attention and action to the territory. This new staff will be dedicated to the accurate follow-up of all the residents of their territory, to strengthen the inspection of social services and to accompany the locals. One of the things I said to him was that the department had grown a lot, it had grown a lot in servants, but it had not increased with the same level in structure, and in an emergency situation we need to strengthen this structure. It's a key element. They know that even we've done something that's historical, that's that the Generality's contract court has been opened the month of August, exceptionally for the first time in its entire history, and now we're in the finalization of the entire staff selection process, and it's already operational October 1. As I said, the decree is basically a guarantee tool, guarantee of the mechanisms, guarantee of the financing, guarantee of the contingency plan in the residential area. It has been granted to the sector, in the employer and trade union sphere, and in this decree, which is also important to highlight, we are not only talking about the residences of large people: we are talking about all residential centres, about the residences for people with disabilities, about the housing units for people with disabilities, about the housing units for people with social problems arising from mental illness, in the day centres for large people, the day centres for occupational therapy and special care centres and the day centres for occupational and insertion, the SOS. As I said, these are the central aspects of the decree. Then we find some other aspects that I think are key: how we adapt this element of aid to the cultural sector and after all a series of decisions that were taken in childhood, especially for the care of children that all their parents are in Covid's position and that have no family network, like we did at Cabrera's hostel and keep these elements with a very preventive element. I don't want to finish this exhibition, and I have one minute left, without commenting before a window that I also think is very important to situate. This decree of urgent measures is a decree of emergency measures specific to the contingency plan, this does not take away other elements linked to the residential area that are to be done and that we are working to do them. It's very important, here we make a change of rates, but very exceptional. This, this decree, does not take out the presuppositional compromise that we have with the increase of tariffs. Now the very thing that we've just been hoping for would be fine, because we also have this compromise that a part of the increase in the margin of deficit that the Generality needs to have can be allocated to tariffs, which is the compromise that we have with the sector, and we're hoping to know that margin. If not, we'll have to pull it forward, but it's not to make two different orders with everything that it means for the Administration and for the functioning of the Administration. I think it's very important to place it to differentiate these two elements, because nobody has any doubts. I know that these questions came out at the meeting that the two secretaries did in order to explain the decree to the Members and Members, and in this sense, I wanted to make it very and very clear. We have commitments that we will develop, linked to the 2020 budget. We also continue to force ourselves to have the maximum state funding of the Law of Dependency, because we are honest and I have made it clear, until we have a much more just and much more powerful financing system, globally, around the Law of Personal Autonomy and Dependency, we will not be able to face up to the challenge in the sector. With a few challenges in the sector where the first element – this department is very clear – is the best of the working conditions of the sector, because it is also the best of the sector. And it's a clear-cut element. And that's what I wanted to make clear before I finished. It's a necessary contingency plan; it's a well-developed contingency plan; it's a contingency plan that everyone could add more aspects to, but from the pool of capabilities we have been well-developed, well-worked with the sector and it's going to allow us to address late and winter with many better conditions for the most vulnerable people before the Covid-19 pandemic. And in this sense, it gives us much more peace and quiet to be able to face this late and winter with the approved contingency plan, already developing as we are already developing, already working as we are working with the industry since the past, already with all the advanced aspects, and strengthening in all senses the social attention, health care, in the hardest aspect, more complex of the management of this pandemic. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.115.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, we turn to the intervention of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Naomi of the Street. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.116.0	I'm sorry, we've had technical problems with the mask... Good morning to everyone, the good one's already late, which are... I think they're already twelve of the middle. In the face of recent events, I would like to start this intervention, as I did in the first plenary session, after the decontainment, recalling that now more than ever we have to do politics in the highest form of the term 'political', as a public service and not as a struggle for power. Now more than ever, it is up to political forces to be part of the solution, not of the problem, for all citizens who have lost a loved one or who have gone very badly due to the virus or to all those who are extremely concerned, because they are therefore collective risk, right? And they don't know what's going to happen to them until a vaccine is found. Or, for all those people whom the virus has thus broken economically and left them without income. Because all those people who have lived up to the pandemic deserve us, their political representatives, too. And I say this because it embarrasses the spectacle this government gives with its internal struggles, while people pass them canuts out of this Parliament. I am also ashamed to see that the little work they do is not up to what citizens are doing. And this decree is an example. A few days ago, on Monday last week, I was able to visit the grandmother who remains alive for me in a residence and, despite the wonderful treatment of the workers, who deserve all my gratitude and admiration, I left there with my heart broken. The necessary protection measures in the residences are very much affecting residents, especially those who have cognitive impairment and who do not fully understand the scope of what is happening. From one day to the next, residences have become bunkers and visits have been restricted. And in the fifteen_minutes I could visit my grandmother, whom I couldn't hug, whom... because I couldn't see my smile behind the mask, or the kisses I was throwing at her, I witnessed her crying most of the time. And that breaks anyone's soul. And I do not complain about the strict measures of protection, I accept them because I know they are necessary to preserve the lives of the residents, what I complain about is that this Government is not up to the effort that these workers are making and the sacrifices of the residents and the families. Because, do you know what they call this decree in residences? They call it the Pontius Pilate decree, because they give them four hard ones and wash their hands. And the problem is that the contingency decree that contains this..., that is, the contingency plan that contains this decree, is that it has very serious errors. And one particularly worrying is that immediate response personnel are delegated to the centres. Or, in other words, the search for replacement staff that causes casualties. And that is a very serious mistake, that who should lead the creation and coordination of the bags of work, which in this case is the Generalitat, pass on a problem to those who already know of leftovers and in advance that they do not have the capacity to solve it. They can't say they don't know, because in the councilhouse they know for a fact that the centers don't have the capacity to replenish staff, because it's already passed. This has already happened. And if we allow this, do you know what will happen, if there's a new outbreak in the residences again? Those who suffer the most from neglect, right? , due to the lack of staff, it will be the elderly. And we'll have horrible press headlines again. And I don't know if any of those present have read the report of Doctors without Borders – because we now do the full ones reduced and we don't have here all the comrades who carry all these social issues – and they will see, in two months of intervention, Doctors without Borders gave support to 486 residences in Spain, two hundred of them in Catalonia. And I'm going to read you an excerpt from that report. They say: "On the staff of the residences, let us remember that the vast majority of residences were under minimum, because many of their assistants or other direct care personnel were on leave for contagion, suspicion and sometimes fear, why deny it. There were not enough staff in the residences and we ourselves were testimonies of how complicated it was that a call to offer a job ended up in an interest. ........................................................................................................................................................................... And I'm going to give you another reference. This same week we read in the press the complaint of a resident director who explains that no one wants to be part of a work bag in a residence without financial compensation waiting for them to be offered an uncertain job and, moreover, at risk of contagion. And it also explains how in the working lists of the public offices of occupation, what there is right now, the first week of September, there are 165 people in the bag of geriatric nursing auxiliaries, 200 nursing auxiliaries and 42 nursing staff. Only these people to meet the contingencies of 1,073 residences. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is what has happened and what must be prevented from happening again. And yet this decree condemns living the same history of terror in the residences, because the government, what it says to them with this decree is: "We give you this money, but you must have a work bag prepared. But putting in a document that has a work bag is not difficult, however, that, when the time comes, you call the people who are in that work bag and that they are available and willing to replace the casualty quickly and quickly, that is something else. And it's that paper supports everything, but reality, however, is not so pretty or so easy. And this, the Government knows, and that's why they wash their hands at the council, at the Pontius Pilates, and once again show their lack of interest in management, either because they don't want to or because they don't know, because it's big and they're overwhelmed and they're trying to get the issue out of hand, so with four hard ones that for the most they'll give it will be for a nice headline. But an administration in good condition, what it would do is disabling itself to try to coordinate as best as possible, to put solutions and not to put more problems. And you know perfectly well that one of the great problems that has occurred in the residences in this crisis of the Covid has been the lack of personnel. And the difficulty in resuming the job losses. And that has caused very serious situations of neglect that we have all seen in the press headlines. And instead of taking command and taking charge proactively of it as they have been asked from the sector, or as from Citizens we have been demanding of it insistently, instead of being in charge of creating labour exchanges of a regional scope, of carrying out training, of redirecting the staff of the SAD that was inoperative or of the closed day centers to the residences, leading the recruitment of staff, instead of doing that, once again, with this decree because they disagree. Knowing in advance that, if there is a resurgence in the residences again, they will be unable by themselves to replenish staff. And this is of tremendous irresponsibility. And it shows the lack of interest and a minimal appreciation for older people living in residences. And this government uses this decree to leave them abandoned again. And if we talk about funding, we have already seen how the disability sector has put the cry into the outraged sky. They qualify this shock plan as insufficient, which covers only between 16 and 36 percent of real spending and which, with it, are leading them to catastrophe. And this, two days ago, has been ratified again in these words, and what they are asking all parliamentary groups to do is to help solve the problems that this decree has. If this decree is passed, the government will have a nice headline, won't it? , a contingency plan for residences is approved, but the reality is that if the current original text is approved, what will be accepted is the disagreement of the Government, of this Government, with what happens in residences if there is a new rebound. And in Citizens we're not going to be accomplices signing them a blank check, with their history of mismanagement. The number of more than six thousand deaths in residences in Catalonia forces us to act responsibly and ask you to do so. This decree needs more concrete action and, at the moment, the work of monitoring the Government and coordination between the different parliamentary groups is more necessary than ever, because what is at stake are lives, human lives. For this reason, I have already told you that the Parliamentary Group of Citizens is going to request that this decree be treated as a bill, so that it can correct the rulings it has. And we also do so because we believe that, in relation to culture, the Government forgets the most important thing, which is, first of all, to ensure that the performance reaches the artists, authors, writers, musicians, who, the characteristics of the sector itself – which are the intermittentness and irregularity of income – have left them to infinity in a very precarious and very complex situation. And second, they forget to expand the endowment as much as necessary, so that everyone has access. Because, in many cases, this will be one of the few contributions you will receive for these first eight or nine months of this year. And the next few months aren't expected to improve, are they? in the situation in the sector. From Citizens we believe that what would be really interesting would be to make access to this aid much more flexible, so that they can access many more citizens to it, because many people in the cultural sector, because of the idiosyncrasy of the sector itself, it can be difficult to access the aid. It would not be too much if this aid went beyond the alarm period itself, since cultural activity is therefore far from being 100 per cent at present. Many public and private events have been cancelled, there are limitations of relief with strong restrictions that make cultural activity very limited, and that involves many workers of the culture without work and benefits. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I finish now; at this point, the citizens are exhausted, they deserve a government that governs them, that stops giving the unfortunate spectacle to which we are accustomed and that starts working truly for the citizen, once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Raúl Moreno, the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.118.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor... in any case, happy to take them back after this holiday period. Let's start a new session period – which still seems to indicate that it will be an intense session period – with a debate and approval of this new Decree 29/2020 of 28 July, which aims to start the deployment of the contingency plan to protect the residential environment from possible Covid-19 rebounds. And I say start the deployment because, if we see the content of the plan and the decree that is presented today, what we do is to develop a very small part – as the counselor said – of all the measures that reverse the same plan. And, therefore, we hope that there will be more decrees, that there will be a broader development of the plan to be presented by the Government in July. Before entering the content and the position, my group also wanted to thank the department for the briefing session that took place with the spokespersons of parliamentary groups – it took a long time. It was also done with the previous decree in August, which we approved, we discussed with the Permanent Chamber. It hasn't been like that these three years before, and so when things are good, so I think it's time to say it, too. And we hope that, from then on, those parliamentary initiatives that are being carried out in this Parliament by the Government will continue to be debated, you will talk to the parliamentary groups. And now, I'm going into the matter... because I am going to talk about the content of the decree. And in this case – and to sum up very briefly – this decree sets aside a series of economic increases to meet the additional costs generated by residential social services for both large and disabled people, as well as for paying for free places or moving residents from a residential recourse to others. They propose an increase of the rates to the residential centres of 196,30_euro per month per place of residents, from residential to large people and persons with disabilities; of 62,80_euro for which it makes to the residents; in the case of the day centre the increment is 60_euro; 62,80 for the day centres of occupational therapy and specialized care centres for persons with disabilities and, finally, of 31,40_euro for the day centres of occupational day. And what are these increments to be used for? The decree says so too. So to apply new measures of security and protection to residents, to bring to term additional sanitary and disinfection measures, specific purchase of protective material, organizational changes, adaptation to the new dynamics of visits and exits. And the decree specifies that it must be done with personnel of direct attention. And my group believes that these tasks should not necessarily be done with direct care staff, among other things, because when we talk about direct care we talk about those professionals – those professionals – who are directly caring for the person, the resident. But in order to make the tasks, in this case, of harsh additional sanitary measures and disinfection, the specific purchase of the material or organizational changes, it might also be possible to give the possibility to hire indirect personnel. And in any case, in practice, what this decree does is pose, make the same professional who attends to the person also have to look for a drill of his time to disinfect space or to buy self-protection material. Therefore, do not specify what percentage of this new payment must go to direct, indirect or appropriate attention of the spaces, which are not only to be disinfected, in many cases need a deep renewal, because there have been spaces that have had a tense capacity during the months of the Covid-19 that we have passed. Therefore, I, Mr. Counsellor, would suggest that you speak more about a certain polyvalence than strictly about direct care, also because residential equipment can adapt staff to concrete needs, which are different in each of the centers. On the other hand, I don't mean that imports seem to be insufficient. To us and also to the sector, since it is very far from the cost analysis that the sector did months after the Covid. But it is that, moreover, with these increments we consider that you will not be able to carry out your own contingency plan. The reminders that you proposed an increment of 15_percent of hierogulturists. That is to say, 1,800 hieroculators and auxiliary personnel more than there are, a cipher that is impossible to settle down with these increments. And neither does this decree refer to the reinforcement of the infirmary staff from twenty-four hours to the residences of more than sixty places. Even more so is the increase demanded by the disability sector, which considers that the government's plan to protect residential and day care centres is insufficient. Consider that the increase in rates that you propose only covers – said the deputy of Ciutadans – between 16 and 36 per cent of the actual expenditure involved in managing the Covid-19 for the care centres for people in this sector. But it is the difference between what the sector is asking for and what you are wearing today to approve, in some cases, up to 200_per_cent. This is just one example: you are proposing an increase of €62.80 for long-term residents and long-term residents, and the sector was claiming 371. Therefore, I know perfectly well how these negotiations went, the sector normally asks more than the administration is willing to offer, but it is that the disparity and the difference is so great that it may not be just..., or it is not due to this reduction only to a negotiation process. By the way, speaking of persons with disabilities, if I may, I would like to make a brief remark to warn you that the same way that you arrived late, from our point of view, with the criteria of returning to the school of our children, you also arrived late with the criteria of occupation of occupational centres. And I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, to be interested in the Occupational Centre and the La Muntanyeta Special Education School in Tarragona. The services have not been opened or after the end of the state of alarm statement, the Tarragona Assembly has not offered the special transport to which the students have right, the director of the center has decided not to open it because she is responsible for possible contagions, and the problems continue to the occupational center, since they cannot open or reopen the 14th due to lack of monitors. And it looks like the local inspector said they'd force the center to give them this service at home. Still, all folded up, a few days ago parents and their children don't know what's going to happen to them and I ask them to be concerned about this case, which is certainly a case that they can also see reproduced in other centers in the same sector. I'm going back to the decree. For what he does to the reserve of free seats, this part is what we least like about the decree for two reasons: because he contradicts something his government promised and because he leaves the residential sector unprotected. I'll explain. The centres must have a reserve of free seats, as many as they agree with their reference CAP. In fact, it is the beds of the wing, which in the plan says that, moreover, it must be between a 5 and an 8_percent of these beds. For these beds you will pay the 85_per_cent of the weighted average price of the service portfolio, not the cent_per_cent, as it was compromised in July and explained in this Faristol. We're down to 85 per cent. Therefore, first failure. But it's that, besides, you don't look at the rest of the empty seats in the residences either because they can't make us tickets, or if they make us tickets, it's because the directors or directors are responsible for these tickets. And, therefore, if 8_percent of beds are to be set free and no admissions can be made, how do you think that service providers can pay for the personnel needed to increase direct service? You won't be able to do it with 196 euros a month so that you increase the seats occupied. Not all of them are unoccupied. 196_euros, which, I remember, are not just for staff, as I explained to the principle. His secretary general explained to us, in addition, that during the state of alarm he did pay this cent of these places, but not now. And, therefore, I insist on the peril of the sector's support on the part of its government. And finally, for what it does to Chapter 2 of the Decree, which refers to the amendment of Decree 21/2020, of urgent economic measures, for which it makes the world of culture and the cover of other costs of basic sub-administrations, we find it correct. Also the measures that the counselor explained to us in relation to childhood, and, therefore, nothing to say. Well, let's just say..., nothing to say because it's the first measure, from the point of view of the culture sector, that we see reality after so many months, because if anything this government has forgotten it's the culture sector during all these months of Covid-19. And, therefore, to a single measure, even though it seems insufficient to us, it is not us who pose it. In summary, the decree that presents us proposes an insufficient increase in tariffs, under our point of view, in order to reach the demands of increment of the staff that the same Government backs on its plate; which, moreover, is an increment for the pandemic period, after we return to the imports that have proved to be absolutely insufficient. And I am grateful, moreover, that the Councillor has clarified that we will have this debate or that this debate will be held with the sector in another decree, and we hope that it will soon be possible to bring us here so that we can approve it. And, therefore, I believe that it would be better to take advantage of, more importantly, or that it would have taken advantage of this decree to develop other aspects of the plan that at these times we consider to be important and urgent. And, moreover, considering that today the data have come out that Catalonia is the penultimate autonomous community spending per person living in social policies and, therefore, we should make every effort to try to increase, above all this government, Catalonia's social spending. Therefore, we will not vote against an increase in tariffs proposed by the Government, because we understand that the situation is so critical that any increase is positive. It will not be for us that the sector does not have a certain oxygen to pull forward and improve its pocket to protect large people or people with disabilities. And, therefore, we consider that a abstention by our parliamentary group [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] adjust more to the content of the decree and allow – and I finish, president –, if the majority do not change it, that it comes forward with this decree, but at times it also warns that with its content only the first stone of a long way is laid that must actually run to situate our residential services to the place they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.120.0	Well, good morning. Obviously we agree with the will expressed by the preamble of this decree explained to the counselor. We need to facilitate all the tools we can to ensure that the residents, both large people and people in the disability or mental health sector, give rapid response, effective response, modular, before we can emerge from Covid in these centers. Also for the day centers, special attention, of these sectors. And in this context, the services..., in order to be able to give this good service, this good and modulated response, must focus above all on intensifying security measures, minimizing risks and ensuring good attention to residents, and this also depends on the rates of professionals there is. This can only ensure that there is all the material, all the conditions sufficient to minimize these risks, and, as I said, the personnel of direct assistance, necessary, to be able to give this good service. In this sense, we positively value the idea of making an additional monthly payment per place or per user for these services, conditional on what is intended for these purposes: safety, hygiene and personnel measures. We carry, in fact, all these months, from the beginning of the Covid crisis, we get complaints and we get petitions from the managers of these concerted or subsidized services that were to be assuming so far all this cost. This about assumptions that were much in crisis after two years of tariff freezing; assumptions of the managers of these services, in reference. I therefore believe that it is important to recognise this law and to make up, as a minimum, for the cost of Covid expenses, both for material elements such as safety, hygiene and personnel. But we agree with the sector, which is becoming insufficient. With what is fixed by the figures in this decree, in all sectors, especially in the disability sector..., all sectors had made their calculations on what this cost was, and we find that for the figures and amounts that have been set to compensate for these expenses, especially for the disability sector or for the day centres of large people, they are short, these compensations, to compensate for the actual costs that the sector has incurred for them. In fact, since the disability sector has already been said, they have made it public, and they have said that compensation, long-term, compensates them for a 30_percent of what they have already assumed as extra costs. Therefore, our reflection: if the quantity is insufficient, probably, in this will that we tell them that we agree, they are deficient. They may not be effective enough, with these help, with insufficient numbers. But the hardest part is that it's raining on the ground, because both the large people's sector, such as disability, and residential services for people with mental health disorders have come from two years of tariff freezes that get paid, and therefore from a presuppositionary tension and very important expenses. In this sense, we do not want to miss the occasion to claim it, counselor, all that has already made reference in his intervention, which is already concrete the increase of ordinary rates of these services. It is a compromise with us in the adoption of assumptions of 47_million euros more, if we add up to what already provided for by the Government, what we added up to it and what could be added from the flexibility of the deficit limit, 47_million euros more for this year to increase tariffs in these sectors. We know they're working on it, the counselor just confirmed it, but this has to be closed now. It's closed already, because the reality that this sector is complaining about isn't just about the extra expense that Covid's spent on them, but about all the tension they've had in mind. Therefore, the complexity is to treat it in all these aspects and to hold the two friends. We call this decree law, we would be warmer than it was in higher amounts, which is compensated for Covid expenses, but we also call the nine tariffs for these sectors. In short, we understand that this decree in this respect is a recognition of extraordinary expenses caused by the Covid that is lacking, but that better than what had been done so far, that was either uncertain or unsure. But this, moreover, has to be accompanied as soon as possible, and we urge them to do so, of the best of the sector's ordinary tariffs, of these sectors. I also want to refer to the other points that appear in this law. Obviously, we do not find any respect for the modifications in order to be able to maintain with all the guarantees the measure that already existed, since the Decree Law 11/2020, of 7 April, to facilitate the family attachment to children and adolescents who by reason of the Covid must be separated from their family nucleus. But on the other hand, we do want to be critical and re-strike the government so they can go back to Chapter 2 about helping the culture sector. They're doing a modification of what was in Decree 21, June 2, to help the cultural sector. And we want to stretch them out of the edges basically in three aspects. One, because this change shows that Decree 21 was done very badly, with a lack of awareness of the precariousness of the sector and of the autonomies of this sector, especially, and with limited mass demands, which turned that help into a dumb paper, which gave answer to a very low number of affected people. Now change it to try to get part of those people who were left out, who'll refuse help, can access it. But when? There it was a help to compensate for a few months of absolute maturity of economic activity and no admissions. And now we're six months later, or four months later, trying to solve what didn't work out at the time it went down. According to what we want to do with the government, and in this case the Department of Culture, is the diffusion of the measure. These helpers gave answers to very few people, from one band because there were many denials, as I explained, but above all because, moreover, there was a very low number of requests respect to which the Government itself expected. And now they have repeated the error with this new decree approved by the end of July. Because, if not, how do you understand the data that the same ex-Culture counselor was giving last week in a radio interview? He said that they calculated, from the government and from the Department of Culture, that this help could be welcomed by some six thousand people. They're just over, because the aid's over and the deadline's over by the end of August, 1,500. Poorly planted the help of the iniciators, restrictive mass, poorly communicated or little communicated, and not even resolving it with a new decree they have not achieved the objective. The third element of earring is evidence, seeing these other two previous ones, which also with the cultural sector, as it happens in so many other sectors or with the local world, this government meets with people but does not dialogue, does not negotiate, does not negotiate, does not co-manage. He communicates, he meets, and, luckily, he informs you of the things he will do. If things are done with real collaboration with the sectors, they will not do as badly as these cultural aids have done. In summary, above all this decree, because of Covid's lack of extra expenditure coverage for the dependency sector, as well as our understanding and sharing that they are very necessary, and because of the lack of effort and efficiency of these aids for the cultural sector, we will abstain from this decree. They are necessary measures, but again, very bad girls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.122.0	So good afternoon to all of you. Let me see if I'm able to make the intervention with a mask, or else the president will dispense me with the functions of his use. First of all, we want to state that we disagree with the essential content of this decree that we can divide into two great contents: the one that refers to residences and day centres, and the one that refers to the performance for workers and workers in the world of culture and the arts. And we do not agree, above all, with the first part, that it refers to residents as large as people with decrease and day centers, because it does not address what is the essence of what caused an absolute col·lapse last spring, obviously with greater virulence for the Covid-19 but that it was a situation that was already given before the Covid-19. I do not address three questions which are essential for us. A first, model. They still call us the attention that, at last, they have seen with some directions of some residences – it is not generalization, it is some concrete – and even they have fled, they have resigned from managing the residences. Interventions were made, but there was no public management of these residences from the department or departments. Therefore, they no longer raise or only a matter of recovering public management in general terms. According to the question, for us, financing is fundamental. We would be through a public cent_per_cent management, but until he is a gift, we think that indirect management must also have adequate financing. And in this decree, we want to insist, there is no change in funding, we don't touch modules, we don't touch those elements that determine what is paid to those who manage directly but we fix a sum linked to the existence of the Covid-19 and, therefore, we place ourselves precisely in the same organic reality that caused so much virulence the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. The third element that for us was also essential and that could, unfortunately, be this context an opportunity to reverse it: the salaries of the workers and the workers. Don't even talk about it. Nor does it refer, and we also think that this is an essential issue. It is for all this, with these three elements, obviously, that we will not vote in favour of this decree, of its validation. We think it's absolutely insufficient and, yes, we have to see what it's about. To explain it in a very flat way – and they will forgive me, perhaps, that it is not entirely strict – a certain amount linked to the existence of the effects of the Covid-19, with... – and I do not venture to say « finality, but yes a generic» – we are talking, for a band, of EPIS, of direct personnel, and, for another band, of hygienic measures in relation to the Covid. But we want to make a double criticism of this, which is the essence of the decree. For a band, the numbers are insufficient. And it's not just this parliamentary sub-group, it's just that there's a lot of entities that they manage. And, for another band, we are very concerned that there is no mechanism in place to control how this is done. They can tell us: "Yes, there is an inspection, but we already know how the inspection works with respect to this sector, whether it's with the residents or the day centres. And, therefore, it is a totum, a sum that will be transferred and that will not serve us so alone to be able to control or see what mechanisms we have to be able to see if these amounts really are devoted to these three elements that determine that it must be, in any case, the one that is loaned. In this band, we also want to make a criticism that is another element that is called free seats and their payment. A priori, we may not be against it, but we find ourselves with the same problem: they do not accompany it with other measures, such as maintaining the occupation of workers and workers, or a control of how it will be done, and therefore gives us the feeling that there will be no mechanism by which, after, from the public entity, it will control. And of which, obviously, we are absolutely against this element that, through a decree, you tend to enable the emergency contract. We're talking about transportation, or displacement, better said, to be strict, of this center. Whatever it takes... if it's urgent, they do it now, and if it's not urgent, we'll find each other. It seems to us that we will find ourselves with the first example that one of the great companies, therefore, will have a contract practically said and, therefore, we can only be against it. Then, the other matter that regulates this decree, which refers to the performance of the workers of culture and the arts in general. Mirin, who already seemed insufficient to us, both for the period – from March 14th to May 6th – but, as a matter of fact, what you now incorporate, therefore, outweighs a defect which was to give the consideration of "deserved not to pay this benefit, and replace it effectively" collected. And, for that matter, it's getting better. It is insufficient because they establish the CIHR as the only amount of the benefit, for a very concrete period, not later, but as the least better. And it is for all this, obviously, that we will abstain from this decree and, we insist, ask that it be dealt with as it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of MP Esperanza García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.124.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselor, good morning. Imprevision, indefinition, ineffectiveness and insufficiency. Set out everything that has characterized the management of the Covid pandemic in relation to residential centers. That has been the performance of the Government over the past six months, and this decree, despite those six months that have passed, and I believe that many lessons have been learned, because it is practically the same. Because after suffering such a drama of losing more than four thousand older in those residential centers, and having more than 17,672 people diagnosed in geriatrics, you continue with that same tonic of indefiniteness, inefficiency and, above all, insufficiency. « Indefinition, because they again leave the solutions absolutely in the air. In this decree, too. And I'm talking about emergency recruitment in cases of emergency and need for contagion transfer. Are we going to see workers in these centres again outnumbered by a situation of contagion without being able to offer solutions to the elderly or disabled in the transfer and health care centre? We believe that it is, because this decree does not, of course, put the concrete, determined and sufficiency solution that requires a situation of possible resurgence, and that, unfortunately, we cannot rule out today. Because, indeed, as has been said from this Faristol, residential and dependent centers are not bunkers. Indeed, they have workers who do normal work, with visits that are still allowed because the pandemic has given some relief and can be carried out. But, in any case, nothing is disposable after the drama suffered in these centers. We also say that it is 'inefficient and insufficient' because, apart from this emergency procurement, this decree therefore contains a number of additional costs incurred in these centres by cost increases, both in the purchase of protective equipment and in special hygiene measures, etc., as well as those free places which have to be reserved for new bursts. And we say this because these post-financing complements are clearly insufficient, according to their own data. Only if you had taken your own data... – not what the sector says, your own data –, if you, from Catalan health, acknowledge that you have increased health costs by ten – by ten – in relation to the purchase of personal protective equipment for your healthcare staff, how it is possible that, then, when you try to supplement the costs to the geriatric and disabled residential centers, you do not apply that same rule. Because you're applying a 50-million-euro supplement here. Fifty million euros that you reflect in the memory that they are not own resources, that is, that they are an extraordinary contribution that the State makes, precisely, to remedy those deficiencies that have had the centers and those costs that have had the centers. That is, where is the Generalitat's effort to provide these residential centres and those geriatrics and disability centres with more resources? Because I don't see it. Not only do I not see it, but you recognize it in that very memory, recognizing that with the current budgets that you have, approved four days ago, you cannot have new resources to finance those overcosts. Moreover, in the case of social economy business associations and the entire disability sector, there are even 183_per_cent deficiencies in these resources; in addition, in the case of day care, between 200 and 460_per_cent. Look, the sector has made a superhuman and often economically unsustainable effort; they have removed and given up many things so as not to leave our elders unattended. We are not going to prevent you from improving, even if it is insufficient, indeterminate and inconcrete that improvement. But, of course, what we are not going to allow is for you to pass this decree with the ease that you are doing things right, because you are not doing it. We are going to ask that it be treated as a bill, because we believe that the shortcomings it contains, even you, as a government, cannot afford them, but above all none of us, as a society, can allow catastrophe to happen again in those centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then it's the group's turn. [[Funnel veils]] ... – no, no; say thank you, MP –, it's still the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and it has the word MP Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.126.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, let's take the course and do it even without being able to fill the hemisphere, because we are still immersed in a harsh context that forces us to take all the measures that are in our hands to ensure the safety of everyone. And that's what the government does, day by day, without rest, and this decree is not an exhibition. But before I speak in detail of the point that now affects us, I too, as did Naomi of the Street, want to bring my solidarity to all those people who have already been touched by them living in the first person the darkest part of this pandemic, and I also want to take advantage of it to give thanks to all those people who, in the hardest moments of the pandemic, were at the edge of the dog, and who are still there: health personnel, transporters, informatics, pagesia, autonomes, commercials and, in particular, all those professionals in the field of social and residential services. As you know, this health-emergency situation is affecting more aggressively various vulnerable communities, among which are large people, especially those who are at home..., or tend to be at the residential center, as long as, due to their advanced and often pathological status, vulnerability is still higher. But, even so, they will agree with me that the situation has blacked out the fragility of our model, as we have already discussed enough in the monogrampic debate of July, but we also found that instead of the world it was preparing to face a situation of this characteristic; no country, no territory, no government, no necessary tools or protocols, but that they have adapted to the discovery of how the virus was acting and evolving. But that debate did not only serve to make an analysis and diagnosis of the situation; it also made commitments, and we all made commitments here. The same councillor has made commitments, which he has also reiterated to his intervention, to make it clear that all his department would do everything in its power to deal more effectively and responsibly with the management of this crisis that we are experiencing. And we obviously consider from the Republic Group that this decree is not an exhibition. A decree, therefore, which responds to the councillor's commitment and its department to protect the most vulnerable people and guarantee the services during the months that we are now living and that will surely come, because, despite having passed the first hardest impact, the battle has not yet ended, and can learn from all that lived and act accordingly. Specifically, this decree forms part of the deployment of the contingency plan, as the advisor explained, and it has as its objective to secure the entrances to the centre and to provide coverage to any person who is in a vulnerable situation. One of the actions contemplated by the statement is the reservation of empty places to residents, in order to increase their ability to give response in advance of possible contagion, as well as the reservation of support spaces, with the aim of separating healthy people from the contagions, and thus to give proper attention to it. With the approval of this decree, moreover, in order to guarantee the system of payment of residential centres, it will also be guaranteed in the centres of care for persons with disabilities, centres for persons with mental disabilities, day centres for large people, centres of occupational therapy, and also occupational day centres for persons with disabilities. So, too, there is a monthly increase to be able to cope with the additional costs, as the counselor has explained – some of the companies that have preceded me have also explained – that can be generated in these centers because of the management of the pandemic. Some of the measures that increase this cost and that will be covered by this decree are the need to acquire personal protective equipment, to strengthen the hiring of direct auxiliary personnel and additional hygiene measures. In addition, the support devices will be reinforced to move residents giving coverage to those who have to mediate emergency contracts. And, as far as day-care activities are concerned, we also want to point out that alternative spaces or community equipment are being adapted, that they will be compatible and complement the necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of all people, following the fact that it has already been tougher to finish during all the toughest months of confinement. Members and Members of Parliament, before the exceptional situation that has affected our lives, we must be brave and take on the responsibilities that surround us, and so did the street MP, right? We have to face the debates as they are today in a more serious way or, better said, in the more serious way possible and leave the short and partisan look on one side. And to do this, therefore, means that we are responding to what is being asked of us by the citizenry, that is to say that we are clearing folds and that we are addressing the needs of this pandemic. And in this case I believe that part of this solution would be the approval of this decree. And that's why I asked them, during the negotiation period of this decree, as the deputy who supports the government group, that you also assume the responsibility to give this answer and vote in favour. Finally, I would like, and taking advantage of a few years of experience as an occupation technique and responding a little to the needs of the sector at staff level..., plus, a sector that is a very important occupation for the citizenry; an occupation, as we also said in the monographic debate that we did about residences and in which we also made a proposal for a resolution on the feminization of the sector and the fragility of the sector... To say that, unfortunately, the occupational training offered by the different groups together, the different centres that support the occupational training programs subsidized and that holds the SOC, all of the departments that the people here in charge of the work, and all of the people who are in charge of the final work, are able to do so. I mean, it's an occupation area where people fit in. I, respect the labour exchanges, all the municipalities or most of the municipalities that have a certain number of inhabitants have their local employment service bag, and, respect the labour exchanges, there are also those of the regional council. I mean, it's a sector that has a high level of occupation, and surely what we need is more people who want to train and work in this area. And just, therefore, thank all the negotiation process that I have had with all the Members and Members and say, Mr Counselor, that we do agree and that we support, obviously, as it cannot otherwise be, this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, and has the word of Congresswoman Elena Fort.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.128.0	Good morning, President; thank you very much. Counselor... At first place, I allow myself to give the welcome, even though there are not physically in this Parliament, personally and also on behalf of the group, to the Counselor Tremosa, to the Counsellor Samper and to the Consteller Ponsa, and to wish them all the luck in this new task. Remind them that they have all our support on the coming days, that sense of doubt will not be easy. And a recognition and acknowledgment to Councillor Buch, Councillor Chacón and Councillor Vilallonga, councillors and outgoing councillors, for whom neither were easy people. Well, I'll come in and talk about the decree. A few weeks ago we found all of us in this very hemisphere to talk, analyze, collate and make country proposals to respond to the situations generated by the pandemic, and especially we wanted to do so in relation to the residents of large people and the care of the most vulnerable. It was an intense and responsible debate, in which we would be able to recognize that there were things that had not been done well; well, that had been done badly directly. And we want to extrude between all the good proposals. And especially we will find a common area of understanding, a consensus, among others, to change the model, to hear the healing of people as the fundamental principles of public policies and, consequently, to prioritise the strengthening of public services. Once overtaken the episode of the initial pandemic and of the initial emergence, to continue working, to review in depth the current care system and to take advantage to build a new model, a model that meets the needs of cures, not only from the residential perspective, and a model that incorporates the social dimension of the residence as far as the resident is concerned. It is essential to advance in the design of a proposal for comprehensive and person-centred social and health care. The pandemic, however, has not lasted, years on the contrary, and now we know that it has come to stay with us for a while. Cal, then, act and make concrete decisions, which is what this decree does. For a band, and as an essential element of the decree, in this context of exceptionality still, and having present the viscudes experiences, the departments of Health and Work, Social Affairs and Families have concreted in the specific contingency plan a set of measures to deal with the Covid-19 and intervene in advance, in anticipation of the new buds to the residential centers. These measures relate to the prevention of the occurrence of infection and protection of professionals, early detection of public health infection, health care in the territorial area, social care and order and strengthening of the residential area and information systems. We need to give an answer to these new protocols and these new requirements for health authorities, a response that passes by adopting new additional measures of security and protection for residents, new hygienic and disinfection measures, specific purchase of protective material, organizational changes, adaptation to the new dynamics of visits and exits, increase of human resources and direct care, modification and intensification of turn times. And all these measures involve increasing expenditure. In concrete terms, and to summarise – all that is already explained and specified in this Ple – for example, the increase of 196,30_additional euros for placing in the public service network, to strengthen the personnel of direct care, mainly geroculturator, and auxiliary personnel, for the purchase of PPE and intensification of hygiene measures; increase of 62,80_euro for placing in residences for persons with disabilities and long-term support for persons with social problems arising from mental illness, from the public sector; increase also in subsidies for placing in the day centres of the great people, in the day centres of occupation and insertion, or in the day centres of occupational therapy. Or run spaces and reserve seats. These are concrete measures, concrete moneys, and are intended to deal with these effects. For another group, the decree also contemplates another question to resolve, which is the sharp health crisis, which at times caused, for reasons of isolation, situations of involuntary separation of parents and guardians under treatment in quarantine from their children and underage children. Already in the Law 11/20 was provided an economic benefit of emergence for this accolade, and, however, to maintain this possibility to extend its validity, and, therefore, to extend the payment and, therefore, the presuppositional endowment. Another important issue, too, was the lack that had been detected and donated and that many people had suffered in the cultural sphere. It therefore called for measures to be taken to support professionals in the performing arts, visual arts, music and audiovisual sectors. That is why this government on July 28 approved this Decree – a very long name, which I will not repeat, but which we have here on the table – 29/2020, with the objective of providing presuppositionary measures for all these concrete measures which are now being considered and which we are now going to validate. These measures, in accordance with the economic memory of the Directorate-General for Personal Autonomy, may range from EUR 50_million up to EUR 57_million, and with the fact that the Government of Catalonia, in concrete terms the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, cannot assume a quantity like this of its assumptions, it will be able to finance it with the Covid-19 funds, created and regulated by the Royal Legislative Decree 22/20, provided for the presuppostaris credits, which will have to be rested in its day, when the transfers from the State are collected. In short, we are here to validate some necessary measures to be taken, as we have all been able to agree, and to respond in any case to what we have talked about in this Parliament, and which I have also referred to the principle of intervention, to what they all compromised: to pull forward, to change the model, to take action, to age for people and their needs and to put them at the centre of all public policies. Insufficient? Yeah, but you'd need it, too. That's why we're voting for validation together for Catalonia. But after listening to all his interventions – that's a classic in Parliament, and I suppose it's a dynamic that will forever be, but in any case I think I need to take it into account – I don't want to end this intervention without leaving any new consciousness in this hemisphere and in front of all my fellow citizens of shame that is perpetual any more than the generality's infra-financing, and in particular our social services, in the face of the voluntary abandonment of the Spanish State. The Government of Catalonia should be able to take all the measures and assume the extraordinary expenditure that we have talked about today, which we have discussed for itself, because that is what the citizens want and what they need. All my fellow Members, the needy of the parliamentary groups that have shown reticence, have complained of the insufficiency. So yes, it's obviously insufficient, because we don't have enough resources to give it all and to help and get to all and every one of the points. We continue to place them, therefore, in all the parliamentary groups of this Parliament, as we have always done and will continue to do, to demand from the Government of Spain a just financing and payment of the historical debt so that the Generality can give an answer in person to the needs of its citizens, if not until we become an independent state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say'm, counselor. You want to intervene in relation to the initiative, I understand, huh? Therefore, the word has the advisor Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.130.0	In the first place, I take the compromise to be quick and brief, but before the interventions I think it is worth the first time to use this power that the Government has to ask for the word to place some aspects that I think are important. The decree is not the residence contingency plan. I think it's important, because maybe I haven't explained it well, and it's very important to situate it. The decree to which it responds in its Chapter 1 is to some of the aspects of the contingency plan to be approved by decree, and in this case to elements linked to the financing of the residential sector. It is important..., now is not the deputy Aragonese, Vidal Aragonès, of the CUP, because he placed it: « How would we control it? There is a government agreement in which we grow..., we make the programme of 217 professionals in the territories that allows us this follow-up and reinforcement of the Inspectorate of Social Servants – to give an example. Or other aspects related to the health field of the primary that are not in this decree, because when we presented the contingency plan..., there are some parts that need to be placed by decree, and there are no others that can be placed by other ways – the one in the contract program has been placed by government's agreed-, because we have other ways, and I think it's very important to place it. And from here on in, let's give them support. This contingency plan in the residential area means more than 100_million euros, adding up to everything that does Salut and what does the department in different areas. God says: "Do we need more resources? Absolutely okay. We help each other, we place ourselves, because we don't have them, because we don't have them. Because if I remember that in the social sphere there have been 300 million more – now these 3,000 will come – but they have been located in the health field, in the field of education, but it has not come out the social sphere, absolute more open, because I believe that what I am left is this ability to situate it, in all spheres. You spoke about the situation in the disability sector. This year we have finally been able to find out how much of the sectoral conference for the special work centres, because they have written it, the government, finally, and thank this transparency, the government of the State, 15_millions, has located it. Up to the 100 we invest, we're likely not to invest, and that's also a policy for people with disabilities. And we have to situate it... so let's look for these elements in which we can situate ourselves. I think the most important thing is that it will come out open, the decree will come out, which is absolutely necessary. I also remember, and I don't want to get into polemics, but I also situate myself: on the map made by the resident employer of the State, assessing whether there is a contingency plan, whether there are professional and resident RCPs, whether there is a plan to pay the extra costs that have been incurred in the residential area, the only territory that went out in green was Catalonia; Valencia Country, the two Castles, in taronja, the Basque Country, and Madrid, Andalusia, Aragó and Extremadura in vermell. I'm also saying that because we have to position it as well. And from here absolute disposition. But he did think it was the key to the debate that we had to place... The decree is a part, but there are other mechanisms that allow us to regulate everything that the contingency plan means in residences. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.131.0	Thank you, Counselor. This intervention regularly comes back, and I don't know if any parliamentary group wants to use it. [[Pause.]] So we took four minutes. We'd have less than a minute, huh? Therefore, the first word is Mr Moreno, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, by order, I understand that they correspond to the Ciutadans Group in the first place. I'm sorry I didn't see you. There's a word for the street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.132.0	From the escó. Well, we reiterate that what we are most concerned about..., and we have done a number of things, but we are very concerned about Article 3, which details this benefit, aren't we? , that increase of EUR 196_. The problem is that it is subject to..., direct care personnel, protective measures, the whole issue of cleaning, but it is subject to instructions from the competent body of the department. We keep thinking this is a blank check, okay? Because we do not know what measures it is conditional on, we do not know if more is going to be required than these 196_euros are going to give. And what worries us above all: the main thing is not solved, which is the replacement of staff. As much as formations are made, as much as there is some local work bag, we know perfectly well that the residences will not have that capacity, and if there is again an outbreak of Covid in the residences I do not want to see more elderly people unattended, I do not want to see images like the one we have seen today of a residence of Valencia, which is not of the community of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.133.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.134.0	...but it's happened here too. And this is..., for this reason we will continue to ask that you be treated as a bill...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.135.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.136.0	...to heal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.137.0	Then, now, Congressman Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.138.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you said: "We don't have the resources. All of us have said that the imports you are making to this decree are insufficient – we and the same sector. I think they do have the resources, like you at least, what happens is they don't put them there where we'd probably put them. They had resources to put EUR 43,000 into private health care, and I think that with this same objective it would also have to be possible to make the social sector, even if it is once during its legislatures, to have a just financing also in Covid's time. I don't repeat the 15_million euro, the state, the sectoral conference again, because even they've done what they did last year, it's that the sector is meeting with the ministry because they explain exactly what we'll have, and we'll have the same thing as we had the previous year, but you can continue to say what you think is appropriate. I, miri, have banded with the rates that you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.139.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.140.0	I'm done. To inform that from dilluns it seems that there is a possibility that the centers can make us tickets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.141.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.142.0	I think we're late, Counselor. And, therefore, we should try to fill in the lack of these tickets that have been held in these months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.143.0	Finally, Congresswoman Marta Ribas has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.144.0	Thank you. So yes, very briefly, they admit, therefore, that resources are insufficient. Help us grow these. We have increased this year's assumption by EUR 47_million to raise tariffs, so please apply it. The State has made extraordinary contributions to make it easier for you to make this decree law, that you can make extraordinary help for the Covid. Now they're supposed to the state, approve them. If you had voted for 2019, there would have been now, there would have been some assumptions with a 60_per_cent more depending. You didn't want to approve. I don't make the same mistake again. There may be more resources. We're helping each other out. Put yours on your side, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I don't know if there was any intervention in the subgroups of the Mixt Group. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the groups of the majority of the Government. Congresswoman... has the words of Congresswoman Najat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.146.0	Thank you, Vice President. We have seen, let's say, the study that places us with Catalonia that really does not..., we are, the residences are prepared, respect the rest of the State, to be able to face up to the protection, let's say, of the people before the Covid, of which the Councillor was speaking, but it is true that we also claim, as you said, that in complicated times we have to assume responsibilities. So taking responsibility means talking and negotiating which is the best solution to provide resources for our services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.147.0	Thank you. Now, that's the end of the order of the day. [[Decree-Law No 30/2020 of 4 August, establishing the specific sanctioning regime for failure to comply with health prevention and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by the Covid-19]] [[203-00055/12]] We move on to point 3, which is the debate on the validation of Decree No. 30/2020, of 4 August, for which the specific sanctioning regime for the failure of preventive measures and sanitary containment to deal with the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 is established. According to Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place the Councillor of Health will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the councillor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.148.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, as announced in the order of the day, we present the Decree Law 30/2020 for which a specific sanctioning regime is established for the compliment of preventive measures and sanitary containment to deal with the health crisis for the Covid-19. Why? Because it is a specific crisis, because it is a crisis that impacts us especially, because this pandemic of Covid-19 has configured itself as a challenge not only to our country, but to the world, and because we are ahead of times when we are also close to providing maximum clarity, solutions and determination in all the actions we owe to the government. It requires determined action on the part of all public administrations and specific measures to preserve public salvation, protect the rights to life, to physical integrity and to the salvation of people. This is the soul that moves us in all these months and that this also has to be incorporated into this sanctioning rule. We need the collaboration and cooperation of all public authorities and of all citizens. It's a response to an epidemic that sees the whole community. It goes from all and, obviously, also from the responsibilities that we have each other as public powers and put life and salvation at the centre. We have always said – and so I think it has proved – that the health system puts all the tools that are at its bottom – and more that has to be invented, developed and determined in these past months – in order to cope with this spread of the epidemic. But this spread of the epidemic does not stop it from the primary and hospitals, but with a work of the whole community. It is our responsibility, therefore, of everyone, that it is not to pass on any responsibility. It's not a responsibility, on the contrary. Corresponsabilize us, how? Empowering the citizenry, giving all the information so that these measures are well understood that all of us are bound to – and so much good was not so – propose for all and all of us to be able to control this epidemic. It is a solid reaction of citizenry to protect us among ourselves, not individually, but it is a solid action and public safety and to protect the most vulnerable people as well as respect the Covid. Therefore, it is not only a matter of implementing measures or much less of explaining prohibitions – I think this is very important to highlight it in this way – but it is a matter of using all the instruments that are in our abyss to help control the epidemic, to help clarify messages, so that they can help us manage these months that from then on they will also come, which will not be easy, in which the virus will not go. Therefore, for the use of these legal instruments that the legal order always foresees is done with a premise that I believe is essential and must always move us, that is the proportionality of all these measures. And on the basis of that we have tried to act, and on the basis of that we explain it to the citizenry, and on the basis of that we make the reports that go to court to apply these measures with a clear objective, which is this decree. Because we already have standards, we already have standards in our order that give us the capacity to develop these measures and sanctions, but we believe that in a few moments as we are to be clarified as much as possible. The sanctioning regime exists scattered in different regulations and in this struggle against the Covid, this represents a complexity attached both to the citizenry and to the own Administration, the own administrations that have competence to respect this. Therefore, improve legal certainty, clarify and detail the regime of infringements and sanctions relating to the compliment of preventive and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by the Covid, offences that we divide between leus, heavy, very heavy. Those who have an impact or who can produce a risk or damage to the safety of the population when the failure carries a risk of contagion for a maximum of fifteen persons, when it is of gravity with different types up to a maximum of one hundred and fifty persons, and then also those proposals for sanctions that can be characterized as very difficult. And, on the other hand, the sanctioning organs that correspond to the assemblies of Catalonia, the General Council of Aran, the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia and all in its areas of competence in the oversight, inspection and control functions provided for by this decree are established. So, trying to get everyone to have the margins required by the law, that's why we also proposed this delegation to the assembly of Catalonia, in order not only to initiate dispatches, but also to do the whole process of sanctioning those missing lei, except the General Council of Aran and the Assembly of Barcelona which, by municipal charter and by its legal order, have competence to go further beyond these lei sanctions. The regulatory change we are looking for is that I strengthened the functions of the Emergency Surveillance Service of Catalonia. Taking advantage of this decree, we could also strengthen this SUV – the Emergency Emergency Surveillance Service of Catalonia – for multidisciplinary health personnel. And this helps us to get much better at everything and, therefore, in this situation – as I said – of great complexity in which in a few months we have had to deal with many things. What we are trying to do above all is to explain ourselves well in the face of citizenship, to complete the measures we are taking today, the measures we are setting up, that we are looking at in the data, day and day, not to see which places are the ones that are growing and to try to apply measures in advance when they are better, before this growth does not impact us more forcefully, but to try this anticipation that we have always wanted and sought, this proposal for measures seeks nothing more than to explain this solid action that we have to have in our society to protect ourselves. To fail these measures today only brings us to more propagation and to more restrictions tomorrow, and that's important. It is to say, anything that affects personal freedom or affects the way of life of any person or, above all, those that also affect economic activities is not intended nor is it because it is, but it is to try to anticipate it in the least possible degree because we do not become restrictive measures the day after. And I want to put some examples of this, without wanting to expand: on March 23rd we had a bit of a number of Covid-19 cases in Catalonia with 2,317 positive people. That day, this corresponded to 3,716 PCRs. Therefore, the majority of PCRs that we had the ability to do then are practically confirmed all of them. At that time, we had 636 people entering the ICU, who had already exceeded the basic capacity we had installed. In the week of 17-23 the risk of rebound exceeded four hundred and we had an RT, which at that time we did not calculate – it still did not form part of those indexes that the WHO said we should look at – two and a half. Fourteen days later, on April 6th, we had the peak of ICUs in Catalonia with 1,528 people entering a bed of reviews. The 24th of August we had 1,482 positives of 17,147 PCRs that day. The difference is very great; 146 at the ICU and the week, therefore, was at risk of rebound of two hundred and an RT of 1.6. Fourteen days later we're keeping 148 people in the ICU. With this I mean that from these months on, the epidemic has changed a lot. We have had the ability to equip ourselves with many tools – many tools – to control this epidemic. The ones that come from the same health system and the ones that were very strong in those moments of total confinement. We explained and told the citizenry that it was about learning to live together for one day to reduce this virus. But we had to learn that during the months we would have to live with this virus and that at this stage of the dam we would have to organize the entire society to adapt to this situation of living in an epidemic. These measures are only modular, aren't they? This living in an epidemic follows a certain epidemiological situation. We need them to act, but they are not, in any case, the panacea. Now, applying the measures, if necessary, needs to clarify the standards and needs to be able to explain it to the citizenry. That's what we're going to do. We depend a lot on the community, we rely on this common response as a society that gives it an epidemic of these characteristics. I'm not getting any wider. Probably, as a political debate, it is not the most interesting this decree law, but it is one of the most important tools we have, not the Administration of the Generality, not the Department of Health, but all the administrations to help us, to clarify, this resolution or this living with this epidemic. Therefore, for this reason, obviously, they demand the validation of this decree in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is the corresponding one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.149.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, we will move to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. This turn of speech is two minutes for the parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroup. In the first place, Mr Matías Alonso, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.150.0	Thank you, President, Counselor. Gentlemen, honourable Members. These days we are remembering different ephemerals that have marked significantly the institutional tasks of this Parliament. A little more than forty years ago, the Catalan Parliament reopened the doors of democracy. A little more than three years ago, in fact, only two more days ago, that the ruling separatism, the caquistocracy that dominates despite its social minority the institutions of the Generality, wanted to give a shot to the democracy that did not have the success they expected. In fact, the strength of Spanish democracy, which separatist parties and their institutional representatives do not know or do not want to see, dispeled their intention to form a right-wing republic at those times. Fortunately, we are in Spain, one of the most advanced and solid democracies in the world; and we are following what most Catalans want and what corresponds to us in accordance with the democratic order that marks the rules of the political and institutional game in Catalonia, an autonomous community in itself of one of the most decentralized states in Europe. And today we have an irrefutable exhibition, with this debate and vote to validate the decree of August 4th, law 30/2020, for which is established the specific sanctioning regime for the failure of preventive measures and sanitary containment to deal with the health crisis provoked by the Covid-19. Ep! , remember, we are immersed in a health crisis that is not remembered, a health crisis that is also causing a social and economic crisis from which we will remember many years. The decree that we are now debating and that we will be voting so late to validate it is a legal and legal intent of the Administration of the Generality to adequately address the possible and very probable – we have seen enough – incompliments on the part of some physical and legal persons of the essential preventive measures and health containment in the face of this difficult health crisis. The different administrations of the State, the Government of Spain, the autonomous governments and local corporations must lead the fight against the pandemic, and they must do so with the decision-making and promulgation of all the measures they need to effectively fight the pandemic. A handful of decisions and measures that have also – we know – arrived late. In some cases, very late and that, unfortunately, the lack of due diligence of public powers has led to the loss of many lives and the suffering of many families throughout Spain. In this Catalonia, the Administration of the Generality, this government that we pat, can not get pit ; years on the contrary, we have led for many weeks the ranks of the pain and the patience provoked by the Covid-19. Therefore, he arrived late because initially he was not given to the pandemic the importance he had, he did not know how to see the peril. But this Decree Law 30/2020 is a necessary rule to complement preventive and proactive actions against Covid-19, given the urgency to stop, as soon as possible, this disease and the spread of this evil virus. The Government of the Generality, after months of having started the pandemic and months after having fully recovered its capacity to manage the health crisis that we are patenting, has seen the need to go first. And that's what this decree does to you. Could've gotten there before, yeah. As it continues to apply after its provisional entry into force on August 7, also. And today, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will validate it, still waiting for it to be validated for this plenary. With a double satisfaction: of a band, because this decree establishes a sanctioning regime clear force and, to our mind, rather modulated, that places in the hands of the autonomous and local administrations the necessary tools to ensure as much as possible the effectiveness of the measures promulgated to deal with the pandemic. It's still better, but it's not a bad tool, even though it should have come before. But, on the other hand, because despite the usual word games of the Administration of the Generality, despite the attempts to conceal it, this Decree Law 30/2020, of August 4, is, as it cannot otherwise be, the fruit of a government agreement, of the Executive Council which still presides over Mr. Torra. And Mr. Torra himself promulgated it in the king's name, even though it's with a small mouth. I'm saying this because the administrative language that serves the Administration of the Government of Catalonia is, sometimes, something more than curious. The text begins with a reference to Article 67.6.a of the Statute, which provides that the decrees of the Law – as is the case – are promulgated, on behalf of the King, by the President or President of the Generality. A formula, that of this reference as passed to the statutory mandate for which it makes the promulgation of the decrees of the law, that seems to seek that the reference to the king did not end to see everything, because everything followed says: "According to the previous, I promulgate the following..., when I really mean or, even though I do not mean it, means that" in the name of the king, I promulgate the following decree of the law. This is the first of the tangible realities in this law decree, as in others. It is the result of a proposal by the Councillor of Salut, under the deliberation of the Government, which the President of the Generalitat promulgates on behalf of the king. It is to say, on behalf of the head of the State, of which the autonomous community, that Mr. Torra does not want to govern or administer, indissoluble part. Legally, the statement of reasons is full of references to organic laws, laws and royal decrees, all of which by virtue of which the Executive Council of the Government of the Generality has been able to agree that this decree is fruit. Because the Administration of the Generality, the Government of the Generality, forms part of the Administration of the State, and only according to the laws that conform to our democratic order can take decisions of the Government. Even there is an explicit reference to the Constitutional Court, another of the black beasts of separatism forming the Executive Council. And it does so so that it is right at the time to invoke the concurrence between the emergency situation caused by Covid-19 and the concrete measures taken. Today, in view of the ephemerals that I have mentioned in my intervention in this debate, I wanted to highlight these questions to remind the government and the groups that they support that we are in a social and democratic state of right. One of the world's most solid full democracies and which, just as it has been held to draft, promulgate and validate a law decree, it has to develop its daily tasks in the institutional sphere. Because only scrupulous respect for democratic game rules legitimizes political action and good governance. Today the groups of Juntes for Catalonia and Republic will validate this decree law, as we will also do from Citizens. It seems to us that by means of this decree you have established a systematically and concretely an ordered and grouped sanctioning regime. A rule which, in any case, is subject to the rules laid down for the administrative rule and to the jurisdiction of the corresponding courts on the assumption that any of the persons affected by an imposed penalty under this decree I consider it opportune to comply with the democratic order that we must respect and that Ciutadans, without any doubt, respects, while we ask you to respect me today, now and always. Because this is the only legitimate way to exercise the tasks of government and to represent, as we all do in this hemisphere, all the citizens of Catalonia. Without respecting the rules of the game that establishes the democratic order is lost all legitimacy, as the days of shame passed to September and also October 2017 and which today I wanted to remember. Counselor, stop playing politics-fiction, stop posing impossible as if they were playing; elaborate and present the assumptions that Catalonia needs to captivate the crisis we have on it. And, if you don't see it with color, if your priority is the open war in which both the government and the groups that support it have established themselves, maybe you don't leave a new government that has as its priority working for the city of Catalonia apart from party interests.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Assumpta Escarp, PSC Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.152.0	President, deputies, deputies, good morning. A few days ago Dr. Argimon, in one of the press appearances, said and defined the situation of the Covid-19 in the sense of saying: "We are at a time of dangerous instability. And he adds: "We control the pandemic with measure, solidarity and responsibility. The call to responsibility and, therefore, to solidarity has been a constant one on the part of all political and technical leaders. And I think it's a cry we all share here. Knowing that our actions have consequences for us and around us, we know that wearing masks, keeping distance and maintaining hygiene are important, as it is reducing or adapting our social interaction. You know, we demand it, and we see that it's full. So, we're being scaled up. At the expense of this responsibility and solidarity, measures must have been taken and measures must be of public, economic and governmental salvation. Some, purely administrative. In fact, the Process did not dictate various, it did not dictate many, resolutions, norms both of Health and of Interior, speaking of recommendations, of compulsoryness, of reduction of restoration activities and of oci. The compliment of these measures is a duet and, as a duet, may have the capacity and may involve coercive actions on the part of governments, and this is what attempts to regulate this decree. I would like to say, of course, when it comes to activities or activity or enforcement power on the part of the Government, which is the attitude of the citizenry. The citizenship of this country and in general has been mostly of great responsibility and solidarity. I think he's been there during the confinement and he's still feeling it. We have seen some relaxation, but in general we have seen it. And I think it's always worth saying. But it is a clear standard for you to fail to complete the indications and those that fail, to overcome responsibility and solidarity. I would like to say, in any case, that the name of regulations, changes, adaptations, extensions, phases, new regulations or new normalities or sometimes repeated makes it difficult. She gave the counselor that we need to learn to live with the virus; I absolutely agree, because this is not a time for us to bend the pandemic, but we need to learn, while we don't have a treatment – and when we have it too – and with the vaccine, that there is a new normality and that there is another way of doing things. But it is true that the proliferation of situations, of norms have brought many times high levels of confusion. And not only do citizens and citizens suffer, but some of those who have to apply the regulations, say together, Squad moss or local police, there are times when they go a little lost. During the state of alarm, 150,000 acts were raised, if I don't recall correctly, for possible violations, whether for the regulations of sanitation or Interior, processing that the Department of Interior will do according to a decree that we approved here itself I believe in June. Penalties that in their moment have been very questioned by constitutionalists, lawyers and others, talking about the ability to restrict rights. We will not enter this debate, but I would certainly like to know where these 150,000 offences are, which seems to cost their processing. Among other things, we can understand that it is complicated, but in any case we change from the Department of Interior to the Department of Health, we are ordering the offences, but here we have one hundred and fifty acts for offences during the state of alarm that we do not have solved. We share, as I said, the principles given by Dr. Argimon of measure, responsibility and solidarity, but I am sure that Dr. Argimon spoke more about public health measures and measures of health character, prevention and protection of health. And about these, even though they may not be object of this decree, I would like to say something, because I think we can't go through with it or say that many of the measures have arrived late and poorly. It was months to appoint a director of Public Health, we attended this week at the latest changes in the Department of Health; changes that the councilwoman will have her own reasons and we have also asked her to appear because she shares them, but what is obvious is that she will be part of the annals of the bad governments to change in the basic department at a time and in the middle of a pandemic like we are living. You did not put in place epidemiological surveillance measures or reinforce the services. We fell the bud of the Segria and overflowed with all our folds. The trackers claimed and quantified by a lot of experts have worked very hard to get there and there are still not all of them, and the primary attention, overwhelmed and stressed, has not seen its plan so far, which we do not have very concrete. And there's a chance, so to speak. Treuen Treuen plan of primary care when they know the discomfort that had generated the announcement to generate five satellite care centers. A faculty from the primary school told me the other day, which I found very uncertain: "At the primary school we work as never before, but as the ICUs are not tense, it seems that the system is not tense either. It's like we're going back to the purest hospital center. And all this when there is still a need to make enough coverage necessary for residences and schools. Miri, mass appeals to responsibility – I told you some other time – and mismanaged by the department. But in any case we are now... we will return to the sanctioning measures and to Decree 30/2020, taking into account that the sanction... or we hope that the sanction to a bad government will be found by us or will be found in the elections. So, let's talk about real sanctions now. Call attention to what I gave them before, right? , that before it is done for the Interior and now it is done for the Public Health Agency, when the ex-advisor justified that it is done for the Interior said that he doubted that Salut had the capacity to do it. Therefore, first doubt on the decree: can Salut process, and agency, all these sanctions? What can there be – and I hope that few, but still follow? Because the legal framework is the same: the 2009 Law of Public Greeting, the amendment of Article 55 of the Law, the Law of Civil Protection, have given us the necessary coverage to do so, also the Decree of New Governance, which allowed the two councillors. So it's obvious that there's got to be. To me, I don't know whether it was possible or not, I liked that I could also provide sanctions for fake news or irresponsible and negating positions and positions. I know it's very difficult, but I know it's a fight we've got open and we've got to keep it. The decree puts order – this is true – in the different legal texts and, above all, in some way, makes it very clear to the citizen who are punishable conduct, who processes sanctions and how it can be done. So, somehow, it doesn't just make life easier for the citizen and the citizen, it knows what his or her rights and penalties are, but also the administration's own activity. Therefore, in this sense, we believe that it is a good decree clarifying and detailing the regime of infringements, the failure of measures. And I'm also responding to a demand for assembly, especially for what I was doing to make the quarantine compulsory. And so, in this sense, I think he's fine. But there's always one, and that's what you know. There's a few things that grind a little. The gatherings may be fine, but it's true that they say there's been a lack of dialogue. That is to say, at a time when we call for cooperation and collaboration with the assemblies, we can answer some of the requests, but it's always kind of done, isn't it? , and that the assemblies do not find the constant dialog so that they can do it. Therefore, in this sense, we continue to express our doubt about..., or we continue to express the certainty that there is no dialogue with the assemblies. The second thing that we have also..., and yesterday we were working on this subject, is the special rule of Barcelona. Before the councillor makes reference. The legal services have been talking. In the end, it came to a certain agreement. But what is certain is that it is no longer a municipal charter, is that the 2009 law of the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia donated to Barcelona, through the Agency of Public Health, all the capacities. Therefore, from a legal point of view – and we will no longer enter a system of law – we can understand that if the assembly has one side it does not understand that it does not have everything, but the legal services have reached an agreement, let it be and let it be as it is. But, in any case, there are three reasons... – and I almost don't go into epidemiological surveillance services, because I think the modification is fine – but there are three reasons that I would like to point out and that it is somehow that I have tried and that would justify our abstention, even though we continue to think that it is a necessary decree and that it should be done: basically lack of dialogue with the assemblies; the more than reasonable doubts of processing capacity on the part of the Public Health Agency, and, I will be forgiven, I still do not understand why it has been processed internally and now Public Health, we are in the same legal regulation. These three positions, which I know are not clear in the decree, and their good intentions, therefore, will cause my group to abstain in its processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.154.0	Good morning again. This decree establishes the specific sanctioning regime for failure to comply with health prevention and containment measures to deal with the Covid crisis. We want to raise three questions to this draft, on this proposal, to this decree approved for the government and which we have to validate in Parliament today. First, today... this is an August 4 decree. We are talking about the specific sanctioning regime for failure to comply with prevention and containment measures to deal with the Covid. Measures which were claimed against the citizenry of many months of complicating. In fact, mostly the citizenry is complicating. But it's a punishing rule for which we don't comply from the beginning. We didn't make it clear, ordered and at least secure until August. All in all, we know that in this health crisis it had to be done absolutely differently, that this sanctioning regime was called for, and that, probably, therefore, it had to start from scratch. But he knew about the first day. And they've been improvised. It's one of them, surely, less important than what we own. But it's a demonstration of how improvisation was all, not just from an early age, but especially after the state-of-the-arms period when they ended up making a decree to the law that was hanging or making it hanging from the inside, and not now. Until August they did not approve of this one in which order was placed and a little more nailed and "secured as can be done this sanctioning rule. One element we wanted to question is the ability of Salut, and the Public Health Agency, to manage all these sanctioning shippers. Trained in personnel and resources. The doubt was expressed by his own government. The former Interior Advisor, Mr. Buch, in the debate of Decree Law 22, who attributed the entire direction of this sanctioning ability to the Interior to June or early July, said: "The Department of Salvation is now immersed in the struggle for the Covid-19. And that's why we made the decision to centralize all sanctions, as long as they come for the Public Salvation Law as they come for the Citizens' Security Law, in the Interior Department. I, today, am convinced that the Department of Health continues to be very focused and emboldened in the management of the pandemic, which we have now and which it will probably come from. And that the Public Health Agency, which is also very focused on the management of epidemiology control, has very few economic and people resources to do all this work that is being done. So, let's repeat the doubt: it has the ability to manage all these sanctioning shippers now, when we continue to manage Covid from the Health Department, from the Public Health Agency, and it will continue, and it was not held in June or July, according to the ex-Interior Advisor? Also in that July debate of the Decree Ill 22 the former advisor Buch explained that the Department of Interior was having..., the same Department of Interior was having difficulties to manage the sanctions of the months of confinement and the state of alarm; that in a normal year, I said, the Interior manages approximately thirty_ thousand sanctions and that there was not at that time 140,000, only in three_months of state of alarm. As a matter of fact, not all of these shippers are resolved at this time, and it continues to be uncertain whether they will be resolved. And, obviously, this increases a certain feeling of impunity in the city, which I think is not appropriate for measures such as we are talking about that need to be completed. Evidently, also, of the compromise to bring together 85_percent of the recaptancy that presupposes in those sanctions, nothings, have not yet seen a euro, even though the majority of those sanctions were imposed on them by the municipal services, and, therefore, the work was done. Next, Salut wasn't able to do it, because he had to focus on other things; he did Interior, and Interior said he wasn't able to do it either. Two more months have passed, three more months, it hasn't happened, it's still haunted with sanctions respecting the months of the state of alarm, and now they're telling us that everything's going on to Greeting. Well, I think, Counselor, that we need to be very clear about this, in order to have the certainty that this will work, this sanctioning rule is absolutely sound. And a third element, a third but we want to comment on, is precisely the role of the municipalities in this sanctioning regime. We welcome the fact that at least this time, unlike the 22nd Decree, we recognize and allow early meetings to manage, sanction and collect at least the penalties that have been passed, and that recognition of the specifics that they have in their own laws and in their own powers the Aran or the city of Barcelona has already taken place. But one more time, it was done without joint work. In fact, for what we know – and now there is also reference, from the spokesman of the Socialist Group – there have been discrepancies up to the last few hours with the legal services of the Barcelona City Council respecting the competitions and the impact in municipal charter, etc. And as for the rest of the Catalan constitutions, in July, in meetings of President Torra with mayors and mayors, it was explained to him, the decree, but at the moment there was a joint work of this decree, previously, with those administrations that are also competent for this subject and that could also be managing these sanctions. So, one more time, the government co-defends co-decision with information. No, it's not co-killing just by giving information about something already done. Finally, as this decree already applies to August's bugs, we want to refer to how its application is already working. And what our people are telling us from now on is that there are still unsolved doubts about procedural security, in relation to the cessation of competition and the instruction of the consignors, and about the participation of the Generality in the processes of initiation of consignors that operate the consignors. Or, it was supposed that this decree would clarify, give security to what existed and by order to be able to make these sanctions, but there are still doubts about the practicality. All in all, it is a decree that, at first glance, it can obviously seem reasonable, that it is obviously necessary, but that above in time – it did not arrive until August – without enough joint work or dialogue with local administrations, that they also have competitions, and that still generates certain doubts about us respect some procedural elements of these sanctions. For all intents and purposes, we shall abstain from voting on this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.156.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'll abstain from this decree, first of all because we understand that it's been a long time since we found ourselves in this state of health emergency and that we might have worked, so this decree in another way, with a much broader dialect, and not with the figure of the decree, that we believe that the government has already done a pretty good job of the figure of the decrees, that should be served only in exceptional times, when the dispositions are extremely urgent, and we understand that this is something that should have been done for some time now. Now, we're also abstaining for the content. Why for the content? So, for example, why does this decree speak very generically, very subjectively, of certain ducts, right? "Any other failure to comply with measures, orders, resolutions and acts adopted by the competent authorities in the face of the health crisis. That's it, that's it. It creates a feeling of legal defence. One thing is to say 'who does not wear a mask, a hundred_euros,'who wears it badly, too, well, but another thing is to say that all those orders, resolutions, measures, acts adopted for the government can consist of a lack of light, hard or very hard. And how does it distinguish between light, hard and very hard? So he says: "When there is a risk or damage to the salvation of the people, when the failure assumes a risk of contagion, if it is leu, less than fifteen people; if it is difficult, from fifteen to one hundred and fifty. A risk of contagion. And how will you measure that? Because it doesn't explain it here. The other one is, he says: « Share begudes on the public street, of five hundred_euros... ; alcoholic begudes on the public street, of five hundred_euros to three thousand_euros. But sharing a Coke stuck on a bench, that doesn't hook up the Covid. I mean, it's kind of hard. And we're not in favor, are we? That is to say, we also believe that there must be measures and that certain behaviours should be sanctioned, but to give this margin of discretion, therefore, then leads us to situations sometimes of abuse of power. And we've been seeing it until today, with the imposition of sanctions. For example, say: "Gradification of sanctions. Penalties, for example, the heaviest, can go from sixty thousand to 600,000 euros. He said, "Well, with three I who are 600,000 and in the sixty-thousand? O: "How do I grade these sanctions? Says: "So according to the negligence and intentionality of the subject. Well, so, I don't know, intentionality, as measured. « The gravity of the health and social alteration produced– « the gravity of the health and social alteration produced. A social disturbance, what can it be? Who will sort out what is a social disorder and what is not a social disorder? Is a demonstration going to be a social disturbance? Shall we also see our right to protest? He said: "The failure of the requirements or the warnings given by any means. I repeated: "Previous warnings by any means already. That you have a list of warnings before the city by any means already? It's to say, if someone warned me of something, like the citizen, for..., tells me: "Listen, you should put the mask down. Is that pointed at a register? Because here you say that the failure of the requirements or warnings previous by any means already. And don't say, then, that they're based on a complaint or a police record... no, don't say that, don't explain it. The duration of the risks. Compared to what? What is a duration that can make a penalty of 600,000 and not sixty thousand? He said: "The existence of repetition or recidivism. But it also explains what it means to repeat or recidivism. You mean, there's got to be a firm sanctioning dispatcher with a sanction proposal? Where can I be repeated that my attention has been called? I mean, I think for legal certainty there should be things that should be clearer. And there's a mistake at the k-point of Article 6, because you say that it was a risk or damage when you had to say a risk or damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.158.0	Thank you, President. Well, it is clear that there is a need to adopt a concrete rule, which is determined, that it is clarifying and that I allow in the end, therefore, to impose responsibility, through punishment, unfortunately, on those who with their conduits still pose at risk the already fragile health and epidemic situation. But, despite this, we consider that it is essential, therefore, to reschedule and make some observations in accordance with the decree. First. What has happened to the sanctions that have been processed so far? Because we have absolutely no news of all the sanctions that were announced by the Interior Council that had been processed from the alarm decree. And for the demonstrations of the same members of the government, including Mr. Torra, and even more so, since the Barcelona City Council, Mrs. Colau, it seems that they have been left behind in a calaix. So let's figure out what a decree is for if you end up transporting the agents of the authority who are to impose these sanctions by raising the number of acts and complaints by default, if you send them the message that they will be left on paper. This is the first question we raise. The second is who's the reason why it's changed, let's say, the processing from the Inside to Health and that's who you're sending these sanctions. We don't understand why this change in criteria. We think he's very unscathed. But it is possible that you too still maintain totally different and contradictory criteria between the councils, as the members of the Government of the Republican Left have already reflected towards the Junts for Catalonia when the last decree was approved in July, which clarified the competitions between the different police units at the time of being able to apply these sanctions. Do you still have these interpretive conflicts and need to apply sanctions for failure to do so? Because, if that's the case, the consulting change won't do the thing. If you are not convinced that you need to impose sanctions in a crisis situation such as this for incompliment, we are at exactly the same point as before this decree is presented. We believe that the fact that clarifications are introduced respects the step, type of sanction... in other words, that gives a certain clarity, but we still have the same impression of certain chaos of the same chaos that also permeated the performance of the Government of the Generality respect this issue before the alarm was raised on June 21. And we can understand that in its moment the command only difficulties determine clarifications and that there are doubts, but now, after the time passed, we do not explain how this chaos, this lack of coordination, follows – I think it has already been said since this Faristol – between the local world, which also needs to participate in this situation. A third reflection that we will launch is: escort, this decree and its sanctions apply in holiday days? The question is not..., it is ironic, because it gives that Catalans cannot gather more than two people, nor that we remain familiar, during all this time, for the emergence and the situation so fragile health care, and, in change, they have not denied the demonstrations called for by the ANC, escapes throughout Catalonia and that they will summon more than 45,000 people..., we will see if in the case of failure on the 11th will arise acts. Because, if you don't pass this... – truth, you wouldn't alienate us – but if you don't pass this and you don't just disauthorize these manifestations, which the scientific and health community has already described as fears, you, in order not to apply a sanctioning regime, not only caurien in arbitrariness, but also illegality. I hope it's not like that. As we are aware of the need for approval of this decree and the setting of a clarifying regime, precisely in order not to run into arbitrariness or defences and to protect that and the most important good that is public salvation, we will not stifle its approval. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But let me tell you one thing: to apply a decree, a disposition, you have to respect not only the law, but also believe in the content...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.159.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.160.0	...that this tea.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.161.0	Thank you. It's coming back now... [[Pause.]] Thank you. It's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and Mrs. Montserrat Fornells has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.162.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. In the first place, I would like to condemn and regret what happened today to the camp of Mória, in Greece. It is regrettable and shameful that these things happen today in Europe, and the inaction of this. Send from here all the support, all the strength, all the heating and all the souls to all the refugees and refugees. Already entering into the content of which we are discussing, we are ahead of the validation of Decree Law 30/2020, of August 4, for which the specific sanctioning regime is established for the failure of preventive measures and sanitary containment to deal with the health crisis provoked by Covid-19. The object of this decree is to protect the rights of life, to physical integrity and to the salvation of people, and, to achieve it, we must provide the public administrations with the necessary tools. The health crisis generated by the pandemic makes our country suffer a situation that is complex and exceptional, and, therefore, as everyone, all citizens, take the necessary precautions and preventive measures to deal with it. The net hands, distance and mask are the most effective and necessary measures to fight it. Only if we all act responsibly will we be able to get out of it and deal with this difficult situation that has touched our lives. As the Counsellor said, it is the cooperation and cooperation of all citizens and all institutions to address it and always putting people's life and salvation at the centre. However, administrations need tools to protect the rights of citizens. For the benefit of the community, so that the public authorities can sanction if they violate the measures that have been donated by health experts to preserve public health and to undermine the health effects of the pandemic that we are still patenting. The sanctioning regime now existed and was dispersed in different legal texts and made it difficult to know the city of those reprehensible conducts or omissions. Moreover, it also represented a complexity for the Administration. For this reason, this decree seeks to guarantee legal certainty and to classify and detail the regime of infringements and sanctions for failure to comply with the prevention measures provoked by Covid-19. This decree seeks to bring order and clarity to the applicable legislation in an exceptional situation. Citizenship must be able to know which legislation is applying to it in the sanctions that may be imposed on it. By subscribing to this law, you classify offences into law, heavy or very heavy, and detail the penalties relevant to each failure situation. It is considered to be difficult infringements, for example, both the failure of the safety limits established in closed spaces or in the free area as opening times and the closure of the different types of establishment and activity. Penalties and fines for heavy offences run from EUR 3.001 up to EUR 6000. They are very difficult offences, for example, the celebration of acts or activities that have been expressly prohibited or suspected by the authorities for the risk they pose for the salvation of the population in relation to the Covid-19. In this sense, the fines for very heavy offences will be between 60,001_euro and 600,000_euro. And, lastly, it is considered to be infringements, with imports of sanctions up to a maximum of three thousand euros, for example, the failure to comply with the obligation to use the mask or its improper use. In this case, the penalty corresponds to one hundred euros. Thus, the applicable penalty will be determined according to the criteria relating to intentionality, the severity of the affectation, the repetition of the offence and also in the time that the situation that has put at risk the safety and security of the citizenry has remained. It will be the meetings of Catalonia and the Administration of the Generality, in the field of its competences, those who will exercise the functions of vigilance, inspection and control of what this decree provides for; the competence of the penalties for the meetings and the difficult or very difficult for the Administration of the Generality, with the Assembly of Barcelona with the municipal letter and with the General Council of Aran with the differences specified concretely for its special jurisdictional regime. Finally, the Decree also amends Decree 203/2015, for which the Epidemiological Surveillance System is created, and the notification systems for compulsory declaration and epidemic outbreaks are regulated. This modification will mean that the functions of the Emergency Surveillance Service of Catalonia can be developed for multidisciplinary health personnel; a modification of everything necessary to be able to follow the evolution of the pandemic and buds in the territory. On behalf of our group, on behalf of the Republic Group, we will support the validation of the processing of this decree. And finally, to make it clear that we are living in an exceptional situation where everyone has to pose on their part. Only from the collective consciousness will we overcome folds and folds of this situation. If all of us complement the measures, everyone will benefit and we can fight this pandemic by avoiding more restrictions in the future. If they are not complete, it will harm the entire society by putting our public health system at risk and also putting the most vulnerable people at risk, and it can even come back in the struggle against the Covid. I have no doubt that we will make it possible and get out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.164.0	Good morning, everybody. President, councillor, face-to-face MPs and also telematics... Under normal conditions this intervention on a decree establishing a sanctioning regime to reflect on the need to establish sanctions and the social model we have or would want to have, and it would certainly start this reflection by saying the words that writer Herman Melville put in the mouth of one of the most paradigmatic characters in the history of literature, Bartleby, writing these famous words: "I would rather not do it. Indeed, I would rather not have to establish any sanctioning rules, or simply not have to establish sanctioning rules for questions that should not have been so simple with the common sense, the sense of responsibility and the sense of community because people are complex and respected. But we are not in normal conditions; quite the contrary, for various reasons we have been living in a situation of political exceptionality for the persecution of independence from the State, with harmful consequences for the democratic balance of institutions like this, and for the rights of people. And this situation has been overcome by the exceptionality that we are all living with the coronavirus pandemic. We like each other more or less, it has been necessary to apply measures that affect the normal development of our lives, and the government needs, it has had to apply them, with whom it says, one day for another. Many are perfectable, and as experience has shown, they have been adapting and modifying. But it is not time for more profound sociological trials because the measures must be practically effective at the moment and must achieve the effect that the control of the pandemic requires, and if it must be accompanied by public health measures with a specific sanctioning regime, then it must be done. For various reasons – and the counselor has already assigned them in her intervention. First, because a good part of society demands clarity in the measures they take, in which they must be done and in which they cannot be done, and what they may not be completed. And another important reason that justifies this decree of measures is the legal validity. We came to propose the measures on the basis of a resolution signed for the Health and the Interior Council, which several experts assigned – and experience – as an administrative act that did not allow sanctions to be imposed. And from here they produced resolutions of judgments that contradict the measures applied for the government, even though these are based on the recommendations of experts in epidemiology. It was necessary to give legal validity to the measures and the application of sanctions if they were incomplete, and the instrument was to be a decree or a government order. This is why today we are debating the Decree of the special sanctioning regime for the failure of preventive measures and sanitary containment to deal with the health crisis caused by Covid. This decree must respond to the need for the principle of clarity of standards, to provide them with legal certainty and to be more a deterrent than a recaptator. The decree that is presented today is generally complete with these purposes. The report of the Department of Economics, for example, says that the measures provided for in this decree comply with the powers of control, inspection and sanction of competence of the Administration of the Generality, without having any economic impact in presupposed terms. Another important issue in order to validate this decree is the legal foundations that support it, and in the decree it is state and Catalan law, but, as I have already pointed out a moment ago, the most important thing is that this sanctioning rule is a decree. And likewise, as we will not now be debating the model of society that we would like to see, because we do not have sanctioning rules, we will not be debating today either on the guarantee of the rights of citizens subject to a sanctioning procedure. But it doesn't mean that we don't have any questions about which room this is not going to be hanging and that I debate them when the time comes, surely, after the phase of full new control of the pandemic. And in this sense, it would also be good to ask the Government that restrictive measures are flexible in so far as the situation of contagious diseases improves – which is already taking place – not only because of a question of individual rights but also because unnecessary restrictions put the viability of certain economic sectors at risk. Say that, let's go back to the decree. Another element that justifies this is the dispersion of different sanctioning regimes in various legal texts. This legal dispersion makes it difficult for the Administration to do its job, but it also makes it difficult to know the citizens of the measures that apply and the consequences of their failure. So, for legal certainty, this decree clarifies and details the regime of infringements and sanctions and establishes who are the sanctioning agencies. And in order to promote this clarity, it is also foreseen that this specific sanctioning regime should prevail over existing ones, at least in general, without prejudice to applying these other rules in more specific and appropriate cases. And also, even though it is withdrawn in a transitional arrangement, the decree makes it clear that this sanctioning regime is not retroactively applicable, but rather constitutes a more favourable rule for cases foreseen for the entry into force of the decree. And we still find the list of infractions, which I will not repeat – they have already been explained – and also the sanctioning competence, which has also been explained by the councillor, which remains established in the Government of the Generality, in the Health Council, in the Secretary of Public Health and the territorial sub-directions of Public Health, and with additional specific dispositions because it is possible to delegate in the joints also the sanctioning competence, in the Public Health Agency of Barcelona, which, for which you have some interventions, has reached the agreement that this already represents that it is the joint of Barcelona that can intervene, who can apply this rule, and also to the General Council of Aran in its territory. In short, we have a decree that we expect to serve for the main purpose, which is nothing but help in the control of the epidemic. And surely the best contribution is that it has no effect whatsoever on the situation in which it is to be applied, or that there is no more than it has already been, and also that the rights that can now be limited are recuperated intact when everything has passed, that we hope it will be soon, because this would also be a sign, it will also be a sign that we need to learn from this crisis, that we are not learning positive things, and that a society should become a better one than we were before the pandemic, for which it does the common sense, the sense of responsibility and the sense of community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over. I must warn you that the vote on the validation of this Decree 30/2020 will be taken this late together with the rest of the points that we will have to vote on, which will be after the end of the eighth point of the agenda. Let's get up..., suspend the session, better said, forgive, up to two-quarters of the late. Thank you. [[The session is suspected of mid- and 11-minutes and consists of two-quarters of four of the late and five-minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the Second Vice-President, the First Secretary and the Third and Fourth Secretaries. Attend the Bureau the Secretary General, the Iletrat Major and the Iletrada Clara Marsan Raventos.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.246.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the President's speech have not been recorded.]] [[Proposition of the law of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in housing leases (continuation)]] [[202-00080/12]] In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for submitting submissions is now for the final debate. In the first place, the parliamentary groups which have submitted papers will intervene, whether they are full papers or papers submitted during the single reading or even subsequent papers to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees; later, the groups which have not submitted papers will intervene. The turn of interventions will be two minutes for the parliamentary group and sub-groups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Naomi of the Street. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.166.0	Good afternoon, everyone. We take up again the debate on a proposal for a recycled law that has already been presented by Councillor Calvet in the last legislature and that the Board of Guarantees has concluded that it includes content that this Parliament does not have the power to legislate. So, in the event that that original content is approved, we all know that this law has no more recourse than its appeal to the Constitutional Court, which will say exactly the same as the Guarantee Board. From Citizens we have already warned, and the Council of Guarantees has given us the reason: it rejects the majority of this law unanimously, a law that is a pre-election lie of this populist government, together with Podemos, to wash its face, to cover up the repeated violation of the law in force in Catalonia, which says that 15_per_cent of housing must be of social use. In fact, yesterday the first vice-president of this chamber recognized him in two tweets, that we must vote in favour of this law in order for there to be trouble in the Constitutional Court. And it is that, white and in bottle, the house gives them equal, and this law is only a pretext to generate confrontation, which is, therefore, the usual. And what little respect is given to this institution by the groups that support the government. With that sort of thing I believe that this Parliament lacks credibility and prestige, and it is a shame to see how full after full..., therefore, the little respect they have for the self-government of Catalonia. We believe that what the Government has to do is manage the pandemic and ensure the right to housing and stop deceiving or distracting attention from competing conflicts. Let us be clear: the groups that support the Government know perfectly well that the housing problem we have would be solved if it were reversed, if the Generalitat created enough social rental housing, and we know perfectly well that they present this to cover their real lack of willingness to invest in social policies, with help, how not? So, of the necessary accomplices of Podemos or commons, and what would this government be without the commons? Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya spend the day trying to legislate for what they don't have skills and stop doing their job with the skills they do. And if we are as we are, it is because the various governments that have been paraded by the Generalitat have not opted for housing policies, violating the Catalan law of the right to housing. Why are they wasting their time in this way and thus wasting it on the citizenry? Do they not find other formulas whose solutions fall within their competence? Because there are, and many. What happens is that they don't want to use them, because it costs them money. And let's go in parts. This law has two problems: the first is that it invades the competences of the State and the second is that it therefore proposes a measure that has already proved to be of dubious effectiveness where it has been implemented. And it is ironic that common, Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya present this proposal of law, the three architects, the three parliamentary groups creators of budgets in which a misery is allocated to public housing of social rent. And it is also true, we recognize, that this problem does not have only these last budgets, but comes from afar. In Catalonia, the various governments we have had in recent decades without investing in housing. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the lowest percentage of its budget investing in housing, half the average of the other autonomous communities. And, while in the Community of Madrid, 1.5_percent of the budget is allocated to housing policies, here it is allocated just over 0.6_per_cent, and I remind you that the Spanish average is 1.1_per_cent. And they present this law trying to get us to swallow that they are very social, but in reality what they intend to do is to discharge in private a responsibility that is of the Administration, trying to confuse the citizenry and hide that they are not allocating enough budget to social housing; I will repeat it whenever it is necessary. So less postures and more commitment when it comes to making budgets to equate us with housing, not with the European Union anymore, but at least with Spain. In Catalonia there is a law, which is the 18/2007, on the right to housing, thirteen years ago since it was approved, and it established that in twenty years it had to reach the goal that 15_per_cent of the housing park had to be of social use. And what have they done? What are we wearing? More than half the time. And what have they done? Nothing, we didn't even get to 2-per-cent. Because yours is pure theater, I would only chatter, then, to confront. But real politics, none, which is putting public money. Take money out of TV3 and put it in the house. But no, of course, because you have other priorities that... that you have, and that while trying to distract the staff with the "Ah! , the evil owners... well, don't forget that most, a great majority of those owners are private. And you're like the witch train, because all you do is scare. Because how are they going to attract investment if what they do with these kinds of policies is to drive anyone who has the slightest idea to invest in Catalonia? Because the legal certainty they have with this, then, tends to be zero. And if the price of housing is high build public social rental housing, you put the money. Moreover, there are several studies that say that price regulation – in Berlin, for example – has not served anything. This type of regulation leads to waiting lists for access to a home, leads to the creation of a black housing market. This is what these kinds of policies generate, and that then, for example, people don't invest hard in those homes and fall to pieces. So, you don't have to invent anything, if it's all made up. The problem is that it is expensive and the Government is not prepared to allocate sufficient budget to social rental housing. Nor are they willing to look for public-private partnerships so that things are handled well, that they become profitable and that many things can be done. Because making only thirty homes is useless, has no effect on the market; an impact is needed that is noted in the offer. And doing good, distributing them throughout the territory, so that no ghettos or traps of poverty are generated. And we recognize that it is not easy, but it is that if they never get serious, if what they do is throw balloons out, centrifugal towards the private, that they do not cease to be citizens, then this problem will never be solved. And it is also that since 2015 they have been carrying this baton, because for you it is very greedy, because to confront society with the perverse discourse that "the fault is of Madrid, which has laid down the law for me, and to point out to the rich, which is something that it is like that reaches the viscera of the citizenry, "the great forbearer, which is already like a mythological animal, like the drac of Sant Jordi. And they forget two things. One, that most of the rental market is not in the hands of the big forks, but of private citizens who listen to you and hallucinate with the cynicism of your speech, because it is that the citizenry does not forget that the one who has to solve these issues is the Public Administration, that is, the Generalitat, who has the skills and the money. And the second forget you have is that it is you who have to devote money to housing policies, not take money away from the citizens or tell them... What happens is that you prefer to allocate resources to TV3, for example, to embassies, to the one hundred and a thousand beggars known to all, because that is your priority. So from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, the first thing we have done is to eliminate with our amendments all that has been said by the Guarantee Council, which is unconstitutional, because it is good that they try to seek confrontation with the State, wasting time trying to legislate things for which they have no competence, and things for which they do have competence take them away, as they did with the day-care centres, encasing themselves with the diputations, or with the dining grants this August, which have encased them to the municipalities. And it's that they're worth studying, that they spend more energy looking for a way not to stick to the water than to give it. So, if you have skills, exercise them, put money and fill Catalonia with social housing. What they cannot claim is to have behaved like irresponsible people for decades in housing, speculating with public buying housing, and now they intend to make the duck pay to a citizen who has a flat and rents it. So the second thing we have done is to introduce an amendment to comply with the Housing Act and to draw up an autonomous fund for the creation of a public park of social rental housing, providing it with 50_percent of the public revenues derived from the tax of onerous property transmissions and documented legal acts, with 100_percent of the public revenues derived from the intested inheritances received by the Generalitat or the properties that are acquired in this way and that are suitable for the function of housing. And also, as we have been claiming from Citizens for many years, since this fund is also endowed with 30_per_cent of the public revenues obtained from the tourist rate. Because much talk with gentrification, but when it comes to giving the solution, when realistic proposals are put on the table, as we did from Citizens, for what you have done is give them your back. We have tabled other amendments in which we propose incentives, which do not impose, for income containment, introducing mechanisms that are effective in price containment, monitoring the market and housing conditions, so that those sellers or tenants who sell or rent below these recommended maximum prices have some kind of tax benefit. And when the agreed price is lower than the reference price we introduce a reduction in the tax on the autonomous portion of the IRPF and incentives to municipalities that improve the tax on real estate, the IBI, if these objectives are met. And also incentives for the construction of new social rental housing. Our amendments show that, if the Generalitat had the will to do so, it has at its disposal the competence and the appropriate mechanisms to ensure the right to housing, and if it does not, it is because it wants to continue living from victimism, confrontation with the State, because its priority is to continue feeding its children, and in no case to ensure equal opportunities or access to housing. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra spoke. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.168.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we are going back to debate and vote, finally, on the Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures in the Content of Returns in Housing Leases, a proposal of law that the proposing groups decided that it is one-on-one reading arrangements with the same content, practically, that the decree law that at the time promoted the Department of Justice and that we already knew that it was unconstitutional and unstatutory, because that was what the Council of State Guarantees had said, without seeking the maximum possible consent and with a show, if I am allowed, pathetically, to confront between the two groups that give recollection to the Government. That's, like, an authentic demeanor. This proposal of law reproduces almost every bit of the law decree that has been presented from the Department of Justice at the gates of the municipal elections. At that time, Catalonia in Comú was slipping the clothes and said that after only there were partisan intentions of the Republican Left, which had the eyes laid in the Assembly of Barcelona. Now, however, with almost the same text and at the gates of other elections, the autonomous Catalonia in Comú is proposing text, and now there is no party or electoral intention; now there is only the possibility of achieving a viable objective, such as that of yield containment. I can't tell them - I can't tell them, but I can't tell them. And it doesn't fit because you know as well as we do that this law won't be used, you know as well as we do that most of the articles in this proposal are unconstitutional and unstatus. And not because we say it: because it is said by a Catalan organization, the Board of State Guarantees. You may say that the competitive argument does not want to or value it, that it is intended to focus on the object of the yield content. But they will agree with us that, to the extent that it is very commendable to have the objective, the way to get there is essential. If they're wrong about the path, they don't get to the goal. Mirin, habitat is a very sensitive environment. Sending messages that can generate expectations to some and can create uncertainties to others can end up producing the opposite effect that you want to look for, and that, with the situation we have, we can't afford. But in case we don't have a moment of jurisdictional debate, there's another factor that makes us object to this bill, and that's the way it was meant to be. We gave them to July, when we discussed the one reading, that a subject such as this, of this fall, of this importance, could not be dealt with by one reading, without the necessary debate between all the groups, without the appearance of experts, without being able to study whether Catalonia can apply the solutions that have applied to other countries, or the media, the instruments that have applied to other countries. Because our real estate system, our property system, the structure of the property, is different from Catalonia respects other countries. We have examples of what is being done in Berlin, but also what is being done in Portugal. What would be the model that would best adapt to our reality, if there is any? Maybe they're not valid, and we need to find one of their own. But we haven't been able to assess that. The proposing groups, which obviously had and had sufficient votes, took the opportunity to do this work further. And this is not to the detriment of the groups that have not presented the initiative or that do not collect it: it is to the detriment of the objective that they say they want to achieve. And, look, if before we retract the attitude of the commons, we now want to refer to the Government, because in our hearing it is especially irresponsible the position of the two groups that support the Government. They already get used to the open war between the two partners, with the eyes most attached to the elections that are not in the government and the management of the complex reality that we currently have. But the situation we're living with with this law proposal is almost surreal. The two groups were signatories to the bill's proposal, but at the same time, Juntes presented some papers to his own text, which he then had to withdraw, some papers that wanted to dilute the meaning of the proposal: they took the assumptions to declare a market area, established the obligation that this statement could be revised, made the Generality disappear as the competent administration to make the statement of market area tense – which we are already accustomed to, that the Generality disappears – and determined assumptions in which this content of returns did not apply. These items were not minor and make us think that you don't really agree, you don't agree with this text. But then why did they sign up? So, of course, because we have a few elections on the side, and now it's time to try to get along with the collectivities that have a lot of mobilising capacity, even though it's at the expense of quickly and poorly regulating, they have to rectify, then they have to rectify again... Because it's only half an hour ago we learned – and we had to know for the press and the social media – that they had reached an agreement and that, therefore, there was a..., well, there was a withdrawal of some items, there was a modification of other items that had been submitted together. Is it true that a subject like this, of this transcendence, can have this treatment? Do the other groups of this chamber really deserve this treatment? Well, look, we don't think so. Really, a pitiful spectacle. We are convinced that this is a new opportunity for you to tackle the confrontation, and we have clearly seen it in your social networks, the confrontation with the Government of Spain, trying to present it as the box of social laws that the only one who pretends to be helping people who can't or who have difficulty accessing a logger, to pay for the logger. It is just as the Council of State Guarantees has unanimously told you that many of these articles – divided, if I am not wrong – are unconstitutional and unstatistical, to you this is the same, because your goal is not to solve the problems of paying for the logue of so many families, no: your goal is to confront and fuel the conflict, with the hope that these women's election returns. And we hardly see how the commons follow the thread and point to the game. Housing in Catalonia needs strong and useful policies, and consent and legal certainty, it certainly needs, and no confrontation and announcements that they have more to see with electoral calculations than with the real will to find solutions. And they also need coordination of the different administrations with the assemblies – that we see as this government leaves them abandoned too often, and also in the housing –, and also with the Government of Spain, obviously, that is working to improve the housing situation. And we remember that he approved the modification of the LAU which extended the terms of the contracts in accordance with the law of the PP; therefore, he gave the loguers an off-set. It approved the index of reference for the whole State, as it did not provide for a regulation that gives the possibility – the possibility, now, yes – that local authorities and communities can regulate the yields of lloger, but also mobilize only to increase the offer of accesible housing or to develop a new state plan of housing specifically focused on access to the "living and promoting lloger". Therefore, if in an attempt to use the moderation of the yields of the logger to mitigate the confrontation without the willingness to seek useful solutions to real problems, they would have found a way to generate coordination between the administrations that have competence in habitating and get to work in this sense. If in order to seek the priority confrontation in the housing policies, especially in the presupposition, the market of the housing and the public housing park are in better condition and this is also noted in the renderings of llogar. We have been able to witness a truly regrettable spectacle, which knows us very hard, the truth, which we have played with such an important theme as are the renderings of logging and the need of so many families simply to engage in this confrontation, simply to seek an electoral performance. Of the presentations that have been made, let's talk about the Ciutadans. We refuse to talk about the Junts for Catalonia, because, of course, we have known them, so, a minute before going out to this Faristol. In fact, the porter of Ciutadans could not speak, because he did not have them; they were handed over to us a minute earlier. So they don't do things, and so we'll just talk about Ciutadans' papers. We will vote in favour of the deletion, because, obviously, we do not agree with this text, but in what we propose, as the first or second point, or from the number 19 to the 20, we will abstain, because we believe that there are some ideas that make proposals that could be interesting, that could be part of policies to increase the affordable housing and improve the offer and the price, but we would obviously have wanted to have the time and debate that we could not have with this processing in order to be able to find the agreement to formulate them in a possible other way. We will vote against the 21st, which speaks of the creation of a foundation for housing, because for us the assumptions must be the tool to put the necessary resources for housing policies, and what is lacking, in any case, is political will, and did not create special instruments. As I said, regret the way in which this bill was managed and what it was intended to do in this Parliament; regret the spectacle that has been given, the degradation, once again, of the institutions, and encourage them all to truly seek consensus to give real solutions to people's real problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.170.0	Thank you very much, President. First consideration: a right such as that of housing, which no one discusses and which is also enshrined in the Constitution, must never – never – be applied at the expense of another fundamental right, such as that of private property. This is very important, because without private property there is no democracy – without private property there is no democracy – because if you don't even have the guarantee about your private property, whether these are many or few, if you don't have legal certainty about them, what can you aspire to? What other rights can protect you? None. In fact, and to go a step further, to enshrine the liquidation of the right to private property is to enshrine theft, not as a crime, but as a right – theft not as a crime, but as a right – which is unfortunately what is happening on many occasions: the owner is not protected, the owner is protected. And there is no need to be an expert in constitutional law; anyone, intuitively, can come to that conclusion, except in this Parliament, apparently, a substantial part of the Members of this House, who are unable to reach that essential conclusion. In fact, the Board of Statutory Guarantees – then I will refer in a slightly more concrete way... – no longer intuitively, but after a detailed analysis, comes to that conclusion. And it is that the vast majority of the articles of what we are discussing today are unconstitutional, they seriously attack... But not because the Constitutional Court, which has not yet ruled, says it: it is that a Catalan institution as is the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. You yourselves, from the moment you know, once again degrade the Catalan institutions. No one compels you, no one imposes it from Madrid and these entelequias that you say. It is that you yourself have been considering for eight years that the Council of Guarantees Statutàries itself does not serve at all, that it is a kind of hindrance in your authoritarian project, in which rules and laws do not serve at all, because it is only about imposing their will, that of a part of the Catalan population, over and over again, without any kind of democratic control. You are planning today, in fact, the second part of a rather particular housing policy, which consists, as I said at the beginning of my speech, in considering that, finally, the way to help the most disadvantaged families have the right, access to housing is to make life impossible for the owners. It has historically been exactly the opposite: only when we have been able to integrate the interests of each other, has there been an active rental market, of guarantees and which has been able to cover large sections of the population. This isn't happening right now, it's the opposite. You combine two lethal elements. One is the promotion, I will not say explicitly, but yes the broad sleeve towards illegal occupation, with, by the way, another law that we have taken to the Constitutional Court. The combination of the promotion of occupation with the limitation of the rent price is lethal for one reason: because it makes life impossible for the owner, and the owner, under those conditions, and in an absolutely legitimate way, has only one option, which is or remains the floor and does not put it to rent or sale, because it is his, hope that they do not occupy it, because he has a freed economic situation, or if he needs economic resources, liquidity, puts it for sale. He never puts it, in life, rent, because a double threat is hanging over him. The first is a price far below the market, which moreover the public administration itself – it has been said before and it is true – does not respect. The public administration sometimes behaves like a real estate company, with prices far above the market, and this is happening in many municipalities. And on the other hand, he has the threat of occupation. If you combine the two, the possibility... Or the three: occupation, that do not pay you – that goes associated with the other – and, above, limitation of the rental price, any rational individual or family will not put that apartment for rent. It's not because I say it. This has been experienced in cities that, with all the good will of the world, like Berlin – which has already ruled it out – applied it for almost three years and found that the public housing rental stock fell drastically, because nobody wanted to put their rental house, nobody wanted to do it! And that's the way it is. And it's normal and it's logical. No one wanted to do it. And it has been a profoundly failed experience, limiting the rental price. And in Berlin they have, they are correcting it, but they will have plenty of time to get over it. Let's go, therefore, to the second part, which is the strictly legal issue, let's go to the prestige of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries. Because, listen, here, then, we have some institutions that curiously, from the parliamentary majority that claims to want the most and respect the most and, finally, to give them all their brio, it turns out that they humiliate them once in a while. Of the fifteen articles of the law, eleven, according to the Board of State Guarantees, are illegal. Of the fifteen additional, transitional and final provisions, seven are unconscious..., is that there is practically nothing constitutional. And it is said by an organism perfectly – since you are obsessed with that – Catalan institutional, and you are again obviating it. And you know it's unconstitutional, but I've come to the conclusion that you're looking forward to us taking him to the Constitutional Court, you're looking forward to it; some have told us in private. As among you, government partners, private conversations are not respected, someone from the opposition will have to come to respect private conversations. I'll respect them. But you know perfectly well that these have occurred. And where you, by trying to circumstantially content the UPC or approach the commons, are today presenting absurd amendments, which have absolutely no path, because you are not able to solve fundamental elements that attack private property. And they are doing so because they consider, at the current political juncture, that they have to eat if that frog. And they are waiting for us, the People's Party, to be four seats here, but with enough seats in Congress, to take them, as we have done with the law that enshrines the occupation, to the Constitutional Court, and as so many property owners in Catalonia expect. And that's the way it is. What happens is that this method to you politically can be profitable at some point, and it is that the People's Party plays the wrong role; the Parliament of Catalonia approves a number of laws and it has to be the People's Party that takes you to the Constitutional when you wish. The problem is that little by little this fine rain is degrading the prestige of the Catalan institutions themselves. What prestige will the Statutory Guarantee Board have when it has been repeatedly disallowed in the past eight years? What prestige is he going to have? What prestige? I wonder. How will you recover it, when the parliamentarians in this chamber themselves pass it through the lining of respect over and over again? What's the point, then? Why do they have it? What do we have it for? Because it's an institution of all, for what? And that happens over and over again. It is a way of doing politics that, apart from repeatedly degrading the prestige of Catalan institutions..., you are obviating it because you are in a battle of power. We are all in power battles, when you are in politics; but the one that you are liberating, in this cruel way, between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya essentially, is just liquidated any prestige of any Catalan institution. Recapitulating, because my time is already running out, guaranteeing the right to housing – I repeat, a right, and that no one doubts – can never make the owner become a kind of enemy and make life impossible for him. That's not how it works. Nor do they work by imposing them, which is what you want to do today, prices that you yourself, when you rule in your public administrations, do not respect, and turn the public floor into a real estate house and speculate repeatedly with it. Nor can it serve to convert the occupation or leave the owners themselves at the mercy of the occupation. We, from our position – I always assume it and I think it is important to do it –, small in this case, will defend the Catalan owners. Let's remember that 93_per_cent of the property is small owners, families– families – who have saved their entire lives to have a second or a third residence, a small apartment, humble families. It's been like this all my life. Don't say no, Mrs. Capella, because that's the case; the data are conclusive – conclusive. And they're making life absolutely impossible for them, and that has consequences. They are left at the mercy of illegal occupation, forced at abusive prices, and that is not the way. We are going to defend these owners and, I repeat, as I assume that our amendments – which are not of the People's Party, but are to assume what the Council of State Guarantees says – will not be accepted, we will bring this to the Constitutional Court shortly, which I fear is what they are hoping for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.172.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, I cannot begin without showing my satisfaction for the agreement we reached today, which allows us to face this debate which is valid throughout Europe in order to preserve the right of citizens to housing, but in any case respecting the reality of Catalonia, a country where the small owner has a very important weight. The right of access to housing is present in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in the Spanish Constitution and in the State of Catalonia, but we are all aware that there are no instruments to guarantee the exercise of this right. For many people, the cost of housing is a very serious problem, as they have to spend an important part of what they earn, and in the case of young people it is a burden on their emancipation from the family home. And right now in Catalonia we're spending a 47_percent of the gross salary to pay the logger, a percentage that's a lot over the 30_per_cent that recommends we go to the United Nations. We are well aware that this is a difficult problem and probably one of the biggest ones they have now, the rest of European countries too, and that is why different countries, and also the European Parliament, are looking for a way to legislate to solve it. It is obvious that those countries that offer more solid public housing policies, such as now Austria or the Nordic countries, win where the investment in public housing is so great that the price of the llogers market has ended. But it is also true that in many other countries they have chosen to regulate these prices with the aim of finding a way out of the excessive increase in the prices of the loguers. We have not turned the agenda to the responsibilities of public policy administrations, and it has been demonstrated from the department with various policies, since the year 2015, when it was offered the right of aunt and retraction, pushing an index of prices, also regulating on empty habitats and investing a large amount of money in aid to the loguer. We already know that they do not want to talk about financing, because this topic always exhausts them, but remember that the Spanish State in 2019 contributed 37_million euros and the Generality, the rest, until it reaches 101_million euros in aid. That's not what Catalans deserve. But they don't want to talk about this. Although the effort is clearly insufficient, we are well aware that in order to give a solution to the current difficult problem of housing, as is being done in the rest of European countries, to seek solutions in the matter of housing policy. And we understand that here we can talk about the rights and rights of private property, as the deputy of the People's Party said. Each right involves a few deures; in the case of private property, too. We need, therefore, to establish certain rights over ownership, because this does not result in an obstacle at the time of exercising the right of access to housing. And from now on, we are very aware of Catalonia, and that is why we have been negotiating until the end with the Trade Union and with the groups proposing these laws, to find a just solution. A just solution passes by to listen to all the actors, to take into account the reality of our country. Catalonia, as they have said before, has an 85_percent of "lives with very different realities. « Propietari does not mean predatory. « Owners also want to say those honest citizens who with their students have mortgaged themselves to acquire a ‘living place', to complement their thinking when they are great. And from Juntas to Catalunya we consider that this reality cannot be allowed to pass and that in this law this should be taken into consideration. We are and will be in favour of regulation. In fact, it is shown by Decree Law 9/2019, which already proposed a regulation to contain the prices of the lloger, to avoid speculation, to ensure that the city has ensured a peaceful use of its 'living with continuity, that at the end of the contract it can not be expelled without more, imposing unabsorbed prices. But all those who these days asked us to approve this law without considering the small owner at that time voted that they did not and did not validate that decree, that they gave air to so many Catalan families; and we talk about the CUP and the commons. But today, leaving this band behind, it's a big day, because Catalonia passes a few times before the Spanish State and places its regulation at the level of all European countries, in order to face the difficult problems faced by the citizens. With the papers presented and finally traded, we simply ask that those who have certain entries do not satisfy the limitations imposed by this law. But, listen, it's not because they can make rich, no, no. So, in the end, we're talking about a 3 to 4_per_cent yield. That's not why. So, what we're trying to do with this measure is that it doesn't happen in other European cities, where people, they see legal insecurity, changing laws, they decide to sell or they decide not to buy, and so the properties have gone to great lengths. We can only regulate the market if there is a lot of offer and atomized. If we let him concentrate on the hands of great owners, we'll have very little room for manoeuvre. We also wanted to defend firmly that the owner can break this topall if he makes reforms in his home. We want to ensure that Catalonia's housing stock does not continue to grow. And I don't forget: this is for the benefit of everyone, not just the owners, but also the lodgers, to a decent living. It is a first step, and we must continue to work, because we cannot forget what is happening to the rest of the European countries, to cities like Paris, Berlin or Rome, where we have had to rethink these measures, because they have not been effective enough. Because it cannot be oblivious that forcing people to make public policies ends up giving a bad result, and therefore we believe that they would need – and we hope to be able to keep talking about it – tax incentives because they are people who voluntarily decide to put their habitats in it. This has already been rethought in Rome, and in Lisbon too, we are looking for models of consensus between owners' organizations and lodgers, to adjust prices, where, as we are asking, we are allowing an increase of the logger in case they make reforms to the habitats. And now it is up to us to ask for an effort of credibility, especially in the commons, and to ask them that, when their governing partner or other parties carry this law before the Constitutional Court, you react in truth and do not do as in other matters, as in the escape of the king emeritus, a little bit of pataleta and then we have not forgotten. The defense of the small owner is a red line for Junts per Catalunya, and we hope that they will help us, because they cannot make a different role than what is done here with what is done to Spain, where both Pablo Echenique and Pablo Iglesias have made demonstrations of the type to ask the government to protect vulnerable groups and small owners in the payment of rents. Another thing is very different if we talk about big forks, like banks or vulture funds, which have hundreds or thousands of floors that put in the rental market. Small owners deserve the same protection as those who can't afford the rent. O Churches when it is happy for the rental measures and asks to differentiate between small and large owners, which in the end is what until today we have had to fight in this law. So let's look together for a way out of this crisis without forgetting our reality, a way out worked and thought, where the reality of Catalonia is set on the table and housing policies make them the Administration. And, if we need regulations that affect the citizens in their right of ownership, we also need to make an effort to encourage it, with tax deductions and bonuses. It is compatible to defend everyone's rights, and above all to listen to all actors, please or not. And I ended up thanking the Trade Union of Lodgers once more for the effort made to finally reach an agreement with Juntes for Catalonia, which made us pull this law forward, with which we share the objective, but it was necessary not to forget that the small owner is also a reality of our country. You have, therefore, this is a victory of all, of society and of the will of understanding and dialogue to make a better country. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susana Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.174.0	Well, deputies, deputies, president... it's already been said: let's carry more than a decade with thousands of charges, let's go for mortgage execution, let's go for rent from the lodger. Twelve years after the great economic scam of 2008, thousands of families spend more than 40_per_cent of their income on the payment of the logger. Families who see how the reform of the LAU of the PP left them helpless in the face of voltorous foundations, large owners and Socimis. Families who have seen that when the contract was concluded, after three years, they ask for bids for up to 30, 40 and 50 per cent of their logger: 340, 500_euros apiece. Families who have had to abandon their home, change school, change barrels, change cities. Families condemned to overoccupation and infra-habitat because they cannot afford housing with the square meters that their family needs. Indiscriminate and abusive increases in loggers, the consequence, yes, of the lack of regulation: from the lack of regulation of speculation, from the lack of regulation of the benefit over the right to housing, from the lack of intervention of the State to protect the most vulnerable families. Because we remember that what governments have basically done, especially that of the People's Party, has always been protecting great owners, great investors and great speculators. This followed the policy of protecting the private property of the People's Party. Wages have not risen in the proportion, nor much less, that have risen to the loguers. Between 2014 and 2019, the lodgers have raised thirty times as many as subs to Catalonia, and this is what has led, in most cases, thousands of families to work to pay for a piss, and often they have not even been able to pay for it. And it was this emergence that led these families to organize themselves in the Llogateres Union, to defend their right to access a habitat of lloger, to not have to leave their home because those who lloger the habitat – because they are not lucky enough to have a habitat in property, as surely would the People's Party, which is a great luck, that of private property – do not abuse and apply exaggerated possibilities. Here we carry the result of years of struggle and family work and the defense of the lodger, a proposal of law presented for the Union of Lodgers with the support of four_ thousand entities of the country, a broad and transversal support, which at the beginning held the support of Esquerra Republicana, of Junts per Catalunya, of the CUP and of the commons, while that of Junts per Catalunya has to be recognized that it lasted a lot, the support to the initiative. From whom you don't have the support, that's for sure, it's from the APIs, from the agents of the property, and neither from Foment, who have already made it very clear to us that this intervention in the market to prevent it from continuing to enrich the usual ones, therefore, that they don't like them; I mean, don't surprise us, neither, that they don't like them. They like to put business, wealth and speculation in front of the guarantee of rights, and that's why they've tried to do whatever they can, whatever they want, to try to turn this law upside down. But I also say to them: despite the changes that have been introduced in the past hour to ensure that this can be approved, they have not succeeded. The object of this law will be maintained, and the regulation of the loggers and the impact on the right to housing of thousands of families will be effective from today. And that is clear to us, because that is what will make this Parliament a historic day today. We think it's a great adventure. If we do like Blackstone or Azora they're worried and they're freaked out, meaning doubt that's good news for thousands of families, it's good news that they're freaked out. And also, it also shows that the great capacity that the Trade Union of Lodgers has actually had is to put together forces as different as we put forward this initiative. And that's what makes it different from the decree of a year ago, which was handed down one time and another which was the same as that presented by Councillor Calvet..., which wasn't Councillor Calvet, plus, Member of the Street, was the Councillor Capella, I mean, we can also review a little hemeroteca, because it was the Councillor Capella who presented the decree, which fell. No, it is two different decrees: the one presented by Councillor Calvet was withdrawn, it did not fall, and the one presented by Councillor Capella was voted against, because, among others, it was the Trade Union of Llogateres who said that the decree did not serve, because it was full of exceptionalities that would not serve the application of this law. But it's also a law made in search of consent; neither do they think it's a law that everyone likes, because it's not that. I am sure that to the company of the CUP - Creed constitute and ourselves the fact of compromise with the index of reference, as one of the things that perpetuates this proposition of law, we cost a lot. It costs us a lot because we consider it an index of reference made from the market prices, which are inflated, and which they have speculated. So, it's not like it's something we're excited about. But we agree that consensus must be sought, and that if we had gone to the law that made the UPC would not have held the support; that if we had gone to the law we would have made the common ones, then we might not have held the support. But we went to defend the law made by the Trade Union of Lodgers, working with everyone – with everyone. And in the end, until the end, and we could all live and suffer, together with Juntes for Catalonia, which was very expensive, because what we would never stop hearing is why Juntes for Catalonia signed a bill of law and two days later presented eight items that were fully handled. This law that will be approved today will be above all a great first sign that it's not all going, that it's not all going in the name of benefits. You may not get an immediate download of the logger prices. Also, I stop thinking that the little owner comes back and forth, from this law, will stop charging what he's collecting; it's not true either. A small owner who is currently collecting eight hundred or nine hundred euros for a six-metre-square-foot pea at the Poble-sec, is that he will be able to continue charging them when this law comes in. This little owner, if it turns out that he decides that because he can't charge 1,200_euro for this pes after the application of this law is no longer worth the pes, it's that maybe he doesn't need the rent so much, because if he needs the eight hundred, nine hundred, he's going to stay there, and that's going to keep happening. And he will continue to feel a price that is very high, because nine hundred euros for a pea of sixty_metres_squares..., they will already explain to me which family of four members can live in a pea of sixty_metres_squares, which is surely what he will be able to pay eight hundred_euros with two working people. So, it's a law that comes back and forth that's the impact of stopping the abuses, stopping the deorbited increases, that people don't have to suffer when the contract's over and you're waiting for a bureaufax to come in and say, "If you don't pay me another three hundred euros, you can go. He's looking for another piss, and he's able to look for flats like he's desperate, because they have one left to leave his house, and they don't find me! Because they're all with these inflated prices. So that's what this law is going to do, it's going to lower the specular gain, it's going to lower the greed to abuse people who don't have private property. Because the defense of private property is fine, but maybe you should also think at some point about defending those who don't have private property and who don't surely have their life, who are the ones who live to meet. Because the people who live here are because they can't afford a private property, basically, and they won't be able to afford it for the rest of their lives. Then at some point you should think about defending those most vulnerable people who have not had the ability to stay alive or the opportunities to mortgage and buy a piss. And we're no longer talking about what they have more than one peas, because these are the renderers, the ones who see the renderers, and, honestly, identifying this with little owners seems to me to be out of any debate. On the papers presented, I mean, that the People's Party presents an issue of return and totality, so no, don't surprise us. I mean, they're the LAU, they're the Society's, that's to say, they're the ones who think big companies are better off. I mean, no surprise. I didn't bring it to the Constitutional either, did I? I mean, neither did... home, we've lived the two years we've lived. Then we'll talk about the bank rescue, which was also the work of you. You rescue banks, you don't rescue people. So the things that are going to rescue people don't interest them. About Ciutadans, I mean, little to say. Or, they think they can rule out a whole law, delete it and present their own... Present their own; present their own and see if they support Parliament. Because maybe what happens is that after they present things they don't have much support in this Parliament. Maybe that's why they've never ruled Catalonia, because of the lack of support they've always had. Then, perhaps, they present theirs, escort, and make a female debate that you propose. But this is a proposal that goes from organizations and social entities. Doing a trick like you've done is disrespectful. And to the Socialist Party of Catalonia, so, if they're down, I don't explain to them how we're downgraded with the paper you're playing with this law. Because you know perfectly well that the regulation of the logue is between the coalition agreement and that it must be advanced, and that June Minister Ábalos had bought himself to have a proposal to move forward in this regulation, and that we are in September, and that we are late. Therefore, if this law is to serve as a minimum because at the level of the State it is progressing – because the problem that we are identifying here and that we are placing here does not only pass to Catalonia, obviously – if this is to be the spearhead for which it is mogi and which makes effective the regulation of the loguers to the rest of the State, it is worth the debate that we are going to have here; it is worth it and all the recourse to the Constitutional of the People's Party. What would not be understood by the way, and would not be understood by thousands of families, is that the Socialist Party is not in a position of the band to negotiate the application of this law and to make the necessary mark because this law applies to Catalonia and the rest of the State. And that's where they'll find us as government partners; we'll work for that. And we'll work for the truth, not the word. Because, by the way, Juntes for Catalonia is quite skilled at manipulating the words, because we are now defending the people who are fighting to have a decent habitat, but this morning the new Interior Councilman was asking for a law to speed up the denunciations of the people who are occupying great holders – great holders! – that goes absolutely against the decree that they will approve the month of December. So maybe he's okay, too. We have reached an agreement thanks to the work of the Trade Union of Lodgers. And because in the end, you don't get it, but the one you ended up accepting is pretty convinced that they don't like it, because it's not on the line of the article that the same advisor Calvet published this morning. But we thank them for accepting that there must be, in this majority, because it wasn't much worse for you and much worse for thousands of families in Catalonia. So, that's what we recognize. And now, the effective will of the government to implement and enforce everything that this law says. Because there's a lot of responsibility that now lies with the government. Let's hope that we move from words, that they're important, and from this law, that it's important, to fact on the part of the government, and that they make it complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group..., I forgive, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent – apologies – has the words of the MP Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.176.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Yesterday, a few minutes ago, we were able to know that Together for Catalonia will vote in favour of this law. If that's the case, it's not because of his will, but because of the insistence, tenacity and the work done by the company of the Union of Lodgers. Three years of assemblies, campaigns, meetings, work absolutely tirelessly. Fight, fight and fight. The color, the head and the body before each denunciation, before police brutality and before the killing of Desokupa, which count on the complicity of these institutions. But the fight isn't over, this is a minimum agreement, it's a first pass in the fight for the right to habitat. Four thousand entities and social organizations support it, four hundred associations of veins and veins and twenty-three federations. Here we see the tradition of unionism and the venerable associationism of our country, which always, before the incapacity of these institutions, defend our rights. This law, we know, is minimal, but now it's a law that's going to be able to defend it. It will be good to defend it because..., said the representative of the PSC, I suppose you also spoke on behalf of your PSOE companies : "It is an unconstitutional and anti-statutory law. I suppose what is constitutional in this country is to let the king go, it's the bank rescue, it's to have pardoned 226 policies condemned to stop corruption, it's also the misappropriation of the Castor project. And, look, we're defending you, we're defending you from these institutions, I hope, but we'll do it above all from the street and next to all those entities that have supported you, just like we were defending the right to self-determination the U of October, organizing us on the street and going out into a determined town and up to the last consequences, for the right to housing, because it's about a fundamental right. Mirin, you're talking about the little owner, and you need to protect the little owner. They don't cheat. If they want to respond to the interests of the real estate agencies, to the interests of speculators, if they want to continue defending the same model as always, if they want to continue defending that thousands of families each day get into the street, they explain it. But they didn't come to us to talk about the protection of the little owner. Because, you see, we will explain it with an example, because the people who are seeing us understand us: defending the small owner for you means that a person who today is charging for a 50_metre_square pea at Nou Barris about 850_euros, after the prices in Barcelona have risen from 2014 until 2019 a 46_per_cent, can continue to raise the price of this winemaker. That they didn't get it? I mean, don't you know the reality beyond these four walls? That they don't see honest families on the street every day? That you don't get it, that the sound of one of the people you saw in the house is going straight to pay for the logger? That they don't see that there are thousands of people affected by ERTOs, that there are a lot of people who haven't been able to sign or even sign the contract of labor? That they're not aware of the social reality we find ourselves in? We can't get to understand that they come to us with the speech, this yes, demagogic protection to the small owner. Are we saying that after a 46_per_cent boost in the last five years, a person should continue to increase the price of the logger? Is this really the country they want? Is that really what they want for the people who vote for them? We don't understand. And the Socialists' Single Reading Party was talking to us, wasn't it? That's the way it's done. Mirin, when Article 135 of the Constitution was amended to put the interests of the financial entities and the banks before the interests of the people, you did not put any glue on this single reading process. Neither did they put this one-reading procedure in place when the Constitutional Court's Organic Law was amended. And do you know what's going on? That here it is neither a question of competition nor a question of status or anti-status or constitutional or unconstitutional, but it is a question of the interests that are defending themselves. And when it comes to defending the interests of the usual, of the extractive elites, of these people who make money at the expense of the misery of the majority, it's all constitutional, it's all statutory and for all we have competitions. What's wrong with Barcelona World? Hey, what's up? What did we have a problem when it came to speculating with the territory? Neither do you. That's right, when it comes to defending people's rights, we always have problems, we always don't have competition, it's all unstated. And, look, there are many, many more measures to protect the right to housing. In fact, I have to ask the question of private property. And the representative of the People's Party said: "It is here that private property is being asked. Look, no, this isn't about private property; here it's just telling the owners that after 46_per_cent of pushing in five years of the price of the frenzy, that it's over, that it can't follow the thing like that, because it's going to explode somehow. But no, it's not about private property. We'd be happy to have the private property in question, because, truth be told, it's all about inequality. In fact, if we look at the data, the lodgers have pushed thirty times more – thirty times more – than the subs to the Principality of Catalonia. Look, we're spending more than 40 percent of our money to pay for the logger. And do you know what this law does? So, for example, if I pay 8 cents a month, when the contract is over I can't push the price. So many people... well, I don't know if you know people who pass it, I suppose, because there's a lot of people with this case. Many people, when the contract is over, start trembling and making boxes because the owner or the owner calls them and says: "Listen, the month you see her home, which is worth eight hundred euros, will be worth 1,400 euros, and so if you can't pay her I'll take the boxes and leave. Ah, and dedicate's, for real estate portals, to look for another house and credit the solvency requirements that ask you to enter another piss. I don't know if they did, you guys, this, but it's a odyssey, it's very complicated, to access a lynch. Even though you have the money to pay the monthly allowance. And, therefore, to regulate the prices of the logger, to put an end to this situation. I could do it from now on. And I think you're common sense. It's so common sense that there are four thousand social organizations and entities that they support. That the thousands of members of the Trade Union of Lodgers are people who see this reality every day. And the only one we're asking is for people to be escorted. And you talk a lot about responsibility to us, on many occasions, sometimes from a perspective that I don't like very much, but I think you're voting against this law, it's a big irresponsibility. Now, this law will prosper today, and from the time that thousands of families come into force, they will see directly how they can breathe calmly because when the contract of the lodge ends, they will not be able to raise the price of which they are paying so far. And we want to finish this intervention by saying that, precisely, we know that it will be necessary to defend this law until the last consequences. And that's precisely why we're warning ourselves that we're organizing, that we're putting all our collective intelligence into the right to housing service, and that we're doing it at the expense of popular movements, as always, and that no one – no one – will be able to stop precisely this right to housing movement that fights every day to guarantee rights that are not guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.178.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor. This seems to be a monogram ple in the habitat area, and today it is certainly a monogram ple in the habitat area because it has a'very republican talent. First, because there is a measure today that we value and vote driven by a Republican Councillor and the Llogators Union and four groups – in this case, three independenceists and one left-wing – that push it, and a measure that we will talk about in the next point driven by the Republican Group. They are measures which, moreover, I doubt very much – I doubt very much – which is never discussed in the Congress of Deputies. And I want you to be clear about the differences in that. Even so, it is the position of groups that oppose these measures. It is possible to make a debate that will not be in the Congress of Deputies, a debate on the law regulating the priests of the logue and a debate on how Sareb should return to society the resources we have donated. And I'll start, I'll focus now on this law. Before the 2008 crisis there was the dogma around the markets, as less regulated, better. This dogma has been eradicated, and today we know that markets require regulation and counterpower. The same economists who recommended deregulation of all markets and who warned us that regulating the prices of housing was the worst idea at the same time. They had us bury more than 100,000_million euros in discounts for the sale of housing and bury more than 200,000_million euros in social protection housing for the sale of housing. These measures have helped to improve the problem of housing. Captain. Even so, if they've had any effects, it's inflating the real estate bubble. All that went well with is the brokers, the banks, the real estate agents and the promoters. Injecting public money that basically prevented it from regulating and touching the benefits of the real estate market. We have some Members here who are sure that they will use arguments from the old economy, and we have listened to them, to vote against this regulation. But there are scientific articles that question the control of loguer prices that create these problems that you warn. I'll quote some articles. Having scientific information helps to try to find the fonts. Mr. Gyourko and Mr. Lineman stated that it is surprising the small amount of evidence on the supposed negative effects of price control; as the theoretical arguments of the old economy are so clear, economists have not made the effort to quantify and study the effect they predict. David Sims : "The control of the price of the logger has no effect on the construction and offer of new habitat; the price control of the logger, if it has any effect on quality and maintenance, is small and in secondary aspects. Edgard Olsen : «There is no empirical basis for the strong belief that the conventional economy has that the control of prices entails a worse maintenance of habitats. Richard Attnort: "Theoretical arguments against logger control systems are weak, especially when we consider the housing market to be imperfectly competent. The empirical basis against price control is also weak. The economists should reconsider their frontal opposition and assess it on a case-by-case basis, which has not done any serious analysis of the proposal we are presenting today, nor just in articles that have been published today itself. After forty years of doing the same and listening to the same – the APIs, the promoters, the owners' associations, the bank, the funds of reversal – we arrive today with the problem of housing still worse than at the beginning of democracy. Maybe you could change the strategy? The 2008 crisis brought real wages down by 15_per_cent, while the prices of the logger in this same period have risen by 50_per_cent. And now we are adding to the crisis of the Covid, which has left millions of people still more vulnerable than ever before. If before it was an obvious need, now, today, it's more. To do so is a huge and collective social emergence. We can't wait any longer and we don't want to wait any longer. The famous sources back now are betting to raise the prices of logger exponentially, until there are also penalties of competence to real estate portals to artificially inflate the prices. And before who speculates and who perverts a habitation right they'll find us face to face. Regular pricing is not something we make up because we want to. Many of Europe's cities have begun to regulate the prices of the loguer with topalls that allow us to fight this new speculative cylinder. Cities with Paris, Berlin, Rome, Vienna or New York have faced this problem by mediating, among others, measures to regulate the price of lloger. And where it turns out they're ineffective is because they haven't been tougher yet, and they're getting tougher. They stopped listening to the visions that made the housing problem great to try to do something different. Now it's our turn. It is surprising that here, in Catalonia, but also in the Spanish State, that we share the memory of being the country where the most percentage of family income is destined to pay the logger, did not intend to make any regulation until the Parliament of Catalonia has laid down this law. And they're against this read the usual: the companies that benefit from the price of the loguers being high and the speculators. And use a few more economists that have already been used to help create the former speculative bubble. There are also against Foment du Treball, which the more valuable would be to say « Foment de l'IBEX 35. It would be good for you to win for once if you were the citizens, the lodgers. And the loggers for organizing and having an eye; some loggers who have reached an agreement with the Department of Justice and, finally, with four groups in Parliament. Opponents of this regulation remind me of those who oppose collective bargaining and minimum wages. It is very clear that groups such as Citizens or PP have basically made statements that distort the whole law. You don't want to regulate the real estate market, like you don't want to regulate the soil, like you don't want to regulate the labor market, or you want a minimum wage, or obviously regulate the prices of food. What you really want is to detail the political freedoms and keep the law bite or the repressive laws. The only freedom they are interested in is freedom of enterprise without limits and without topalls; the only right they know how to defend. It is normal: they are dedicated to following instructions of the old economy, FAES, Mr. Garicano... That's why I'm insisting that you want and say that you defend the right of the habitation to give support to this law. There is no shortage of competition conflicts, excuses: they show that they want to face this problem. And a message to all independent politicians of this Parliament: approving this law is surely a way of proving that some of us do not want an independent Catalonia to do the same as the Spanish State does. We always talk about republic and independence, which is what we want, but these words will be empty if we don't have them as real contents. And today we have an opportunity. On the 21st of December they presented us with a set of objectives, some of them are very difficult because of repression and lack of will of dialogue and democracy in the Spanish State. But making a republic also means showing that Catalonia has a political and social majority different from that of the State that has the will to face the problem of housing so that I think the Congress of Deputies will never do it. What we do know is what's going to happen if we don't throw this law in front of us. On September 30th, the moratorium on lloger contracts for the Covid-19 expires. Many loggers will push the price of housing onerously after six months of being unable to do so, and in full crisis context. If we don't get this law through, thousands of Catalans and Catalans will be unprotected and unprotected. Parliament will not have been useful or able to defend them. The interests of the citizenry are the ones we must prioritize. Moguin file to advance towards a socially just republic. And today's a must-see historic step is at our hands. I want to thank the team of Constellera Capella and the Syndicat de Llogaters for the effort to reach such an important agreement. Together with Councillor Calvet, he asked them not to go back to making such a mess, especially at the lodgers. But we've come to an agreement, and that's the important thing. I come from the union world, I know it's better a difficult and complicated deal before it ends with a disagreement and doesn't have the law. The PSC is asked not to overwhelm itself with competing arguments. But they especially ask them not to use the power that they give them to form part of the Government of Spain to suspend the law by sending it directly to the TC as a government. In fact, let me tell you this: I think they're cowards; they're the goose of the hortola: neither regulate the prices of lloger nor let the other rules. Now they can't afford it. The social tsunami they find will stop them. Now the lodgers are organized, and just as they did when labor unionism was born and this assumed the monopoly of the power of the entrepreneurs... Social pressure in the streets and in the media has caused many of you to change your postures and have made us find ourselves in this faristol defending a law that will regulate the price of the lodger, and this time we have won it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the intervention of the groups, the Councilwoman of Justicia, Mrs Esther Capella, asked for an intervention. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.180.0	Thank you, President. Very late, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. I'm taking part in this show, and I'm not going to spoil the joy I'm supposed to talk to you about and recognize that the step we're taking is a historic step to secure the right to a decent habitat. And to thank also the paper that each of the parliamentary groups have played that support this law, still in time of discount, still in the way it is, but in any case the step it represents. And obviously to the Union of Lodgers, for their perseverance and for their willingness to bring forward this proposal of law. The day..., and with this read what we are saying is: we give enough to the price increase of the loguer over the 20, the 30, the 40_per_cent; that the right to obtain an economic cure of a property must have limits, it is not unlimited this right, there is no unlimited right. And today we have limits to the speculation of the housing market. Because we can't talk about social cohesion, we can't talk about social cohesion if we don't have limits on the market. Because a person has a decent life he must also have guaranteed the right to a decent habitat, he must have a right to a basement. Also, if we do not face abusive pricing, if we do not have limits to the increase in the pricing of the logger, habitating will never – never – be or will be a right. And defending the right to housing is not an attempt against the right to property, or in this case to the social function that the property must have; property also has a social function. Mirin, in the last year the price increase of the lloger has already been generalized within our country, and especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area. And the end of it, so, it's accentuated. In Barcelona, six years ago – all just six years ago – a seven-four-meter-square piss cost seven-cents of monthly income; now, today, it's already worth a thousand. It's an increase of over 40 percent. Therefore, we could not be left with folded arms; we would have to sort, and we would have to sort between the excesses of the returnable foundations or the protection of the weakest, between the wealth without limits or the right to decent habitat, between the gentrification of our barrels or the preservation of our barrels. We've sorted it out, this Parliament sort it out. And today, when we triage, we raise a wall against abuse, give it enough and lay limits to the priests of the lodgers. It's the first time that Catalonia and the conjunction of the State, so it's produced, and so it's a law that regulates the prices of the loguers. And despite those who want us to be left with our arms folded, we can only reaffirm the need to limit the increase in the prices of the loguers to our country. And we have done so – despite the fact that some say all the contrary – in the exercise of our own powers, in the exercise of our powers in the field of civil law, as we have done so many and many times before; we have done so many times before, in the exercise of our powers in the field of civil law. We did it when we regulated the fetal pairs, we did it when we regulated the fetal pairs of the same sex. Then there was also someone who said that we were not competent. We're competent and we're exercising our skills. And that doesn't mean confronting anyone, it means donating solutions to what citizens are asking of us. That's why parliaments are needed, that's why governments are needed, and that's why, so... what does society and life mean in a different way and in the sense of social progress? Today this Parliament is voting for an initiative that comes out of the agreement between the Trade Union of Llogateres, the Department of Justice, also for the work that accompanied us at a certain time the Department of Territory, but also, therefore, after many months of negotiation – after many months of negotiation –, practically a year of negotiation. And that's why I want to especially thank the Llogateres Union for its... first, perseverance, its willingness to consent and negotiate, until now, until the last minute, already in time of countdown, so why this initiative taken forward. A year ago – just a year ago and a few months ago – we had to break mental marks, those who said that it was not possible, that it was not possible to talk about regulating the priests of the loguer. So it's pot. And when you want, you can do things. I also want to thank all the parliamentary groups, so that they support this initiative: Together for Catalonia, Republican Left of Catalonia, Catalonia in Comú Pueblo and the CUP, which took over the text that had previously been worked out and which was already, therefore, ready and agreed. You have all the papers, together with Parliament, departments and the Trade Union of Lodgers, so let's push a law, this law. But also, as I said, we are taking a great historic step in order to guarantee a decent habitat for everyone, who is not confronted with the defense of property – who is not confronted with the defense of property. We are taking a historic step and we are taking a step closer to the abuser's price, and we are doing so in the exercise of Catalonia's own competitions in the field of civil law. Thank you very much, everyone. And now a new process begins, which will actually lead to this law being able to last a long time, not having any doubt about all the folds. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.181.0	Thank you, Counselor. After the Councillor's intervention, if the groups want it, we open a two-minute turn per parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.182.0	Thank you, President. I ask you to be patient and generous over time, because my group has received the amendments negotiated after the intervention and, therefore, we have not been able to position ourselves on this. That is why I want to record the lack of respect for this institution. We have been able to position ourselves on an important part of the law, of the text that is going to be put to the vote, and... that, then, denotes the contempt and contempt of these parliamentary groups that have not even had the parliamentary courtesy to apologize, or at least make a mention, or have us..., I don't know, right? , to have given us an explanation in your speeches. It is the little respect that the parliamentary groups of Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra, common and the CUP have for the right to democratic political participation, as we are already accustomed to. Some compromise amendments have been amended when we had already started the parliamentary debate. And we wonder whether this is the respect that the citizens we represent deserve, who do not even deserve, it seems, that their representatives, therefore, know the text that you intend to impose and that you intend us to vote on. All this only helps us to reaffirm that we are back in a new act of victimistic propaganda in order to cover the years of proceedings in which the public budget has gone to friends and chiringuitos and not to make public housing policies. These negotiated amendments have the same problem as the original text. First, it violates the competences of another administration, and second – and I am going to use the same rhetorical use of the questions asked by the deputy Maria Sirvent – is it that they do not realize that this proposal has already been tested elsewhere and has not worked? Do they not know that such policies or regulations lead to a worsening of the situation? Do they not know that such policies create waiting lists or a black housing market? Or do they know, but all they care about is the mess? And I'm saying that because these ideas are already obsolete, they've been tested and they haven't worked. Catalonia, in the past, was a pioneer in many areas, in many. And now, then, we are years behind in terms of effective and modern policies. And it is that, honestly, I, reading these texts..., for me, then, you are an old man. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, finally, today's conclusion is that populism in Spain has a soundtrack and is a song of dislove. On the one hand, we have the Government of the Generalitat that seems to be Pimpinela, and this law has been a great example, and, on the other hand, we have the commons signing this law knowing that Podemos will have to swallow the recourse to the Constitutional Court, and that gives us a hint of how irrelevant it is right now that Podemos in the Government of Spain, which even the commons are beginning to demarcate from that brand. And so we are waiting for the staging of the break-up, not only between commons and Podemos, but also between Podemos and Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.183.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs. Ibarra, yes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.184.0	Thank you, President. From the escó and breument. The counselor told us that this bill will be approved at the time of the countdown, and it's the way it's going to be, right? So no, look, counselor, things aren't so good, they're not as good as they are – they've used these words – they're not as good as they are; things are going to try to do well, because if they're good they create security and if they're bad they create expectations of a collection that legitimately has them but they may not be able to see them complete and create insecurity in other collections. And so things are going to be all right. It has to be done well in the background and in the form, and before that was referred to by the deputy of Ciutadans: it is not a waste that we have held the transactions in this Chamber, in the House of Commons, when we have already started even the whole debate of this point. And, therefore, such an important issue, of such transcendence, cannot be done so; it must be done with a little more rigour. And speaking of rigor, Mr. Rodriguez told us we were cowards. And, look, we may be a lot of things, but we're not people or anything. What we like is to be strict. Rigor, do you hear anything, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.185.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.186.0	Yes, thank you. From the escó, president. The councilwoman went out to the Faristol to tell us again what she told us in the past Ple, where she approved the unique reading of this bill, and it is that the Generality has the skills. I took it hard to propose a law to the Board of State Guarantees and take it back to what the Board of State Guarantees says. So it seems that neither the opinion issued by the Board of State Guarantees, which is not the first, is the second, and the Board of State Guarantees says that it divides articles or dispositions of this law are unconstitutional, basically because you do not have the competence to regulate the market for logue and regulate the prices of the logue. And a second question, very briefly. Mr. Rodriguez also illustrated us with a set of scientific articles. The fact that one has been forgotten, which I believe is important, is that it is the report drawn up by the Catalan Competition Authority defending exactly the same arguments that we have defended most opposition groups, that we would vote against this bill, and that, of course, it is chaired by a Republican leftist activist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. Any more intervention on this turn? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, Mr. Rodriguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.188.0	Oh, I'm sorry. From the escó. It seems, sometimes, that instead of a parliament it is the changing hour, because of what we have been told "old people". Sometimes the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group listens to bells and thinks it's Beethoven's fourth symphony. I think we have already explained, with academic scientific articles – certainly, an academic paper is not what you mentioned, but I understand that you may not have the training to differentiate it. I'm also surprised you're telling us that this law... knows that one of the transactions is a transcription of the LAU? No, I don't know, because he couldn't look at it or he didn't want to look at it. And so is the PSC. You say you're doing all right and that's why you have to do everything with time and so on. I think they'll make the best derogation from the law of life, the best derogation from labor reform, and the best reform of the law of the world's llogers, but they'll make them maybe 2750. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.189.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.190.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.191.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.192.0	It seems to me to be a lack of respect for this Member, but I believe that from the side of the House, I doubt the formation of Members. I, Mr. Rodriguez, didn't ask him for his resume to know if what defense in the Faristol is fit for his formation or not. Therefore, I would ask you to have Mr. Rodriguez withdraw the expression you used, which seems to me to be a spectacular disrespect. [[José Rodríguez Fernández intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.193.0	No, not so, Congressman. If you want, I give you the word to justify your expression. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Or to withdraw it, actually. [[Pause.]] Say it, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.194.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...I am: it is necessary to have passed a doctoral or predoctoral training process in order to know what is the difference between an academic paper or an administered paper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Widow's remorse.]] Lady Sirvent, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.196.0	Yeah. To say that today is a day of celebration, because this has been a result of social movements, of the movement in defense of the right to housing, of the Union of Lodgers. And tell Councilwoman Capella and Councilman Calvet that they now have a responsibility. And, if this law is government law, you must ensure that this law applies and you must also guarantee that everyone is informed. Now even any logger or logger that sees that your logger contract will suffer an increase has to be able to apply this law. Let's hope that this law is truly effective and that we defend it. We will defend her in Parliament, on the street, all the way and until the last consequences, at the expense of a determined people, who always knows how to defend their rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.198.0	No, he really wanted to take the word to answer the councilwoman in some way; he also wanted to say that, in fact, we believe that it is a day of celebration, that it will surely be one of the days that the session of this Parliament is followed by more people in the street, at his home; that I believe that from here we must give a clear message that today is making a strong bet to defend the right to housing these thousands of families; that there must be a certain part of it, that it is its implementation, to guarantee the inspection resources and the managed resources needed because there is a conflict between the lessor and the lessor can apply it, that it is not yet in a paper law. But also to say that, effectively, the regulation of llogers is a fundamental step but cannot be the only one, that there is a whole other series of battery measures than here the councillor Calvet, from the area of Territori, we hope that he will also implement with resources, like Decree 17/2019, and also increase the resources for the investment in the construction of protected lloger habitat, because indeed the future will be at the bottom of the llogers when we have a social park that you serve to temper the private market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, Mrs. Gloria Freixa's deputy, too, if she wants to intervene. Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's finish the debate here and, as you know, the vote is finally going to be this late, after all the points of the order of the day that are to be dealt with today, and after the eighth point of the order of the day. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Law Proposal to guarantee the social return of the bank bailout (debate of totality)]] [[270-00002/12]] Let's move on to the next, which is the fifth, which is the totality debate on the Proposal to present to the Congress Bureau of the Deputies the Law Proposal to guarantee the social return of the bank bailout. In accordance with Articles 176 and 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place, he introduced the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mr José Rodríguez. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.200.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members. In the previous debate we have been able to talk about loguers and the limitation of their price. We also approved assumptions that extend the investment in housing policies and, in particular, bet for the rehabilitation and expansion of a public social housing park. As a group, we have promoted measures that promote mediation during this Covid crisis, and today we can start a legislative debate on a law proposal that aims to expand the public housing stock and correct a weight produced during the Spanish bank bailout. Approaching policies need to address multiple strategies and different fronts, and so we are doing in our parliamentary initiatives, and so we are doing in the republican municipalities. Sometimes we approve motions and resolutions and give us the feeling that this is our job, and that we are done here, and that the expression of Parliament's will is enough, but sometimes it is not so. Today we have a proposal for a law that develops an agreement of the Parliament of the Movement of 2018, the 39/XII, on the return of the bank bailout, which claimed that the Company of the Management of Acts Processors of the Bank Restructuring, better known as Sareb, acquired a clear social compromise that guarantees a social return to the bank bailout. Today we are trying to transform this motion which has been approved into a legislative initiative; we are trying to bring to fruition what Parliament itself has been mandated to do, which has affected people's day-to-day lives. I want to begin by saying that this legislative initiative is the result of a replenishment race, and there is an important part of the previous housing portfolio to the Republican Group, Eva Baró, and I want to recognize it the work it left behind so that today we can start the debate on this bill. The bank rescue meant a high cost of aid to the sector, through the FROB and the Deposit Guarantee Fund, of more than EUR 64,000_million. More than a rescue, it was a white check that exempts the sector from responsibilities. Spain is the European state that has lost the most with the bank bailout. We calculate – it is calculated, not ourselves –, it is calculated, that from these 64,000_million euros Spain will not recover from it as at least 48,000. While the Spanish State lost these €48,000_million, the Netherlands, the United States or the United Kingdom have recovered them with interest, and in France even the entire public sector has been benefiting from the rescue. Not everyone has been well: both Germany and Italy have also been able to recover all the ransom, but their lost ones do not come close to the Spaniards. Moreover, the Greuges syndic warns that with the bank bailout it has lost the opportunity of the social return, for not having included no obligation for Sareb on the cessation of habitats to allocate them to social logger or to create a public park of social habitation. So, can we talk, with these data, about a public money policy without going back? I think so. And as much as they are now doing financial maneuvers to try to recover the losses of the State with Bankia, making the merger with CashaBank, to make this entity profitable, I think that with this they will not recover the 48,000_million euros lost. Sareb was designed as a tool to be able to move away from toxins and make a loss, without social compromise. While Sareb has reached some agreements with the locals to be able to use some of these acts in the cessation of use, it is still a rather ridiculous volume of habitat, far from which it could be profitable. Therefore, the purpose of this bill's proposal is to correct this difficult deficiency that occurred in the bank rescue, guaranteeing a social return that is also used to expand the public park of social logger and housing bag to attend to housing emergence. Our proposal has two objectives and a very simple articulation. The first is a modification of the legal regime of the statutes of the Sareb that requires the cessation of the domain to the public administrations of 30_percent of its assets. 30_per_cent is the recommended percentage for the Greuges Synod and approved for the 2018 motion. They also know it's a point of debate. There are groups that have already shown us that this percentage wants to increase. The other part of the law's proposal has the objective of overcoming the Law on Presuppositional Stability and Financial Sustainability, known as the Montoro Law. We would like it to be repealed, because it is a sacre for local authorities, and much more so in this situation of the crisis of the Covid, but assuming that the "most progressive government must have a very good will, but it has never been done and they do not repeal the law bite, neither the labor reform nor the Montoro law, we would focus on making a small modification of this law: providing the joints that have the capacity to finance and the healthy accounts to be able to use this capacity to invest in social housing by means of the aunt and retraction, as an exception to the Montoro law. If we don't do it, a significant part of the mortgage execution will be in the back of the public park. Besides, we're doing it for a non-useful way. And it's that an autonomous parliament can make a legislative initiative so Congress can modify a law. Some want Parliament to be just a species of parliament that transposes state laws, and the Generality, a mere service manager. We have been reduced by the marks of which we may or may not decide through the centralization made by the Constitutional Court and, at last, they have detailed to us what we can or cannot debate in this Parliament. But now we're making a proposal that you can't put up with under competitive arguments. They can't go to the Constitutional Court to repeal agreements or limit debates. Maybe they'll want to do politics now. What they will not be able to, surely, is to keep themselves permanently behind the Constitutional Court, at least this time. In fact, the surprise is that this initiative does not come from the "most progressive government in the history of Spain or from the majority groups to Congress and it must be the Parliament of Catalonia that can push it forward. Perhaps because Catalonia has this social majority in favour of changes that are not in Spain and we can open these debates that do not come to open the Congress of Deputies, as we have opened in the previous debate. But I don't want to be left with this. I think it's much more constructive to hope that we can start this legislative debate, that we get this proposal from the law, and that we show what the will of the Catalan Parliament is. To demonstrate that there is a social majority in Catalonia in favour of a reform of the regulation of the Sareb, to facilitate the ability of the assemblies to access the aunt and retract of the mortgage executions and to force the Congress to have this debate. I believe, in fact, that this proposal of the law can have a broad support: on the part of the progressive forces, because they will agree deeply with the need for the bank rescue to have a social return; on the part of the sovereignist forces, because we can demonstrate that the Parliament can start once more the debates that Congress does not meet. But, regardless of the political color of each of us, we believe that recovering public money that has ended up in private hands with the rescues and ending up in the form of public social housing is an objective that all the forces of this hemisphere can share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.201.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which has presented a report to the totality, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.202.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I also see that this proposal that they present to us has generated a great expectation between the Government of the Generality – certainly competent in the matter of housing – and that this is the core of the object and of our goal to the totality: to denounce that this proposal for a law to the Congress to modify legislation and to promote access to housing is nothing more than a smoke curtain attempt to try to ignore that which has competence in the matter of housing, that is the Government of the Generality. And it is also a proposal for a parliamentary group that forms part of the Government of the Generality, on the one hand, but also for a parliamentary group that supports the Government of Spain, on the other hand. This is the goal of totality: to visualize this – we understand – lacks coherence. But there is one other, which is a certain futility of the proposal that you present to us, which basically has two objectives, two great objectives. The first: that this small public society, small private, that is the Sareb, gives 30_percent of the buildings to public administrations. Textually, that's what the proposal says. And for another band, that the joints can allocate the surplus for the acquisition of habitat via tante and retraction, perpetuating..., because you criticize the Montoro law, but what they ask for the proposal is to perpetuate one of the dispositions that is established in that law, which is precisely that the joints can serve the surplus for this purpose. And one_second element derived from this second block is that communities can target overhauling. And that would be perfectly shareable, as far as housing is the competence of the Generality, but I don't know what you must be thinking about when you make this proposal, because I don't think it's exactly in the Generality's surplus, because it's neither yours nor expected, and much less now, that it doesn't seem to be coming. And that's what they're asking for through perpetuity, too, from a disposition of the 2018 Presumables Act, when you, of course, have to depend on the fact that the government can have some presuppositions. Look, we're in agreement with what he does to the availability of surpluses for part of the joints. We agree now, at this time, in these situations and in these circumstances. And surely we are late, because the Government of Spain, with its support, has decided to confiscate the surplus of the joints and, therefore, limit this possibility to the joints to access through the taneig and retract to the housing property in order to allocate it to social habitation. But this – in which, I insist, we agree – is the responsibility of the competent administration: the Government of Catalonia. So what we can't pretend, what they can't pretend, is that the Generality centrifuges its responsibilities into its joint competitions. For what it does to the availability of surpluses by the communities, I have already told it that it is not the case of Catalonia, but that the group that forms part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and, therefore, has the competence in habitating, is the policy of habitating to the existence of surpluses in public accounts means that they take very little account of the competence of habitating. Surely, among its list of priorities of public policies, housing is relegated to a certain conjuncture that, if a surplus is produced, then we will already make an effort to acquire housing. And so it goes – and so it goes. Certainly, it has not been the priority of the Government of the Government of the past few years of housing policy, and that is why we have part of the problems that we have. But let's move on to the proposal in relation to Sareb. The Sareb, which looks like the golden hen, doesn't it? It's like a species of invention. No, listen, the Sareb was formed, it was created precisely to manage financial assets and real estate assets transferred for the rescued financial entities. And you have an objective. You have an objective, which is precisely trying to clean up all these actions so that you can return the debt – so that you can return the debt. And, therefore, why this debt – this bank bailout, which you say – affects the least possible public account, and therefore affects the least possible social policies as well; it is clear. This is the main objective, the main object of the Sareb. Summary: Minimize the cost–minimize the cost– of bank rescue. Now, said that; does that mean that the Sareb cannot allocate housing to social policies? No, that doesn't mean that, on the contrary. From the first day Sareb destined the immobiles, the « vivendes– because it has immobiles of many types – to make social policies as well. Yes, it does, and they're doing it from their beginnings, and that's why neither legislative reform nor state reform is needed, which is what you're proposing here today. Mirin, Santa Coloma, Barcelona, Calafell, l'Hospitalet, l'Ametlla del Vallès, Vilafranca del Penedès, Sant Feliu de Guixols, Sant Joan les Fonts, Sant Jaume d'Enveja... Badalona, last July, signed an agreement with the Sareb in which 256 dwellings to make social policies are ceded. But the same Generality – yes, a councillor surely for you innumerable – the councillor of Territori Santi Vila signed two agreements with Sareb and we have the cessation of nine hundred habitats – 930, concretely. And in total, the Sareb, in these moments, all of Spain has yielded to different administrations, which is what you ask in this proposal, more than 2,500 habitats – more than 2,500 habitats. About how many? About minus deu_mil, which represents approximately a 25_per_cent– a 25. You're asking for a 30; there's no more than a 25_per_cent in the conjunct of Espanya. But, look, Catalunya. Look at data from Catalunya. In these moments the Sareb in Catalonia has the property of 3,090 habitats; 3,090 habitats, of which 1,783 are yielded to joints and to the same Generality; 1,783_on_3.090. You'll agree with me that you don't have much training to see that this represents a percentage of approximately 60_per_cent. It's from Epi and Blas: 60, which is reality, it's bigger than 30, which is what you propose. Therefore, the measure that you propose is quite innocent and has absolutely no impact, because they ask for legislative changes to be made to do something that is already being done, and that more is being done far more intensely than you ask. But, I insist, what we have understood that you intend to do with this proposal is to try to centrifugal the competencies of the Government of the Generality in terms of housing, and that it is incomplete, and the result of this is the housing problems that we have in Catalonia, in terms of municipalities or in terms of the state; when what they should do is hard to term housing policies. That's why we presented the item to the totality, to put it into replenishment this circumstance. At these times I believe we have put the safety of this proposal in place. It is a proposal that has no recourse or practical effects. Yes, we consider the fact that the assemblies can use their surpluses, and not what the Socialist Party and Can's government has already done, that it is confiscating these surpluses for the use of the same government of the State. And, therefore, we consider that the proposal does not represent a solution to the problem of housing, but neither does it have any sense that we are keeping a point to the full in this proposal, because, nor that you have a recourse, the appeal, frankly, we are convinced that it will be very short. Basically, because whatever you ask, especially what you do to the Sareb, it's already complete and, more importantly, it's growing. Thank you. Therefore, President, I am giving the whole of this proposal for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.203.0	All right. It's clear. Thank you, Congressman. We're still on the table, and I'm sending him a turn against Congressman José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.204.0	Yes; I'll answer..., I'll try not to stretch'mmolt. Sometimes mathematicians play past evils, and the habitat stoop that Sareb has now is not the habitat stoop that Sareb has had throughout its history. In fact, the Sareb has managed 68,300 habitats; it has managed, in fact, 68,300 habitats. I think a 30_per_cent – I'm doing very quick clicks–, you have to go between fifteen and twenty-thousand, which are not those two_thousand that you say. They're data from the Sareb, from the web. Now 68,300 habitats have come. I understand that there are times when confusion is very easy between the current feeling and the feeling he has managed. As for... we want the Sareb to have the cessation of use, not the cessation of dominance, which means ownership on the part of the joints and the autonomous communities of this stock; it does not cease to be. That's true, he agreed; I think even for a much larger amount than you said, that he thinks it was around fifteen thousand, but I'm not going to go into this argument, because if you give up your two thousand habitats for good, it sounds fantastic, because what we want is to expand this stock to twenty thousand or twenty-five thousand. But there's also something else that's said and that's not right. He says we're in agreement with the confiscation of the joint surplus. I think it cost him... he didn't follow the pressure, because if he didn't know that all the Republican assemblies said they wouldn't give in to any of their surpluses to this confiscation promoted by the state government. He also sees us here saying that this is a smokescreen for housing policies. We are making many initiatives in this Parliament, but understand me, I don't know the territorial adviser, I know a deputy. And what we're carrying here is a parliamentary initiative. You may be surprised that a parliamentary group is doing this kind of work, but if we want to change the rules of the Sareb, because we believe that this is a good thing, and we want to find exceptional to Montoro law, as neither Congressman nor Congressman can bring about this change, nor can my group be a majority in Congress, nor can I change this law. In the background, we may choose a way, that from its point of view should be more reasonable, to modify this law of Montoro because the assemblies can make a easier use of this surplus. Basically, I didn't just hear if in the end you..., in the background, you didn't get in on yourself, and you wouldn't even agree that the Sareb actually gave in, by regulation – by obligation, not by a voluntary agreement –, this 30_per_cent of the bag. A 30_per_cent or other percentages, but a much higher percentage than it is now, as in the domain. That is to say, ownership of the public administrations to open and create this housing bag, which many times we have spoken here that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. The groups and subgroups will then intervene to determine their position. And in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.206.0	Very briefly for contradictions – very briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.207.0	Forward. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.208.0	No, tell Mr. Rodriguez there's a difference between real estate and housing. Indeed, immobile the Sareb of the order of twenty-i-sis_mil; habitations, the deut_mil that I have said to him. Information, obviously, also from the web.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.209.0	Thank you. Mr. Gragera, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.210.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good afternoon to all. We face the second debate in the afternoon and both have the right to housing, to guarantee decent housing, as the basis of the debate. But he wanted to make a preview, because, among his disrespect, the deputy of the Republican Left has also launched a fallacy saying that we should feel fortunate to have debates in this Parliament on the right to housing, something that does not happen in the Congress of Deputies, ignoring precisely that all the laws that guarantee the right to decent housing emanate precisely from the Congress of Deputies. Ignoring probably also that you have a parliamentary group there. And if, instead of taking printers out, there were these kinds of initiatives, they could probably have those debates that you miss so much. Focusing on the proposal already, you are presenting today an amendment which aims to call for the regulation of certain aspects, as we have said, relating to housing – in particular with the Sareb – and also to make the spending restrictions of public administrations more flexible so that they can make investments in housing precisely. A proposal that, as it is drafted, creates quite a few doubts and, to be honest, if this were a final vote, we would not support it. But taking into account and knowing the procedure that will lead us to a stage of amendments, and going to the bottom of the matter, we are not going to hinder the debate, nor are we going to hinder the subsequent processing. That is why we have not tabled any amendments in their entirety. Because we believe that the problem of housing is indeed a problem for all Catalans, think what they think or vote for. We share with you the diagnosis you make; we share that you have to find a solution, but the solution you bring us do not share it to the hundred_per_centine – and I hope you do not call me coward, as you have done to other colleagues, or question my training for having a different political position than you have, in a lack of respect that we have rarely seen in this chamber. We believe we have to work to see what can be done with these assets that the Sareb has, but the writing you do seems more like a call to expropriation. It was said by the Member who intervened earlier, there are already collaborations to give a social use to many of these properties; it is already there... And we believe that this is the line. Armor this and make it more effective. Clarifying this aspect and waiting for us to have a deeper debate..., you have said earlier: the skills in housing, you have many here. Let's talk about what the Generalitat of Catalonia does, what you're doing. Because you seem to be obviating that, having the competence, in recent years, your promotion of public housing has been virtually non-existent. If we look at the budgets you dedicate more – guess – to TV3 than to promoting public housing. Catalonia is one of the communities that has the lowest percentage of its budget allocated to housing policies, well below the average of all state communities. And we also see how recently..., you have come here to do a master's degree, to teach us a lesson, you were the world champion of social policies, because you know that you are part of the government that has cut most in social policies in recent years, according to the latest data. This information is dated August 31st of this year. On the other hand, when you have brought some proposal to this chamber, it is almost better that you had not brought it, because we have seen that your solutions are a completely abusive intervention of the rental market or, as we have seen in other motions, whitewashing the occupation, promoting registration and rights to people who are occupying. You also know that, if you are so concerned about the housing emergency, the problem of occupation also directly affects public housing. In many cases the occupations are produced and have a source of housing emergency, and that reflects the failure of their housing policies – know that Catalonia is in the ranking of occupations also at the state level – and in cases that have a criminal origin, which there are, is the failure of their security policies. They have said earlier, the right to decent housing that we believe and that we defend and defend always can never go to the detriment of the right to private property, and as an administration we have to ensure that we defend both rights. Because it's embarrassing, in Catalonia we've had to see how people who are occupying a home prefer to get housing rights to honest people who are legitimately waiting on the social lists of an administration council. And today that we are talking about the Sareb, you also know that many of the properties of the Sareb, many of these transfers that have occurred in the municipalities, are occupied, and cannot be made available to social services precisely because they are occupied. So today that you are urging Congress, I am going to ask you to insist..., to speak with your groups to pass the law that we have presented from Citizens to express to the Okupas, because the truth that we are tired of dealing with real estate of people who have paid for it with their effort and with their work. In another order of things, you also address in the initial text the reform of the LRSAL and make a proposal that I recognize to you is interesting if we start, as you said before, from the Montoro law, from the current legislation that there is, that these destinations can categorize the investment in housing as financially sustainable investment in order to be able to allocate the surpluses to this. But I think it has been somewhat out of date, not for you, because you were referring to the current legislation, but it is that now the current government of the nation does not impose limitations, now the current government of the nation directly what it asks is to intervene the savings of the municipalities. In the face of the complicit silence of the members of the PSOE and the party of Podemos, who here brought motions and complained about the Montoro law, and now that these savings are directly involved, they do not raise their voice clearly for partisan interests. And here on the issue of local funding and non-compliance we can also address you quite a bit. I always say, you always talk about the fiscal deficit, but if we look at the biggest fiscal deficit in Catalonia it has been between the Generalitat and the municipalities. You didn't pay what you had to pay, you didn't take over the skills you had to assume, and you have accumulated debts that have forced the municipalities to go to the financial markets. With which, you insist a lot, but first I think you would have to do a diligent management here. Finally, if you look at it, we wanted to focus the debate on the problem, a problem that we can share by running away from ideologies, mantras, good and bad, of..., by running away from pointing out also, to say that it is the fault of the banks, even with the title of this proposal: « social return from the bank rescue, and I believe that living in a situation like the one we are living in, in which it will certainly touch to inject economic aid to many sectors, is not the most appropriate way to deal with these debates in this way. And you are being told by a Member who is part of a formation that, unlike you, had absolutely no one sitting on the boards of directors of savings banks – unlike you, we had no one sitting on the boards of directors of savings banks. I think it would be good, from experience, to focus on finding solutions, to run away from mantras, from conflicts, from references, because this reminds me quite a lot of those who said..., some who self-proclaimed themselves Messiahs and spiritual leaders of the 15-M, and that when they have arrived at the administrations, when they have arrived at the government of the nation, we have seen that they have done absolutely nothing. Or that they have ruled in Madrid and Barcelona, and on a social and housing level these cities are worse than they were before the passage of these populist governments. In the end the only social interest they had was to place some of their leaders in the administrations, plugged into the ministries, and the only housing emergency they have solved is that of a man who now has a cottage in Galapagar, because of the social urgency of the population few have been concerned. As I say to you, conclusion: let us flee from these speeches, let us flee from these formulas that have not worked, let us flee from populism, let us flee from confrontations, let us flee from criminalization and let us seek solutions. We will deal with this proposal which you bring, which makes quite sense, we will give..., as we have said, we will pass on the proposal, we will address the problem from there, and we will work to focus it on a solution that is feasible, that does not grant the legal uncertainty granted by the text that you have presented today. And look, I... I don't have much left, but I wasn't going to go without telling you: you talk about the social rescue, about all the public money that would go to the banks, because to see when we make the social rescue of all the money that you waste and embezzle. Let's see when we make the social rescue of those chiringuitos, of those duplicate structures, of those processists, because I assure you that it has absolutely no social return. And I'm afraid that rescue will come only when we are able, as I always say, to change his government. Thank you very much, and we will continue to discuss the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.211.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.212.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, today Esquerra Republicana presents to us a proposal of law that they intend to put on the table one – one – of the many answers that we can find to improve access to housing. After the debate – intense debate – that we have had in the previous point, I think I am not saying anything new if I say, therefore, that access to housing is one of the main problems that we have in Catalonia, and that this one has made exponentially worse with the crisis caused by Covid-19. High prices, both from the purchase as well as from the logger; the lack of housing of the logger; the efforts and difficulties that many families have to deal with the renders of the logger or mortgages are only some of the problems that we find and that claim that the right to housing goes far enough from being a right, at least in Catalonia. Miri, Mr. Rodríguez, the competition in housing in Catalonia is of the Generality. It's from the generality. Therefore, it is the Generalita who is looking to give answers to the problems we have. That's why you have the skills and that's why you have the resources. This morning he gave her his wallet, Esquerra's wallet, Mrs. Caula, which Catalonia suffers from a fiscal burden, which needs more resources..., always as the excuse – always as the excuse – to say that we don't do things. Because he was just talking about Salut, when a few weeks ago they arrived, between one thing and the other, almost 3,000_million euros, or they will arrive 3,200_million euros, to deal with the pandemic crisis, more than 2,000 for Salut. I mean, there's resources. The other is how we manage this resource. Now, what else are we missing? I agree. Of course they don't. But, listen, I want to say some things to you, I want to remind you of some things. You could have done – and I'm talking about Republican Esquerra, who is presenting the bill's proposal – a more courageous tax reform than you have planned late and discreetly this 2020. And I say this because, since the September of 2012, it was when Junqueras signed an agreement with Convergence and Union, so look if it's time, eight years ago, that you're covering Catalonia. And, therefore, they could have carried out a tax reform that had brought more resources to Catalonia. On the finance model, which was also speaking today with his wallet, I want to tell him that Vice President Junqueras did not go to meetings where he was talking about the finance system, because you were already in another way. I told Vice President Junqueras that, well... that he didn't want to go to meetings. In fact, we did not send an expert to technical meetings in order to evaluate and update and analyse the current financing system, which ended in 2012. Clearly, what cannot be – and to me, to us, seems dishonest – is to criticize one thing when one is just doing the counter or simply left that way. And I'm saying, more than that, because Republican Left, in this chamber, has voted quite a few times against a new funding system. I mean, a little bit like the hortelan dog: neither eat nor let it eat. I mean, don't let it get up to date or they don't do anything because it gets up to date and improves the financing system, but, for another band, ask. Home, therefore, or one thing or another. I'm the third. I said tax reform; I say financing system, that we could get more resources, and third: state assumptions. In 2019 the Government of the State presented assumptions, which, among other things, incorporated more than 2,200_million euros of investments for Catalonia, and Republican Esquerra was the abandoned to present the issue to the totality, which led to those assumptions being not debated without. So more resources lost. Therefore, yes, we have lost opportunities to count with more resources, and consciously, yes, and on behalf of the Republican Left, I think that is also worth making clear. And I think Esquerra should clarify his position or his path, if it's the possibility and pragmatism, if it's to get things for the Catalans, or if it's the frontist way. Because sometimes a doubt, much so that you say one thing, whether you really are in one place or another. So I think you should think about it in part, and I'm saying it because the words often take the wind away, and the facts are the ones that often mark the priorities and objectives of a political group. And I'm saying that because you're on the side of Juntas for Catalonia, with this sectional party remodeling that President Tora has done, or you're on the side of the Catalan right with the details that have been done all these years. Today, a study on per capita spending, total spending on social investment in Health and Education, and in Health as well as social services, we are at home in the autonomous communities, we are the most detailed. I will give you the figures: in social expenses, between 2019 and 2018, minus 19,9_per_cent; in Salut, minus 27_per_cent– after things go as they go –, and in Education, a 12_per_cent. That's to say, of course, so, I don't know, you will say that we... – he has told us so many things – that we are cowards, we are very few progressives. So, miri, little progressive is to rule with the Catalan right, which retails since 2009 in education, health and social services. This is being with the Catalan right and this is what you are doing here today. Now, on this bill of law, what do you say? Home, recognize that housing is a problem. Welcome. I'm telling you, they've been in government for eight years. And he's offering us a possible answer. Well, so what we say: it's a possible answer, it may be interesting, so let's discuss it. That's why we haven't presented the whole thing. That's why nobody introduced him– in fact, the PP had just removed him. And we think it's interesting that we can do a quiet debate, it'll be, as a matter of fact, that we can listen to experts, and see if we can improve the text that you present today and that we, at all, have just not liked. But it's interesting that I have to. In fact, the debate that did not take place in the previous point. You're funny, aren't you? Left Republican here brings us a debate to do in a normalized way, in ponència, with a legislative process like that which needs a topic as important as housing, said my company, Congresswoman Ibarra, in the previous point and, in the previous point, runs that I catch you, runs that I catch you, without debate, without being able to talk in a quiet way about a topic, as if actually what we have approved in the previous point solved all the problems of housing. So good. But no... but it won't be like that. And, I repeat, it is good that I bring this debate here, but I remember it: you govern the Generality, which has the skills and resources, 46,000_million euros, around 30,000_million euros in expenditure that will not be financed. Who hasn't prioritized housing policies in the past few years are you, and Republican Left too, that many times, when they don't care, they don't forget. Miri, do you know when the expenditure on housing between 2010 and 2017 has fallen? A 43_per_cent, it'll fall. Do you know when the expenditure on housing for the 2010 to 2017 joints has increased? It's increased by 82_per_cent. Put down a 43, push a 82 in the joints. Here, those to whom we always centrifugal responsibility, when the competitions are theirs. Miri, according to the report on the housing sector in Catalonia of the year 2019 – I have not invented anything else– knows how many housing promotions with official protection the Incasòl has done? In 2018, eight. To 2019, twenty-two. 0.6 and 1.2_percent of the total. Do you know how many meetings have taken place in 2018? 664. Do you know how many 2019? 645. 47,6_per_cent and 33,2_per_cent of the total, no competition and no resources. Now you'll tell me it's not a matter of political will. Hey. It is a matter of political will, and you, in all these years, have not put resources to the premise to deal with housing problems. And then they come to save their face with proposals and a law – which they approved a while ago – that will generate legal uncertainty, which creates uncertainty. Listen to me, who governs approve of things that are already, and we could almost say, "insecure from the legal point of view? And besides, I have here the Counsellor of Justice, who would have given us certainties and security. After the stranger to you that Bankia changed his to València, and now vice president Aragones asks him to come back. Home, but if it's been three years that they almost put a red star on it because they're leaving: "Well, it's nothing, that they're leaving, that they're leaving, and they'll be back when they're around. Listen to me, will they be back when they're around? So we've lost a social base and probably the ability to infuse it now into one of the most important bank mergers that's going to happen. So, look, when a government generates legal insecurity and political instability, these things happen. Let's hope that the one you approved of didn't make us as heavy as, for example, did cause us this fusion that we won't have..., we won't be able to say either ace or beast. But, well, some of the things they propose may be fine. Now I'm going to repeat a little bit of what Congressman Rodriguez, Mr Santi Rodríguez, said, because it's true that this 30-per-cent proposal from Sareb given to autonomous communities, which I mean in Catalonia, is in some way already being made. In a cautious and discreet way, is he doing the Sareb? Yeah. And it is true that there are many agreements signed with different joints: 220 with Santa Coloma, 15 with Vilafranca, 6 with Sant Joan les Fonts, 58 with Calafell... That is to say, they have signed agreement, the Sareb has already given floors to the municipality because these management and destiny to the social sphere. Now you say: « 30_per_cent and to the Generality. Well, then we'll talk about it in ponies, and we'll see about it, won't we? - We'll see about that. Well, don't say the Generalitat, no, "those who are competent, competent is the Generalitat. Anyway, let's talk about it, let's talk about it because we think that maybe you don't have any credentials to do this right now, but we'd also like to see how you're going to manage it and how you're going to plant it, right? And, therefore, well, it is a proposal of the many that there are, but I want to remind them, therefore, that who should make the efforts is the Generality. You now ask Sareb to make an effort or to present or put forward a proposal, to us it seems good, that we actually have to ask for responsibilities and we have to demand answers to all governments that have something to say, and also to that of the State. They'll always find us here. Now, they don't put their heads under the wing, they don't generate more legal insecurity, they don't get their responsibilities, which are: to rule, and in this case, to put resources into housing. And if they didn't, it was on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.213.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There is the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.214.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, when millions of people were living in one of the worst economic and social crises of the past decades, the State rescued the banks. When 2012_millions of people didn't have a job and hundreds of families were homeless every day, families to whom the government – with tax incentives–, banks and communication media had convinced that if you don't have a private property – that we already talked about it before – so, you're nothing, that logging was about lynching money, especially because the caterers were already starting to be so expensive that at the end of the day it was "for that, it pays a mortgage, if you'll pay less and at least you'll have your home." Millions of families, thousands of families, who fell into the hands of the banks, came to them with mortgages that they couldn't afford, without doing an economic viability analysis to ensure that those families could afford it. And the crisis came, the failure came, the real estate bubble burst, and thousands and thousands of families saw it on the street so they couldn't afford this mortgage. And they lost their homes, and they often went into debt, even more so, with the banks that had come to these fraudulent mortgages. Thousands of families without home and no work, thousands of homes without people and thousands of... people without home. When the hard impact on the economy of the families of the real estate bubble, the fraudulent mortgages and the galloping speculation, and the model of the totxana and the debt, what the People's Party government did was rescue the banks, not the people, not the people in the street, and, in any case, we speed up the law of denominations – with the support of Junts for Catalonia, certainly – because those people can do it as best they can. Thousands of empty floors. 2008..., between 2008 and 2012 415,117 mortgage enforcement procedures were initiated throughout the State. In Catalonia, between 2008 and 14, 115,000 mortgage execution procedures. Let's say it again, and I'll repeat it again, thousands of homeless families with a lifetime debt. We're going to see one of the most powerful social movements and organizations in the Spanish state today, such as the Mortgage Affected Platform, that in battles against banking entities, against governments, have managed to save money and save thousands and thousands of families from this crisis. And that's how the social organizations did it. That was not done by the People's Party government, and that, not much less, was done by the banks; the banks, which were rescued for more than 60,000_million euros. What the People's Party did was, therefore, to invent, yes, this Company of Asset Management from the Bank Restructuring, the famous Sareb, which in the end was nothing more than a new instrument to absorb with public resources the toxins of the banks, where the banks had built and could not be sold or what they had recovered through mortgage execution processes and that they could not turn into benefits. Thousands and thousands of floors of the Sareb and that remain empty after two years. What's the point of stopping together? Yeah, there's lunches. The Sareb is allowed the luxury of yielding some floors to some joints to see that it fulfills at least some function of returning from the bank rescue, but it is not so, the Sareb alone and with the force of will will not make this paper. That is why we are grateful that this initiative is present and that we can actually start a parliamentary debate to recover part of those resources from the bank bailout. Clearly, the People's Party has presented a message to the totality, faithful to its principles: save the banks, save the big businesses, retaliate right, privatize public servants. I mean, she's totally ejected... now she's retired, which is a bit of a blowout, isn't it? He has already tried to explain to the Member of the People's Party, I don't know if he's gone very well, because the rest of us understand why they did this strange move, but go on, we insist, we believe that the debate is necessary, that it is a good initiative that can come out of the Parliament of Catalonia at the Congress of Deputies. In fact, we celebrate that the Republican Group recognizes this way of incidence in state legislation, right? , which has the Parliament of Catalonia to be able to bring fears to the Congress of the State. We will participate in the debate and one of our papers will be to make sure that you feel the representative of the social organizations and movements that carry years denouncing this bank rescue and the impact that it has had on the right to housing, so that you may not repeat these mistakes that have had such a heavy cost. That is why it would be useful to do this exercise to know that the representatives we are here, Members and Members, we are listening to the organized people, the citizenry that carries many years defending the right to housing, and that, in fact, what they actually demand is that there are 100_percent of the habitats of the Sareb that are available to social housing. We will insist on this line, we believe that the proposal made by Esquerra Republicana is a proposal that is good, but that is short, we believe that we must move forward, that we cannot stand in the way of what the Platform of Affects for Mortgage calls for, that launched the campaign "Sareb is ours, precisely to denounce the business that is done with these cases of mortgage execution, empty, hoping to get new gains, while thousands of families did not have access to housing. In fact, from there some 23,200 empty habitats of the Sareb were located throughout the Spanish territory. Therefore, we believe that we need to go much further, that from here we need to be ambitious and that what we need to do is to collect what is this position of social organizations. I think it's worth it that, as we do a debate on this law and we'll have appearances, we can feel these organizations and we can ask them, and that they ask us about how they think it should finally be the demand that I put forward this law proposal. We also have to say that it is curious, that sometimes parliamentary times are what they are – to have this debate just the week in which – a debate that brings us Republican Left – we know that Councillor Calvet, although he has undertaken not to do so, will pose and advance money from the Incasòl, an 80_percent of the 120_million euros, which does not fail to pose public money to the service, again, of private interests. It's a very contradictory hair right now. Because, for one band, we're talking about the bank rescue for the bank bailout that was made a few years ago, and now we're putting back money, more and more, that would go to CaixaBank, because CaixaBank does business with Barcelona World and with the Generalitat d'avaladora and provider with public resources. It's a contradictory little thing, too. We also seem to have to talk a little bit about how this proposal for law interferes with the fact that it is to be done... for example, they stop this announcement of the possible merger of Bankia and CaixaBank, which we are very concerned about. We are very concerned that what the vice-president actually has is a demand for the Bankia exit State; that it comes out of Bankia now, with the amount of money it has cost us, without ensuring that there is a public presence in order to ensure that, effectively, the bank rescue is returned, it seems that it is not the best solution at the moment. It was EUR 24,000_million that the State invested in Bankia. We believe that for these 24,000_million, it is worth working on and not leaving Bankia in the hands of CaixaBank and losing all these resources overnight. Also, the proposal, this proposal to amend the Law of Presupposition and Sustainability will finance. It's a theme that's, plus, absolutely in place right now. It's a theme that's fundamental to municipalism. We have already expressed, from our municipalist spaces, from our mayors and mayors, that we believe that, effectively, the municipalities must have support and that they must be able to spend their surplus and their Romans on social spending, and more at the moment of emergence that we live. We have also said: we do not like it – we do not like it from the municipal world – which is the proposal that is being made from the government, from Minister Montero, and, in this sense, we have positioned ourselves several times and we believe that it is to be done and that this proposal is to be greatly improved. But what we believe is that, indeed, what is to be done is, once and for all, to reform this presuppositionary law, which was done in the middle of austerity, which was done by the People's Party with the support of some other parties that are still in Congress and that we believe... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, encloint-hi Convergence, exactly. But what's more, now they're also surprised that it's the same People's Party that says that this law no longer works, that we better bring it. I mean, we think we have most of it now maybe more round so that, once and for all, we can be that law. And let's wait, and from here on, we place all the parties that we have representation in the Congress, which is a priority of this legislature. We, as we say, will participate in this debate. We think there's a lot to do, there's a lot to work on, it's going to be an interesting debate and, in this sense, we're going to put ourselves in the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms.Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.216.0	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I don't know if I've just heard this bill that presents us Republican Left. It seems to me that the government in which you are, of which you are a part, decided to lend 96 million euros to Criteria, the hosting of CaixaBank, to speculate with only, with only public. I mean, we didn't just hear the reason why your policies are so contradictory. And, therefore, we have begun to read this proposal, so carefully, to see exactly what the purpose of its presentation is. Now it's legal, isn't it? , again how it was created the Sareb and with what reason it was created the Sareb. And it said that Sareb is created to absorb all the toxins of nationalized banks, bailouts with public money, and those that were in restructuring process. And so, let's see what a toxic act it is. So at that time, for example, a toxic act was that "the Box gave a mortgage to two people who went to ask for a 50_metre_square pea in a barri, for example, in a barri de Terrassa, in the barri de Ca n'Aurell, for a value of 300,000_euros. What's going on? That up a moment in which, of course, it's a barbarity to be paying 300,000_euros for a 50_metre_squares pea to Ca n'Aurell. And, plus, the subs start to go down. And so these people can't afford their house. And the bank is left with a house and some money it has lent, which is 300,000 euros, which it cannot recover. And then what do we do? So that's all that's going on. Just like we do with that person who got him out of the house, right? That the person who was made out of the house was given the money because I could pay the mortgage, right? So with the benches... so we did do this. We said to them: "Tea, the money. And, look, that didn't work out for you, this deal didn't work out for you, so get out of hand. I've already got these, haven't I? , with these toxic acts. And then it's a... at that time, the social object of the Sareb is established. And the social object of the Sareb, at that time, was that it was necessary to maximize the achievement of benefits, in order to be able to make something of that public money that had been put in place to disburse the financial sector – as always, the private sector – from the decisions that had been taken at a certain time. So much good to be irresponsible... because the least responsible were the people who came to buy a piss, which is a good catch, that is, a good of first need. Why do I have to go buy a piss to live, right? That's something you need. What's not needed is to lend 300,000_euros to someone because it's buying a 50_metres_square pea to get or want to get interested. That wasn't necessary. But, in change, the State decides that, well, in this case, it disclaims the entities. And, therefore, if they are to return the money of the FROB, so that this is the case, come these toxic acts that at one time were bought, or that at that time they had the value of the price that had placed it in that loan. And, therefore, at that time the social object is established. Ara Esquerra Republicana proposes to us that we modify the social object of the Sareb, and says literally..., says: "A mandate of the General Assembly of the Sareb is established so that... And how will you set up a mandate to the Sareb General Council, if 55_per_cent is private? Because, of course, they just went to control this instrument, too, because it's not even a bank. Yes, they can ask, but they don't have the majority in the state. And, therefore, the intention is good, but I don't think I get more than that. And they also ask that it be incorporated into the judicial rule of Sareb to develop a prediction that in its statutes I ordered the cessation of domain of up to 30 per cent of its immovables. What are they saying to the Sareb General Council that they are the ones who set up a legal regime of their own because they give way to immovables? They'll have to. I mean, they won't give up. They won't give up, because you're the ones doing it tomorrow. They must be forced to give in to this money. That's to say, what can't be is that the bank has been rescued and that now this money is given for lost. Now what's going to happen, playing "CaixaBank trillery," when it merges with Bankia, the €20,000_million that Bankia hasn't returned yet, what? Is that to say, is it going to give permission for this merger without the $20,000-million-public return being made? What are we going to give him to CaixaBank, this money? Why? That you give the money to the people who don't charge the ERTOs? Why does your government provide you with money to Criteria, the hosting of the Box? Which, moreover, were the first to make a structure similar to that which was made with the Sareb. They did it with the Criteria, with the Sub-know-what-do, or something like that. That's to say, they started doing a very similar company engineering to that of the Sareb. And now they're going to have these 20,000_million euros, too? And while you're at it, you're at it. Hostia, maybe if anyone said they would leave 96 million euros to buy some land so they could make a deal, then maybe another would think so too. It's just... I don't want to make any accusations, but it seems to me more prevarication than making a referendum campaign. But we have already said that what is unconstitutional in this country has not been linked to what is really just or not just, but it has been linked to whether or not it responds to the interests of certain people. After you also talk about the modification of the Presuppositional Enabling Law, right? "Change the expense rule so that it does not apply to local corporations that have healthy accounts. Amend the expenditure rule. But don't they see that everyone says that the rule of spending now, today, doesn't have any kind of meaning? , which does not have to apply the expenditure rule. And, plus, you can only do those joints that have a debt level below 75_percent of current entries. Listen, are there people who don't have a home, are there people who don't have covered basics, and are you talking about the expense rule? Well, in case anyone doesn't know, the rule of spending is that we first have to put in front of the bank interests – which, of course, banks have to charge on time – to cover people's rights. And, therefore, it's as if the house decided to amortize the mortgage before filling the fridge. So you don't really feel it, unless there's someone behind the mortgage that has a lot of influence and a lot of contact with the public administration. And the other is the storm and retraction right. The right of storm and retraction, the truth is that for the gatherings it is a odyssey. If the right of storm and retraction has not been used, as the statement of reasons for this proposition of law, is for something, it is because the assemblies have to be shipped by dispatch; if it is a building, door by door. On the other hand, a third-sector entity that wants to negotiate with the right to housing can buy the right building for the right of storm and retreat. So maybe they change the mechanism of being able to exercise the right of storm and retraction, that maybe that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.217.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.218.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Last week we had a headline who told us « CashaBank and Bankia is merged. And these were the headlines, and surely someone might think that, out of these headlines, today we are talking precisely about this proposed reform of the law that the Republican Group has introduced, but that's not it, just that I was already in, let's say, for a long time in the Register. We are here today to discuss, for debate, the social return of the bank rescue. If we take a look back, the Spanish Government, as Congressman Rodriguez defended, President Rajoy ended up with a bank bailout worth EUR 66,000_million, the equivalent of more than four years of fiscal deficit. From these, 24,000_millions went directly to rescue Bankia and from which it was estimated to recover some 9,660, according to a note from the Bank of Spain of November 2018. We don't really know how many have recovered. No one knows. What we do know about certain..., and we have doubts from the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group about what viability will have this proposal that we are debating here today. And we wanted to transfer it, too, to the companies of the Republic Group. Do you think this bill will be made available in Madrid? Do you believe that "the most progressive government in history will do anything to recover the 65,000_millions that Rajoy's Spanish government donated to the banks? Do you think so? We have doubts. And how did the Member of Parliament Romero refer to the housing skills of the Generalitat de Catalunya..., yes, yes, the Generalitat de Catalunya has housing skills, but at this time, in this debate, we are talking about the bailout. I think they're compatible with both things. Therefore, we believe a little that this law is a mirage. It's a prospect because we don't know who's going to go back to Madrid, but we do agree, because we think that everyone in Catalonia is critical of this bank bailout that was made at the bank. And why do we support this proposition of the law? So basically because we understand that people are up on the independence road because they're useful and because they're defending their interests. Basically, this law has three ends. The first, the social return, and it is a modification of the statues of the Sareb, which establish as object the cessation of the domain – if it is true that article 1 should have just been delimited, because it is not written. Article 2 refers to the modification of the Organic Law of Presupposition, the Law of Finance Corporation, the Law of Presuppositions of 2018, and facilitates the exercise of the right of Aunty and Retraction, which we agree, so that the sub-lot of real estate of persons who have not been able to pay the mortgage can be exercised on behalf of the joint ventures. And this is a third point that also seems to us..., we are in favour, but it is also controversial. Says: "The use of the surplus of local corporations for mobilization and social use in mortgage enforcement processes. We share the objective. Now, many of the people who will vote and we will process this law here in Parliament to send it to Madrid are the same people who are part of the Spanish government and who have made their own friends in the assemblies. Therefore, here we see a lack of coherence: to vote yes to the surplus of habitat to make it serve on the part of the assemblies – the Romans of surplus of habitats – and, for another band, to re-centralize the Romans to Madrid. I think it is incompatible, on the part of some parliamentary groups, to vote on this. But we share the objectives of this law. In fact, globalisation and the pandemic have led to a lot of acceleration in our society and also our backs as a country. And, frankly, in the interventions, I missed this point. That is to say, banking policy is a challenge that we have to present and to the future in our country. We need to be protagonists. And on this line I'd like to get back an idea that counsel Tremosa had warned that the State was to leave Bankia and that the properties in possession were to be made available, to make more public habitation. And we repeat: Catalonia must become a protagonist in the European political banking map, it must return to its roots, it must re-lead this transformation of the country with the outbreak of the pandemic also in the banking arena. We've just had a cashier's system stalled in the territory at a remote bank oligopolie from Madrid. This lack of competition is particularly critical in Catalonia, and I remember that while the European Union recommends encouraging competition and avoiding monopolies, in the Spanish State, as in all camps, it is in the opposite direction, because they have already endorsed this merger, they have already endorsed it. Therefore, we cannot share this bank involvement. Moreover, if we compare ourselves to reports of what the evolution is, and compare ourselves to the different countries of the European Union... but, for example, we focus on Germany, we see how Germany has indeed been able to evolve, avoiding oligopolises and centralization of the banks. And this is the difference, surely, between Catalonia and Spain. And it is that Spain defend great banks and we do not defend great banks, what we want is that there is competition, decentralisation and proximity. And more than that, on this merger, which asked us, yesterday President Pedro Sánchez claimed that the merger between CaixaBank and Bankia reinforces the territorial cohesion of Spain. So, what are we talking about? Economics or politics? Of competitions or oligopolis? Support for the peppers and the productive economy or the economic elites of Madrid? Proximity and land-rearing or re-centralisation? We defend basically, therefore, this competitive economy, supporting the productive economy, the peppers and, above all, the territory and this digitalization process that is accelerating, because in the background that passes with the merger of CaixaBank and Bankia is that the Catalans and Catalans are paying the rescue of the Madridn elites. And this with the complicity of "the most progressive government in the history of Spain", because we will see what its final position will be, but they see President Sánchez's statements yesterday that, indeed, it will be a reality. And he also remembered, preparing this intervention, like Fainé, to the Commission of 155, he said that they had conquered Spain. And I have to say that whoever conquered Catalonia and the Catalan banking system was the Spanish banking oligopoly. The level of dependence on Spain is unsustainable, at the economic, social and democratic level, and we will not see that the Spanish Government is helping Catalonia to bring us closer to the gross domestic product. This is why we propose, from Junts per Catalunya, that I reneged on a banking system behind the territories, the families, the Pime, and adapted to the world's challenges: proximity, digital, sustainable, cooperative and connected. I have no doubt that taking this measure will mean fighting against IBEX 35, against the powers of the State, the oligopolises, and promoting competition and equal opportunities for all businesses and families. And we'll follow it by doing and fighting for this model change that we see as important that Catalonia adopts. That is why the Group of the European People's Party for Catalonia will vote in favour of this proposal, and we also welcome the fact that the chairman of the Group of the European Parliament has asked for explanations, so the European Parliament respects this merger between « the Caixa..., CaixaBank and Bankia. And, despite being aware that the proposal has a short duration in Madrid, it will serve us to demonstrate, once more, that the Spanish State is designed to perpetuate the status quo of power to the detriment of the peppers, the autonomies and the families, that they are the ones to whom they should have rescued themselves. Because one of the first interventions President Torra made during the pandemic was that if it had been possible to rescue the banks, the families, people and businesses would have been rescued in this pandemic. Therefore, we will vote in favour of it, and so we will work with all the joy that is possible because this is a reality, with the skepticism that I think in Madrid they will do nothing because this bank return of the year 2012 is a reality. And we believe that the walls that can allow these oligopolises to fall, these elites, come from the hand of independence, and that's why we're giving it support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.219.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Withdrawing the emena to the totality, this proposal of law and continuing its processing. [[Asking the Government about the education emergence and the planning of the 2020-21 school year]] [[300-00291/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the education and planning of the 2020-2021 school year, presented to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. She has the word, for her presentation, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.220.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs and MPs, honourable counselor, the most complicated course of the last few years is about to begin. In fact, he has already made it to many schools in Bressol; many teachers have been in the educational centers preparing this beginning. And if all goes well, then more than a million students will be returning to the classrooms, and they will be doing so after six months of locking up centers with the exception of a few days in June, too long when children and children have been disconnected from their educational process, and, therefore, the social and educational inequalities that already exist have widened to the point that dillons will have children and children who will reach school with many words full of different experiences, new acquaintances, and, in turn, other social entities with fewer resources, which will return with empty words. Go ahead with the recognition at the joint educational community, which is leaving itself behind to plan and organize this course, despite – I say so, counselor – the changes in criteria, contradictions, scarce extraordinary resources, little inspection involvement and sometimes lack of clear instructions from your department. It's hard to understand how after so many months of locking up centers, even confinement, we're just a few days away from the schoolyard and there's still a lot of stuff in the area or it's time to get so right. We understand that there is a lack of resources, of course, but above all we think that there is a lack of proper planning. Today, counselor, I'll ask you a lot of questions. We understand that they can be shared by many families and, therefore, I will ask you if you can take note and if you can answer us, so..., if you can. In the first place, on the roads. You yourself have recognized that 30_percent of the groups will not be able to complete these early and early 20s, but we want to ask you if you know the student name that represents this 30_per_cent, practically the whole metropolis. It is to say, in another way, that I translated the xifra: how many infants will begin the course in classes of more than twenty children and primary, and what percentage represents of the conjunct of the alumni. We ask because we think that this percentage will surely be much higher. And we'd also like to know what that percentage is at the concert school, that there's been a little talk about it. In the secondary education stage, which has not been discussed as much as in primary school, we find many groups with more than thirty students. And concretely we want to ask him, so, again, how many teenagers went to high school with more than thirty students and what is the plan in these cases? You mean, we find face-to-face classes with thirty-five, thirty-two, thirty-seven students at the institute? Will they work semi-presencely and, therefore, combine attendance at the institute and study at a distance? Will every center do what it can? He asks if there are any precise instructions from the department in this sense. And I'm telling you, Counselor, why are we the first ones, aren't we? , since the PSC, that we defend the autonomy of centers, the pedagogical criteria, but this cannot become an excuse not to do the work of the department, not to issue clear criteria and with this to re-encourage further differences or inequalities between centers. There was a lot of difference between centers in the months of confinement, of school closure, and so we have to get old because it's not back to producing these structural hardships. On the other hand, precisely to guarantee these groups, many centers have made genuine juggling to award tutoring to most masters and if any of these masters take a low, then they will have many problems to maintain the criteria of stagnation, the proper functioning of the center, if these people are not replaced very quickly. And so, counselor, ask him if he has planned to change the substitution rule and, therefore, to make nominations and substitutions every day, and not as yet. Similarly, we are very concerned about the small number of choices that have had to be made in many directions and closures between completing the programs or being able to keep the specialties, they understand that it is an extraordinary school course that sees us ahead and that, therefore, the priority we understand that it must be to protect salvation, to give the maximum guarantees of safety and prevention to schools and institutes. But we are also concerned that this focus can generate a loss of educational quality, even a setback in experiences of pedagogical renewal and innovation that had taken place in the past few years, because there will be few master specialists, lack of space, surely it will be a work less cooperative... And, therefore, it seems to us that we cannot force the necessary compensating effort in the educational field that would need to be done after these six months, where a 30_per_cent of the student seems to have been totally disconnected, especially in environments of maximum complexity. This is why we would like to know which guidelines have marked the department in the pedagogical field. We have had the opportunity to speak with many directions and we do not know any instructions about the curriculum. I do not know if, therefore, from the Directorate General of Curriculum are working in some document to highlight who are the key competences to achieve at each level or if they left it again to criteria of each centre, because, as I said before, centre autonomy cannot be an excuse not to decide on things that are very important, that can generate new inequalities. And, therefore, it is interesting that these instructions on contents, on curriculum should be completed. For what you do to teacher contracts, surely you will talk about it in the reply. I think it must also be honest, it has to be recognized that additional contracts have also not been to give response to the Covid. Mostly they were provided in the assumptions to respond to the need for schooling, and that, yes, they would add a few thousand to address these overratio. But the surrogates are not a problem caused by Covid, the surrogates are a structural problem that we have been dealing with for a couple of years, especially from the details of Mrs Rigau, Artur Mas, Rajoy's PP, the precariousness of the teaching conditions..., things that have not yet been reversed with the governments that have followed. And, therefore, additional staff to deal with the situation created by the pandemic do not know how to see it. Therefore, too many questions and uncertainties a few days from the beginning of the course, unclear in the instructions and still few resources. We already knew that the approved assumptions were not enough to address the great challenges of education in Catalonia. The Covenant against Segregation, the inclusive school debò. We know that we continue to feel European regions with more school segregation, that we have an early school drop-out rate over not only the European middle school, but also the Spanish middle school. That we take these details and infra-financing from many years ago, but, in any case, the situation generated by the Covid, with all the sacrifices that it has forced us to make, could also represent an opportunity to refer the interlocution with the conjunction of the educational community, to agree priorities at a time that is exceptional, to plan with time what to do in different possible scenes. And that's what we understand hasn't happened. So far we've seen a plan with lack of face education that we've been defending. We understand that we have to work for this face-to-face education, but neither do we have a B plate. What happens in quarantine episodes? That they are likely to continue, many, intermittent, in cases of new confinement. For a student with a feeding scholarship during the course, what is the number B when you have to make a forty-year to ensure food sufficiency? Are families supposed to go to school to pick up their babies? Are the monitors and monitors contracted for the food business to be converted to home delivery machines? We don't see it clearly, and we don't see it viable, Counselor. On the other hand: do they have the information material, the connectivity, the training to do for them? Is it gonna be October? Should we wait a quarter? We'd love to see the calendar they've announced. To know whether it will only cover from ESO third or how many students are expected to cover in previous levels and even whether it will require a co-sponsorship or not. And just so you know, we don't know what happened to the computers that finally arrived. If they are in possession of the families, if they have returned to the centers or what has to happen. We're asking because we don't want to go back to the same situation where thousands of infants were disconnected and teachers were overwhelmed by the difficulty of using certain platforms and systems. On the other hand, have disconnected centres that didn't have fiber during confinement solved this problem? In other words, will the digital republic provide at least the necessary infrastructure and connections to the conjunct of the territory? And another couple more questions: do all the teachers in Catalonia have the necessary digital skills at these times? Or why didn't he take advantage of the month of July to strengthen and provide further training to the faculty especially in digital training? We're talking about a lack of planning. How can it be that after six months is called to the centers to a formation expressed in the management of the Covid, less than a week from starting the course and, in some cases, is hung the platform, how it went, so that many would start the course without this formation. Things we understand haven't done so well. And something else we haven't just heard: why hasn't he come from this formation on the Covid-19 at school in Bressol, at school in adults, at school in music? It's a question of public salvation. And I take this opportunity to say that we have been missing a lot of follow-up and clear instruction in the subject of bressol schools. It looks like I'm leaving them again. Finally, it seems that the protection material begins to reach the centers. We wanted to know if it will reach both the public and the concert and if they have any specific reinforcements of masks, for example, in centres of maximum complexity or for the most vulnerable student a time known the expense that this supposes. In short, counselor, from the PSC we do not want to contribute to generating mistrust or alarmism. We also want to contribute to this commitment and confidence in the education system in Catalonia, but we also have the obligation to require your Government to remain vigilant in the completion of the health protocols, to provide the necessary resources to make this safe, to accompany and not leave the directions alone, to strengthen coordination with the local world, to strengthen the dialogue with the sector, and above all to move forward with the problems that we will surely have and that end with the constant changes in criteria. That said, so it is obvious that we consider it a priority to reopen the schools, to defend a safe return to school for the whole of the educational community, because if the schools are sure we will keep them open. And, above all, I did not lose sight of the need to guarantee the right to education with equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the words of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.222.0	Thank you. President, Members and Members, I first thank him for all his intervention and fully understand the willingness to cooperate. I, quite briefly, have something with which I disagree; one, and I have to say it clearly. It's true that it's a mantra that is repeated. You're saying, improvise, change the criteria. Miri, I'll make it clear. The first instruction for the functioning of the 20-21 course, the first, we published it on June 30. And from here we have given instructions on the functioning of the course, of organization, on July 3rd, July 9th, July 30th, August 13th, and, today, the last. Why? Because the evolution of the pandemic has been different. We could have done another thing, which was to wait for us at the last moment. Miri, the Government of the State, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Territorial Policy summoned all the councillors and councillors of autonomous governments of health and education on August 28. Our first instruction was on June 30th. Do you know when he gave us the document we were supposed to discuss on the 28th, in the morning? On the 27th, eleven o'clock at night. Yes, on the 27th at eleven o'clock in the night, we got the document that we all had to discuss – ministers and advisors and advisors – the debt, to you. I don't want to complain. Why? Because I can hear it. I can hear him waiting until the last moment to make a document to see what was going on. I can hear it. And I can hear, in addition, that how they were changing things didn't give us the document until a few hours earlier. I already said that there were some aspects of the document that we wouldn't go into in depth because we were studying them. You may have accused the Minister of improvisation, if you go late, of not agreeing with the two ministries and for this reason do not get the joint document until eleven o'clock in the night. But I fully understand everyone's difficulties. All of Europe's educational authorities at these times are full of difficulties with changing realities. So, what are we aware of? What have we done? More instructions than many others, and we've published them all often before the others. But that's neither tax nor denial, it's the decision we made. We're going to start publishing them soon. We've got to go change. Today, the Procicate has approved some modifications or extensions that we have delivered to the centers, now, already, because we have to deliver them to three in the afternoon, more or less. Therefore, let us stop the improvisations and the instructions that change: they will change every week instructions; every week we will change instructions, because every week new things will pass. The worst thing that can be done in front of the pandemic is don't move, and so I want to make it clear, because this is a debate that we always go in, that it's a... well. Things he's been talking about. The first one, because this is also... it's coming out a lot and I'd like to make it clear, and maybe I'll be there a lot of time, but in any case, I'll be able to explain it: the subject of the protection material. To the public, the protective material directly freed us. At the concert, we increase operating expenses taking into account the protection material to be used. Therefore, at the concert, we do not offer it, we increase operating expenses; at the public, of which we are holders, we give it to the public. Until today, we have made a cost of 5_million_i_mig in protective material: 632,000 units of gloves; 621,000_litres of gel; 2,740 thermometers; 6,481 dispensers; 622,000 reusable masks; 883,000 surgical masks; 1,586 facial pants, and 19,060 FFP2 masks. And we're doing a few shopping. We calculate that these purchases are enough for the first quarter, and we're making a few purchases for the second quarter, but we'll have it in the first quarter to expand the plots. And we've done concrete actions. For example, and I know that Congresswoman Sierra, from Ciutadans, is interested in this part and may ask later, but how does it form part of the package I say now: we have reviewed the attention to deaf people to define what kind of protective material is appropriate for this collection and are waiting for... How the approval of this material has been made later on to purchase – we are making a purchase, now, of this material – of a mask material, let's say, transparent, that has recently been approved, that we will use for the teaching of deaf people, and that if the approval is correct and its use is satisfactory, we can also use it for professionals, for example, languages, at times of phonetic explanations. This one we don't have because it's approved now... but we're buying it and we hope to keep it right away. I mean, what's in the center? What's the docs got? Each dozen rep, it has discarded or released eight reusable masks that are certified to be able to rent twenty times; therefore, for one hundred and sixty days. That covers five months, all in the first quarter and a little bit more than the second. And each centre replenishes hygienic masks with a pack of eight units for each professional of the centre, plus a 10_per_cent for replacements; caps of surgical masks depending on the name of the community of the centre; caps of gloves depending on the community of the centre; blisters of five liters of hydroalcoholic gel depending on the community of the centre, with dispensers of hydroalcoholic gel depending on the community of the centre, and a thermometer, if not, per centre. Some of them are bigger in size than one. The special education centres and the llars are given FFP2 masks, as are the schools for the master of P3. The special education centres and the llars also receive facial pants for each professional, and have delivered more than 1,500 caps of 25 FFP2 masks to the General Directorate of Labor Risks for vulnerable personnel, in concrete terms, who have indicated the use of these masks. So, for one of the questions that you were worried about, which was the protection material, we believe that this list of protection material that I'm telling you, that I've reminded you, is enough for the first quarter. They've got it or they're getting it all the centers and we're already buying the second quarter, which they'll already have during the first and so if in some center for some circumstances we can rest, then we'll rest. Questions of interest to you, too. The Digital Pla. The digital platform that corresponds to the purchase of 300,000 devices for all the students of the public from the third of ESO, without co-opting– without co-opting–, a package of about 110,000 initial connectivity and about 75.000/80,000 devices for teaching. The international market this summer has been collapsing at the time of buying devices by governments; therefore, we have not. We already have 40,000 for teaching, we won't come back; as we don't come back or move and we don't have a stock at the moment because if we have to confine some stable group of a school that still doesn't return the material, we can act in that school with material for that stable group. At the length of the first quarter we'll have all this package I've told you, but it's coming. Now, we already have 40,000 teachers we can use. And this summer has already been working in fiber centers, and it has been working in fiber centers for the better part of the wifi network: 2,800 fiber centers, at 1,200 we have improved the wifi network and will continue to work. For many different reasons, not all of them were able to work at once, but there are centres that they already have and that are already, let's say, suitable for their installation, and centres that are suitable, and centres that are suitable, also, long this first trimester. Of the other questions you have commented, I hope to answer the reply, or I am sure that it will be questions that will also bring back some of the Members who make the inquiry later and I will be able to answer it later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.223.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs Esther Niubó has the paragraph for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.224.0	Thank you, counselor, for the answer. I understand that time is limited, I hope, therefore, that at the length of the interrogations or after they return or during this I can finish them answering; there were many more. In any case, if not, we can also submit them by writing tomorrow as soon as possible. In relation to what I was saying, right? , the lack of planning and improvisation, we understand that the sanitary and epidemiological conditions have changed and, therefore, obviously, must not be strictly rigid, but we do plant, therefore, that this adaptation is done working with various scenes. That's to say, we can have fifteen different scenes, we'll find that we'll definitely have to change scenes. And, therefore, simply tell him that we will have to follow and that we understand necessary, so work with different scenes. Therefore, we will see during the course whether the student bag is enough to address the substitutions that need to be made; if these replacements can be done quickly, in twenty-four hours – to see if I can then answer it –; if you have not just collated, this certainly does not depend on you, but the primary care system, taking into account that we will have an allusion of suspicions, and therefore it will be necessary for this to be managed; if these computers end up in the first quarter and, in any case, for the courses before the third of ESO, there will be no need for that student, or what will happen to the coach for those who have a better ticket in cases of quarantine. I'd also appreciate it if you could explain it to us. I also wanted to ask him about inclusive school support: aware that until this year, therefore, the presentation of the famous decree had not begun, we want to ask him what new developments this course will have, that is, beyond the incorporation of monitors and support staff, that we value positively, if it is to strengthen the EAPs, the special education technicians, if it is to strengthen the name of vets in the classroom, and, therefore, if there is any concrete ground also to gather that student who has suffered most from the closure of the centers. And I stress once again the importance of prioritizing the students with specific educational needs, the most vulnerable; also the special education centres cannot be the great oblivions again. And, therefore, if we defend safe schools, but open schools, it is still more important to preserve special education and the task, therefore, that makes it truly an essential service. A point about the municipal area and the efforts being made by the assemblies of all the political colors to facilitate this beginning of the course: you said in your parliament that it would be about the extra costs of clean and disinfection services, today, so we already know that this will take place. And we want to ask him why not the resources he's rejected from the State, right? , more than 440_million in education, but if we focus on their department, 360 as at least, why not transfer it or if you plan to transfer a share to the municipal world, precisely, to face this extraordinary course with more guarantees. Or why it has rejected the offer of so many city halls to provide space to drain the centers, it is because there is a lack of teachers. Other questions. We still do not understand how since the department ended up encouraging the elimination of the six-hour period in those centres of the greatest complexity that until this course had kept it when it was to be a particularly compensatory course, which, moreover, forms part of the commitments of the Pact against Segregation. How can it be? Why do they finally announce a pact, right? ... – forgive us – a plate of nine educational opportunities that is less expensive than the one we lose at this time. And, finally, how do you combine this organization of the centers during lecturing time with extracurriculars, many of which will be done in the space of the educational centers at lunchtimes or later? How are you gonna make sure that this bubble effect doesn't enslave for this band, right? If they have any protocol, I'll make it. And neither do we have news of who the department's indications are in case of exits, colonies. I don't know if this is allowed or if they have any specific protocol in case of exits or colonies? I'm done, Counselor. We at an extraordinary time like this do not ask for his resignation or disapproval, but we do want to ask him a question: do you think that if we did an inquiry to the directions of the educational community, in general, they would make a positive assessment of the government's management of this beginning of the course? We do not believe this, but, in any case, counselor, we place him in place to take all the energies, all the resources available to ensure that this school year works on the best possible conditions. We really want you to do a very good job.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.225.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply has the word Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.226.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, before I forgot, because I wanted to say it before and, let's face it, the allure of things to say is so great..., this morning I was bugging the MP who asked me from the group of common people that in the matter of ratio the numbers are very different, and there are many – and they have to see with many questions. And that we have, for example, the city of Barcelona, we have everything, but, for example, the city of Barcelona, which is one that is very often concerned, school by school, all the possibilities and why the project of that school has made a tria and the other has made another tria, because before the same number of students and teachers, there are schools that have made a tria and schools that have not made another one. And I told the honourable Member that, if they allow us, from the 15th, to be just as happy, but that we have overcome some questions, we find ourselves in his parliament or in his department with all the numbers, no problem, with all of them, analyzing it all and understanding why things are and may or may not agree with it, but asking the table... why we could almost not explain it all to what he's doing to this, huh? And so again, I said, I spoke to the honourable Member because he had asked the question and there was this question, you bring it to the question; I am now extending it to all the parliamentary groups and grouping it together, because we have no question of adding figures, but they must be heard and they must be able to explain themselves very well. Telegraphically, download: Substitutions will be daily. We're worried about one thing, in our directions and in ours, you don't lower them, that's to say, the teacher who's in trouble today, who's sick and not on condition, but he'll be able to go tomorrow, who's not going to be a low, or we'll know the money he's been able to go there. I mean, if some center organizations could cover the stable group that day, huh? That's what we're worried about, and that's what we're gonna have to work on because this is a matter that we can't solve with a replacement, because it's not a substitute. This summer they took digital courses and they went very well and they pointed out a lot of people. This study took place not only in July, but also in August, digital courses. For the extracurriculars we have published annexes to the various instructions. They're pretty explicit. There are very concrete and very specific cases of some kind of very concrete and specific thing that, if it comes down to it, we will already make an instruction, too, why are there many cases, huh? But there are also sports, sports for sports of which you are the majority. If there's an out-of-school sport that's not part of the list we've made, we'll do it. We have a Health-Education group that meets daily and daily to discuss these issues. Special education centres also have specific instructions. Today, when the Process has been approved, a concrete step has been taken, which is the topic of shared education, which finally the Process has authorized that it is done and can be done, this has been approved today. It is also recalled that the Government has approved that special education centres are from August considered essential public service centres. The President of the Generality has compromised a number of meetings of directors that if there is a total confinement of the country another time, the educational centers are designated essential services this time. And the gatherings. We have met very much with the gatherings, weekly, we thank them for their indispensable help, we serve space... On Terrassa, two schools, for example, they serve space. If not all the schools serve spaces that could be served is because often the school preferred to organize itself internally so that it did not have to serve spaces from outside, because they are not always very clean or not always of only use, but they are spaces that are on the reserve, so you say different scenes. Without the gatherings we can't do – we can't do – what we'll do. And in any case, one thing, of these 360_millions we get from the State, would be easier than the State is not left with money from the joints. You got me, huh? So we're not going into this debate. But in any case, I insist, without the gatherings we will not do what we have done. And we get together a lot often, and we keep getting together because they're functional. And from then on, in the rest of the questions, I can answer I think some of the issues that you raised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.227.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[300-00292/12]] The agenda item is an inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word for her presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.228.0	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and also thanks to Parliament's services, which adapt the speakers' rostrum every time we speak. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Go ahead that although this is an inquiry on the management of the beginning of the course by the Generalitat of Catalonia, from Citizens we consider that Minister Celaá has made a genuine abandonment of functions and has abandoned the autonomous communities to their fate. We believe in equality and believe that Rubí students have to be as safe and protected as the students of La Bañeza, because the reality is that most families do not understand why the centers of Castile and León have to follow some guidelines, and those of Catalonia others, and those of Andalusia other different ones. Because this disparity of criteria before which we find ourselves nullifies any kind of perception of scientific rigour in decision-making. Why are teachers being tested quickly or by PCR in some autonomous communities and not in others? And this would apply to each of the measures that have been taken by the different autonomous communities in the face of the inaction of the central government. Certainly in Citizens we believe that there should be a return to school and not seventeen, as we have. And it is that this concern, for the most part, I would say that the vast majority of society is in stark contrast to the carelessness of the most responsible, who are Mrs. Celaá scholastic and Mr. Castells, who have been missing for a very long time and when they finally appeared, because it was to announce measures of great calm, because as it were that the children had to be taken to school by bicycle or that the windows had to be opened and the classes aired, when what families were waiting for – and are still waiting, in fact – is what will happen in case of quarantine of their children, if they are going to have a permit to be able to care for their children. The truth is that citizens demand more planning and coordination and less occurrence and less improvisation. And in the specific case of Catalonia, the start of the course is being so chaotic that the teacher denounces the lack of concreteness and clear rules. And the teachers also complain, Mr. Counsellor, that you delegate functions with the excuse of centre autonomy. And if all this were short, they're going to go to work now with the fear that they might end up denouncing them for contagion. That is why we propose that your department assume all the legal responsibility that may arise from possible contagions in schools. And from Citizens we ask that, the same as we have done at the Junta de Andalucia, send a statement to all the directors of all the schools in which he assumes legal responsibilities and legal defense in relation to possible complaints against teachers by contagion. Counselor, are you prepared to guarantee the legal certainty of the faculty or are you going to leave them abandoned to their fate? And speaking of safety in schools, in this Parliament we have repeatedly discussed the need for nursing staff in the centres and several initiatives have been adopted in this regard, and if this was necessary before the pandemic, it is now absolutely essential. From Citizens we defend the implementation of the figure of the nurse or school nurse because it would be a benefit for both teachers and students and their families. It is a consolidated figure in countries such as the United States, Great Britain and France and is now being established in the Madrid Community. On the other hand, the WHO also supports the presence of nursing staff in the centers to collaborate in the fight against the pandemic. We believe that teaching staff should not be charged with the responsibility of coordinating the performance of health and hygiene measures. And that's why we understand that it's essential for all centers to have nursing staff. Mr. Counsellor, are you going to guarantee the presence of these professionals in the centers? And, look, I'm going to confess to you, Mr. Counsellor, that during these months I've felt a little Casandra, because it's because I was proposing things to you, you were saying no to me, but it's that in some cases you've ended up doing them, or more or less. For example, you vehemently denied to my stupefaction that the students were going to wear masks in schools, and when I was very surprised I told you that, come on, under no circumstances could you deny that possibility, you told me that schools were like the second homes of the students and that Catalan schools were as safe as the homes of the students. The truth is that this seemed to me to be a true magical thought and I am glad that for once I have listened to me, recapacitated and the students are going to wear masks and also the teachers. And the same thing happened with the quick tests. I insisted that they had to be done, like us in Andalusia, because we want Catalan schools to be as safe as Andalusian schools, and you denied that every time I proposed it to you, but in the end you are going to do PCR, so also..., they are not quick tests, they are PCR, I am glad that you have listened to me as well. And another topic I told you many times was that of children's schools and I wish... I really wish I had been wrong, but unfortunately it hasn't been so. Children's schools are being closed despite warnings. And losing a children's school means losing an educational project and it also means losing the chance that families will have a close and trusted place to leave their children, and it also means losing jobs. The truth is that it is a real disaster that in the end has ended up closing day care centers despite warnings and calls from the sector. And right now, 70_per_cent of private day care centers need a liquidity injection and are with all their hopes set in the rescue plan. Counselor, when is the plan going to take effect and whether it will be possible to extend throughout the year? And, well, you already know that I am very concerned about the subject of special education, especially the subject of the deaf, you mentioned me in your previous speech. We consider it essential that deaf students who have to read their lips have access to these transparent and approved masks. And I also remind you of the need for all deaf students to have sign language interpreters throughout the school hours. [[Pause.]] By the way, the approved transparent masks are not only essential for the deaf, but will also be very useful for students with autistic spectrum disorder, for example. And, on the other hand, what will happen to students who need physical proximity, such as those with cerebral palsy? Are you going to equip the PPE professionals? Are teachers and students going to be made regular PCRs? Because, of course, we are talking about people with very delicate health, very vulnerable people, and we need to minimize all risks. In addition, in the case of students attending special schools, you already know this, as they not only receive knowledge there, but also therapies and treatments that are essential for their well-being. So I ask you to commit yourself to being declared centers of first necessity so that they are not closed under any concept. And it is clear that in the current situation the number of contacts per person must be minimized. And for that reason in the Community of Madrid they have decided that they are in the same class twins and twins to minimize the contacts of that family. The truth is that we think it's a very good idea and we ask you if you're going to do the same here, Mr. Counsellor, because it's a way to minimize contacts within families. And another topic that should also be clarified... that I know you've spoken, but it's just that no one really understands, huh? : What will happen to teachers and vulnerable students? I'd like you to explain exactly what protective measures you're going to take. And another issue that concerns us is always that of ratios. Throughout this time we have put forward different initiatives to ensure that the law is complied with and that the ratios are not exceeded. And if it seemed to us that they were overtaken before, now in the midst of the pandemic it is unacceptable. You yourself have recognized that in 30_percent of primary groups the ratios are passed; in secondary, you have not even given us the figures. But beyond the cold statistics I will put you a real case: a primary center of Santa Coloma de Gramenet that in fifth have a group with 25 students and another with 24. But in the sixth they have one with 26 and one with 27; 27 primary students together in a classroom, in a pandemic situation, what solution will you offer them, Mr. Counsellor? Or are you going to tell them to open the windows and fix it? That, eye, it's very important to open the windows and air the classes, but it can't be the only solution, it has to give another kind of solution. And this brings us to another of the issues that worries us, which is that of cleaning the centers. The Covid-19 has made hygiene habits fundamental and this means a greater presence of cleaning services. What will happen to the bill, especially in the case of high school and FP, which is the responsibility of your department? Are you going to take charge of that bill increase or are you going to put all the responsibility of teachers and students in the case of the public and to pay it to families in the case of the concertee? We believe that this is an important enough issue for you to publicly commit here to take charge of the invoice. Look, Mr. Counselor, I recognize that the subject before you is very complicated. He knows that from the first moment we have offered to collaborate as much as possible, to give all the solutions that come to mind and to tie our shoulders in order to try to get this course to go forward in the best possible way, because, without a doubt, education is one of the great pillars, for me it is the great pillar of the welfare society and we all have to do our best to get this course to go forward and for our students to have the best possible education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.229.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the education counselor, Mr. Bargalló, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.230.0	Many thanks, president, deputies, deputy. Congresswoman Sierra, I do this to you a lot of times, I can't tell you that I'm just listening to you right now. I'm running the whole legislature, and you know it perfectly well, case them. Now, Minister Celaá..., I will not defend her now, let's say, beyond..., but I do tell her that Minister Celaá has been in contact with me since March 12 until yesterday, constantly. That he called me constantly and asked me about things constantly. I can tell you that Minister Celaá, when a news came out that a family of children from Igualada had a case calling for the case. And I can assure you that Minister Celaá has made proposals and has never wanted to interfere with our legislative and statutory capacity, I can say it perfectly. Let's just say, I have an excellent relationship with Minister Celaá, less tense than with the Socialist Parliamentary Group of this chamber. But, huh? – but – I gave support to the meetings when there were autonomous advisors who asked for a single instruction throughout the State, I gave support to Minister Celaá. First of all, if they did it, we'd do ours, huh? First of all, if they did one of us, we'd do ours. Because, moreover, I thought that the same meeting was an example of what was not to be done, because what Cantabria asked for was very different from what we asked for. Because Cantàbria explained that its great problem was the large number of school routes, school transport routes, and the difficulties they had to manage the large number of school transport routes. And they called for modifications to school transport routes. And we said that our great difficulty, for example, was those segregated centers of those barrels with vulnerability and connectivity. It was impossible to make a single instruction, it was impossible – it was impossible. But in any case, I insist, at these meetings that we have been holding, so this one that you are raising is a topic that has been on the table. And I say again the same thing I said to the Socialist MEP: here every one of us has done it, I think that what we thought was better, and if we were to do the first instruction on July 3, the first instruction that we could do on July 3, and Madrid did it on August 26, it is because we thought that July 3, was when we had to do it and Madrid did it on August 26, because it was when it thought that we had to do it. And you got to know your reasons, and I don't think I'm criticizing the educational authority for stopping because I know the difficulties perfectly. Questions that you have raised. Who's in charge? [[The timer laughs.]] I insisted: the person responsible for educational decisions in Catalonia. And it's more clear. Because perhaps on March there were doubts, because it is true, on March there appeared instructions to the centers that did not match signs, it is true; there are various explanations but it is true. All the instructions that have appeared, have been published, from June until today or are approved for the Process – therefore, of its execution and its realization the responsible one is the Process, which orders them – or are signed for myself, for the Councillor of Health and for myself – as we have today made a new resolution the Councillor of Health and myself – or signed for the Secretary of Educational Policies. Therefore, all are signed, and therefore any record of the compliment of that resolution is only responsible for the signature. That's what I said, that's what I said, and this time, let's just say, there's no doubt there's no signature..., or so it's all signed. Private children's schools have an open line of 9_million euros that did not exist for their support. It's open and we've extended it, more so. And, therefore, all those private schools that have economic difficulties have this line of support. That's right, they didn't even plan to continue with the line of support, did they? And they've shut down, it's true; how they've shut down so many activities that aren't different, and they know it's hard. But, I insist, it's a 9-million-euro line that wasn't there. So I can't wait for the rescue plan, which will also talk about it, and maybe make it more lines, but this is it. Special education. Special education, special education centres were declared – I said earlier – essential services, in a government agreement of August beginnings. So you're serving essentials, you're serving essentials, aren't you? You're already serving essentials. You've got what we've done, anyway, the Procicate has approved shared schooling, huh? That it was something that had remained in doubt and that we needed reports for its realization, and it approved it. Students and vulnerable teachers. For what it does to those students who have pathologies or illnesses that the families consider to be able to hurt, that are incompatible, are highly vulnerable in a period of Covid, the Catalan Society of Pediatrics has made the list of which are these diseases, and each student, each family, each student, through a pediatric report can submit to the center a report that says that the student cannot be attended in person. Each student who provides a report stating that they cannot be educated in person will be educated at home. This is a practice that we already do in the department, that we have doubled with more teachers dedicated to home schooling, that we have put more to each territorial service a coordinator because it is about the proper development of this schooling. But there will be no students who go to the educational centre, to the educational service a pediatric report that says they cannot be attended in person or there will be no students who are not attended at home. It's not the fact that I'm vulnerable in itself, it's the fact that there's a pediatric report that says that that pathology, that disease, that situation at these times of epidemic calls for this. For what he does to the faculty, he asked the faculty for a declaration of vulnerability from those who thought they had some kind of situation that was vulnerable to the Covid; they submitted some twelve_ thousand declarations of vulnerability; they carried out a personalized medical analysis– I am saying in the case of the public, huh? – on behalf of the public services – in the case of the concertation through the mutuals that each school has – and in the case of the public 1,700 teachers and professionals, not all teachers but administration staff and services or educational staff, 1,700 educational professionals have been declared vulnerable, of which eight hundred have low medicine, therefore, will be replaced. And the rest of them have a medical report calling for them to move out of work or start doing a telematic job or start doing... which is what these days are doing in contact with the centers and every one of them. Therefore, the low medical vulnerability is eight hundred professionals of public centers that tend to have their substitute dilluns. Therefore, the vulnerability issue which, moreover, is some question that we understand to be dynamic, is to say, we understand that there is now a teacher who has not made the statement, but can do so from here to one month, because he has a situation that he does not have and from now to one month we can keep the report. He can pass us the same with a student. And the surrogates, which you said, came, came and went, there should be no – there should be no. If there is any centre – I have already told the Central Board of Directors – that it has a superratio, that the inspection does not know or has not communicated it to us, that we communicate it to us because we will act, because superratio does not have to. There's a staff so you don't have to. The other thing is that there's some kind of center there. And of those things that you said to me: "The mask, you have changed your mind... You have changed your mind everyone, with the mask, in Europe. A while ago, she wasn't required to go down the road, and at one point, she's required to go down the road. We've moved the same time we moved the mandatory mask. And in the reply I will explain, I will be able to announce a novelty in masks that has been granted today with the Process and with the Department of Health, and to the reply I will announce it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.231.0	Thank you, Counselor. In order to make the reply, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.232.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Counselor, for your answers. The truth is that this morning Mr. Torra made the small number saying..., making himself outraged because he said that everyone had to ask him about education, that he was very worried about going back to school and then, incidentally, the spokesman for Junts per Catalunya asked him about education, that it is now a coincidence to ask just the question that was being asked today by the group to which Mr. Torra belongs. And I say that Mr Torra has put the number together, because the truth is that today there are three educational calls and we do not see him or anyone in his parliamentary group here, and so it does not seem to be true at all that he cares about education and that he simply wanted to put the number here. You know perfectly well, Mr. Counsellor, because in fact you have sometimes even complained a bit about joking that we are the group that asked you the most questions. We always go out in the rankings, you and I, hand in hand, because it's the one they ask the most and I'm the one who asks the most. What is happening, that today, instead of asking questions that are two and a half minutes, we have obviously preferred an inquiry, that are fifteen and that then, moreover, we can make a motion with all our proposals. It is clear who is really interested in education and who uses the theme of education to set up a small number in plenary. And, well, Mr. Counselor, I really understand perfectly that you stand up for Mrs. Celaá, because you let her do what she wants. Well, if that's what you like. You don't want it to have been, of course. They do not want to have a state to such an extent that they have done everything possible to break the state. Of course you're delighted with Mrs. Celaá. The problem is that the rest of the Spaniards seem to me that we are not so delighted with Mrs Celaá. And when I talk about the Spanish, of course I also mean the Catalans. And as for the masks, and I don't want to put myself in 'I already told you, but when he said it was mandatory to carry them down the street. That's why I say I was stunned, but it's the same, the important thing is that the students are finally going to take her. On the other hand, you have announced that schools will remain open even in the event of confinement, because of the theme of the school dining room and so on. I think it's good to go in, but of course the reality is that you can't compromise yourself if, for example, there's a state of alarm and they take away your skills again, so you have to think of a plan B. Because the reality is that that's it, we have to be warned that there may be a confinement, either total or partial, or there may be a state of alarm; and I'm sorry to tell you that, in this sense, you haven't done your homework on the subject of computers, because it worked wrong during the confinement and looks like it's going to work wrong again. You say it's that they're very expensive now, yeah, but it's that we've been saying it since March. We, from the Andalusian Junta, did collect, did collect devices, Mr. Counselor, don't tell me no. And you're late and bad. We're going to be in the same again. I don't want to be Casandra, but you'll see. Because besides the computers that were left, he had to end up returning the student clearly and we're going to be back in the same. And whether or not to have a device is what makes the difference when it comes to being able to access education on equal terms and, unfortunately, in Catalonia the educational gap was already enormous for a long time and with the pandemic as it has widened. And your department has to ensure that all students and teachers have access to a computer and access to the Internet with the different scenarios, which can be totally face-to-face, semi-presence or confinement. I hope you're committed to that. And at the beginning of my speech I told him that, although this inquiry is addressed to you, because I am aware that many of these issues should be coordinated and led by the central government – obviously you do not like it, but I think that it should be so – and that these guidelines should be agreed, especially as I said before, because there is a sense of scientific rigour. How is one thing going to be good in an autonomous community and not in the next? And here in particular, in the case of Catalonia, the teacher complains about the lack of clear rules in the recovery of curriculum, which we believe should be led from Madrid. What are you going to do about the subject of the curriculum? Mrs Niubó asked, too, but I do not think it is clear. It has to be very clear what are the contents that will be prioritized in the event of a new confinement and also what is to be recovered by the previous confinement. And another issue of enormous concern to families is that of the dining grants. We already told him that we had to increase the departure and also change the threshold. I want you to tell us a little bit about how the issue is going to be and what is going to happen in the event of a new confinement. Because from Citizens we are very clear that no one can be left behind, no one can be left behind neither from the pedagogical nor from the social point of view, because we cannot sacrifice an entire generation. We can't just leave them out of the mood in the face of a future that's getting more and more uncertain. We believe that all the money spent on education is not an expense, it is an investment. We have already warned that the budgets of the Generalitat had lapsed since before they were approved, and, if at the time when the money for education was approved was insufficient, it is that now there is no longer any place to start. So I hope you get all the financial resources to deal with this new course and to ensure that all students will receive a quality and equal education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.233.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, again, the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.234.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, let's go back, huh? We're not going to go in to compare autonomous communities, because, let's just say, we've all made decisions, and we've got them before we understand our context, and we've got them near, I guess, wanting to do the best. It's like, for example, groceries. We did 140,000 feeding scholarships during the confinement; Madrid did 30,000, and has more students than we do. Why? Because we decided to do all the groceries at 100_per_cent, have 100_per_cent scholarship or 50, and Madrid decided to do only the 100_per_cent scholarships. Let's just say, I don't think I'm criticizing it, but when we start comparing normally we open the door to making other comparisons. We, for example..., the purchase of 300,000 uncoupled devices for students is the highest that will be made in any territory of the State. And you could say, "It is that in Andalusia you do something that you do not do. I'm sure. And we do things that don't do in Andalusia. Why? So the reality has to be different. For example, this morning I was talking to the councillor of the Valencian Generality, about aspects..., how they were going, to them, these two days and a half that are already open, about decisions that they haven't yet taken and we don't have to take, what he thought, what I thought... Because we have a lot of fears in common and realities in common with the Valencian Generality, and we have a lot that are not social and economic reality, but I want to say that. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And they've taken decisions that we don't have around us and the other way around, but we've been commenting on them. That's why I'm saying I don't... And this happens to Germany with the lands and it's passed to the United Kingdom with Scotland and England, and it goes to the United States in each of the federated states. I mean, it's not so weird that every person makes decisions based on their territory. On the subject of masks, today we have reached a decision with Greeting, and from the meeting of the Procicate, which has already been communicated to the Center, which is, as you know... The Procicate authorized us, and today it has revealed, that to the education of the second cycle of children..., I forgive, that first the students in masks if the pandemic reality so advised. And today we have decided that all primary school students in Catalonia should be forced to mask. For what reason? Because we rebream them again, because some of them will know their stable group, and, therefore, we believe that the initial conditions make it possible for them to work with masks initially to be better, and from the fifteen days we will make instructions to communicate to the center..., in those territories where it will or will not be warm. Each day we will communicate to the centres, the following week, whether in their territory it will be mandatory or not, the use of mask at the primary from the six years, but we decided that more than once all the students arrive again, and possibly coming from familiar situations, this study, much different, was better, for that effect of the window, that say the epidemiologists, start here. The question of the themes, the curriculum..., here too we have not spoken to the State – because there is a part of the legislation that is state and, therefore, we cannot decide on this part – we have convinced the State that it would be good for you to allow us to make the curriculum more flexible, that it would be good for you to allow us to do it, because we want to do it – because we want to do it – and others, huh? Territories want to do it. Let's hope we can do it and we're working hard to do it. Now you will say to me: "It is very important to be able to make it more flexible. So if the State... now I don't think I'm making an irony, huh? But if the State does not allow us to do so, we may have to do so; if the State does not change our context, we may have to do the same. Now we're talking, and that's why they say, "And they'll bring them to justice and bring them to the Constitutional... So that's why, like the course is already pretty complicated, not to put insecurity in the center, if we can do it from state authority to better for everyone." [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] If we can't do it, we're working to do it, because, as you said, it's necessary to be able to make the curricula more flexible and that the schools work with these objectives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.235.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.236.0	... in a more peaceful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.237.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government on the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[300-00295/12]] The next question is about the beginning of the 2020-2021 school year, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.238.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselling, today, obviously, and as the parliamentary groups that preceded me have done in the inquiry, it is important to focus on the course that is about to take place, but also, from our point of view, it is important to balance what has been and what is being done by the department and you in this educational crisis, in this educational emergence, which from our point of view is structural and requires structural solutions – after we talk about it – but which sense of doubt the Covid-19_ has sharpened, accelerated and intensified enormously. But before we get into the balance, before we get into the valuation, I let them be represented by the five principles we make this valuation and this balance. An assessment is never neutral, I always respond to the contrast with principles and with values that I want to expose in advance. Probably with a lot of them or with some of them we'll agree completely. In the first place, the recognition of the difficulty of the crisis and of the reptes. In this sense, it is a crisis of enormous complexity, education and schools are at the centre, at the epicentre of this crisis, and therefore we start in this sense of recognition of the enormous difficulty involved in addressing this challenge. Entering first and foremost the principles that inspire us from the point of view of education, the consideration of education and schools as an essential service of all schools, of all educational centres, as an essential service; as hospitals: an essential service. Obviously, the special education we celebrate has been regarded as such, but we want to put on the table that a principle of reference is that, know how we already know the magnitude and complexity of the crisis, obviously the schools are at the center of the global approach. We deal with educational problems with them, but we address the global problems of our society. We demand the right to education as a matter of principle, as a matter of principle which the administration or institution may neglect: guaranteeing the universal right to education, for everyone, defending the principles of a public, universal, free and inclusive education. A phonetic issue – then we'll talk – that we think, if I may, that the Department clearly suspects, huh? : based on dialogue and consensus with the educational community. No crisis– no crisis–, no matter how difficult it is, justifies a culture, allows it to be'medid' there, of illustrated despotism, eh? Consensus, dialogue and the pact with the educational community are fundamental. But we also want to put on the table that we consider the educational crisis, sharpened by the Covid-19, to be a great challenge, but it also has to be an opportunity to transform education. We don't just have to respond to the educational crisis reactively to save the furniture, but what we have to do is take advantage of this crisis, this situation, to transform education. But, counselor, also to do the balance, to make the appreciation of what has been and is the performance of the department, of your department and from you to the front, we also have to put forward our objectives, based on what objectives we analyze and value and evaluate and examine the performance of the department. Who are the objectives for us from whom we examine their performance? So, obviously, that it would reverse the pre-pandemic flaps, and that the pandemic has eased the consequences of these flaps; it's obvious, isn't it? We have already come, as I said at the beginning, from a structural crisis of education, a structural crisis of public policies for years of detail, for years of backwardness from the point of view of public investment; therefore, the crisis was structural in our teaching, and, obviously, the pandemic that has made it is to make its consequences worse. Therefore, an objective is to reverse these details and that education in Catalonia, through and after the pandemic, will certainly and irreversibly become a quality system, without segregation, inclusive, with real capacity to attend to diversity, without exclusions and – I am another time – democratic, guaranteeing a curriculum education, certainly, but also – more in the crisis situation that we live – the school has to guarantee socialization, this is fundamental. It has to guarantee cures, the school has to be a space of cures, where there are reciprocal cures and where the value of the school of cures is learned. It also has to be a value education space. Now more than ever, solidarity and cooperation. And the school now has more than ever a social function: psychosocial support, mutual help, cooperation, community cooperation around the school, support families. And now, obviously, and in a very important way, a health function: prevention, follow-up and care of public salvation. Ensure equity between students and territories and, at times, diversity and autonomy depending on the diversity of the territories of our country. And that requires a very close collaboration with the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, Democracy in the centres and between the department and the educational community. Dialeg, negotiation and consensus. It obviously also requires resources. Inversion and priority. Education, educational centres, is an essential service, such as hospitals, and requires the absolute priority of the government's reversal. And lastly, we also want to highlight a fundamental objective: conciliation. Family, work and school reconciliation. Public policies. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , the Government, interdepartmentally, transversally, has to ensure that no student is left without school but that no family is left without tickets and no work. It is important to ensure reconciliation between work, family and school in any situation. Well, in relation to these principles and values that we have expressed and in relation to these objectives that we have raised, what is the balance that we make of the performance of their department? So we have to tell you, counselor, that in the management of the confinement you were suspended in the June call. And at these times I have to tell you, in view of how the prediction of the course start is at these times: you are at risk of suspending the September call as well. I have to tell him that the unexpected outbreak of the pandemic in March, which he could explain – not justify –, therefore, the improvisation of the palpants, the attempt-error, at these times is no longer an excuse for the deficiencies and shortcomings of the Government's educational policy in view of the beginning of the new course. We consider that the department did not take advantage of the time available to plan it properly and to do so with the consent of the educational community. The assumption for the new course was, before the Covid-19, totally insufficient to deal with the educational needs of our country; now it is obsolete. The current educational crisis is not only the result of the Covid-19, but also, as I said before, the result of years and years of detail and of the precariousness of the public teaching that the current government's conjunction is not reversed, nor is it sufficiently and transparently complementing its compromise on budgetary change, according to the nine priorities arising from the effects of the pandemic. We'd like you to talk about the famous presuppositional restructuring. And, look, I wanted to give him some data, but I'll wait for the second part of the intervention, so I don't have to stop the intervention until I give them. In any case, I finish, in this first intervention of balance and valuation. Education, such as sanitation and social services, is an essential service, I will not tire of underreporting it, and it requires the priority and reversal that society claims and that this government is not yet giving it. Then I will explain it with the data, which will also serve to justify our proposals. The management of the department was characterized by lack of planning and coordination, the policy of holders and the improper delegation in the direction of decision-making centres and criteria corresponding to the Government. The consequence has been and is, from our point of view, a high level of governance and the lack of coordination of the different departments. The character, the tarann of the management of the council, from our point of view, has been scarcely democratic, insufficiently based on the dialect, the consensus with the educational community. We've detected despotic, despotic, and, sometimes, too often, few dialogues. I'm done. We are left with the discomfort of the conjunction of the educational community, and we pose at their side. And you know, counselor, that until now the CUP had never called for the councillor's resignation. We've never done it before. Other parliamentary groups, in fact, the majority, at other times have done so. Not us, we haven't. Let's wait for what the course starter is and what the object is really worth the course starter so we can get laid whether we finish doing it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.239.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Government, the Education Councillor, Mr. Josep Bargalló, answers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.240.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, today all groups have asked or spoken about education, but that's normal – it's normal. We are in a course beginning, and as you have said and as you all know, a course beginning that is more complicated than what is always the course beginnings, which are always – which are always. I am grateful that you have made these general reflections. In any case, if I may, a first intervention let's say anecdotal to detente: assessments, they're no longer teacher's master, eh? They're already collaborative and cooperative evaluations, and already, even, self-assessments, huh? , and, therefore, let's say, that I am absolutely willing to make a cooperative assessment in that, for example, gathered that we have said. The President of the Generality, at meetings or meetings of the Central Board of Directors of Children and Primary and at the Board, also of Directors and Directors – Central – of Secondary, said this explicitly; he said that one of the mistakes we had made was not to consider the education service as essential after March 12. And he also made it very clear to the President of the Generality that, before any other situation seems to be an alarm state, as if it were a situation that, more than ever before, more than we are at these times, the Government would declare the educational services as essential services. And the President of the Generality said so. Of course I agree. And so, yes, in those moments we declared, in August, because there were doubts of functioning, that of special education schools, but, let's face it, there is this conviction that the government will do it, and you are absolutely right. The Italian pedagogist and illustrator Francesco Tonucci, who you know perfectly well, made the statement that the department considered the beginning of the course last week..., last week, from YouTube and from channels of the department, and Francesco Tonucci said that there were two fundamental rights of childhood that had been violated all the time – all the time – during the harder confinement for the pandemic, and that there were two key rights, and that they had been violated, and that it was gravity: one was the right to education and the other was the right to socialization and play; and that now we can't afford more, past the past with the pandemic, to fall back into the error of conculcating the right to socialization and play, and that now we can't afford to do more, past the past with the pandemic, and that it was the right to education and play. And it's true. And that's what we have to achieve with the opening of the school year for some of them coming. And that's what we have to achieve because it's also true, as you said, that the school instructs, yes; that the school forms, too; that the school socializes; that the school has a community function; that the school has a health function, and now more than ever; that the school also heals and guards, and it's true, for example, that one of the clearest ways of transmitting to the family nucleus and, in other words, to the society of hygiene is from the school. It is obvious that the fact that at school we now know, through that study of St. Joan of God and the other studies of the Valley of Hebron, that at least five rents of hands at the school days..., this will also be transferred to the family or to any other area where these boys and these girls, these young people, follow. It's also true that we come from some detail. And I, in any case, if I may, want to put into value a question that, like all of you, you have to have your different vision, or we can see it in different ways, but I want to put in value that it is the first time that we find ourselves in the face of an economic crisis, because this is also an economic crisis, it is a social crisis, it is a community crisis, but it is, for what makes public assumptions, an economic crisis, and for what makes many private economies also that it is, but for what makes public assumptions of the joints, of the Generality, of the State, an economic crisis, and it is the first time that we find ourselves in an economic crisis and the Department of Education does not minute in the press; it is the first time that we are in a crisis of the economy, but it is the assumption that we are in a crisis of the economy. You will say: "Mes. I said: "Look for more. And I can assure him I'm looking for more, and I hope I can. But I want to put that in value, huh? , more than we can argue that it has been a little or a lot, but it is the first time that, before an economic crisis, public policies in education do not subsume. And this I want to put in value because we are in a very complicated public assumption situation – very complicated. We've been listening to everyone. Listening to everyone with a diversity of opinions. Today there was in the department a concentration of denied families who would ask us not to impose sanitary measures on the schools. The concentration was very small; it is also true that there were unfavorable weather conditions. I found myself with families who told us: "You don't have any. I found myself with families who told me: "In few places. And I found myself with families who told me: "We will not bring our children there because they are clearly insufficient. I'm sure every one of us had a reason to ask this from his point of view, but it's true that we have to make a decision – it's true that we have to make a decision. And it is true that it is a decision that, from these collections that we have spoken, some of them do not satisfy them. We've met, for example, with the unions. We've met a lot. What's our job, huh? It's not a toilet or an explanation, no, no; it's what it was about. But we've met. And I want to say it again, and I say to which meetings, because there has also sometimes been a feeling that we haven't done it. From the sectoral table and technical months of the professorate of the public, an information session on May 30, a sectoral table l'1 d'April, an information session on April 3rd, a sector session on April 20th, an information session on April 23rd, a sector session on May 13th, a sector meeting on May 21st, a sector meeting on June 10th, a sector meeting on June 30th, a sector meeting on July 1st, a sector meeting on July 1st, a sector meeting on July 10th, a technical meeting on July 16th, a sector meeting on July 17th, a sector meeting on July 20th and a technical meeting on July 27th. In the band, I also met, out of months on the order of the day, once with all the unions and sometimes with the unions. But these are the meetings with the order of the day. And for what he does to the intercentre committee, who knows that we have a second table that is the intercentre committee, of the labor staff, administrative staff and servants, professorship of religion... So, gathered from the intercentre committee on May 11th, June 10th, July 24th, July 29th and July 31st. We've met. And with the gatherings every week, federation, association and congresses. And together in the metropolitan area, to set an example, with most of them more than once – with most of them more than once. Let's just say that we have a permanent contact with Mayor of Education at the Barcelona City Council. Today there is a manifesto of pedagogical entities, Rosa Sensat, which coincides in some of our installations. We have an educational community so rich, so free and so critical that it is not unanimous. If we confound consensus with unanimity, we don't have one. If we say that the search for consent is the hours of work meetings, we haven't done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.241.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply has the word again the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.242.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, a crisis like this – I'm referring to the topic of the dialog, huh? – from top to bottom it won't work. That is to say, it requires enthusiasm, illusion, cohesiveness, sense of belonging, sense of shared objectives, sense of care and care, listening and listening. And this is essential to co-ordinating the educational community that will face a very difficult situation. Therefore, dialogue and consensus is fundamental, and reaching agreements and pacts. That's what we're asking. That's what we're asking, that you come to agreements and agreements with the educational community. Well, he wanted to talk to her about some data quickly. Miri, the extra presupposition you have announced for this very busy course is the least that the educational community has ever claimed and claimed for the beginning of the new course before the pandemic – before the pandemic – and that we were going to move into the debate of assumptions in the form of statements that you, as it were, have rejected. Now, with the Covid-19, these figures are obviously completely obsolete and insufficient. So, this is a problem, it's a real problem. And, look, the educational community is asking its department five times more resources than their government is providing to the educational crisis. And they make numbers, I understand that with good criteria. Five more times. This is the magnitude of the gap. But, look, I'll give you some other data. The expenditure on educational concerts has increased from 1,075,5_million euros in 2017 to 1,160,4 in 2020; it has bid an 8_per_cent – educational concerts. In change, from course 16-17 to 2019-20, the increase in the number of students in public centers has been more than 17,769, while in change, the private school concert has dropped to more than four thousand students. And the financing of the concerts, however, increases by 84,8_million euros. Therefore, there is an increase in the funding per student of the private network agreed on by the increase per student of the public network, which is the responsibility in this country, the fundamental one and the one that primarily assumes the weight of fighting against segregation and in favour of inclusion. Rats. The course begins with a very high number of centers, altissima, that are over twenty and twenty-five. This is absolutely contrary to the principles of health prevention and educational quality. I move quickly to our proposals and requests. I'm in a hurry, because we'll have a chance to back them up and discuss them in the motion's text. It is possible to effectively guarantee the universal right to education at the length of life and in all the levels and cycles of format, with universal character, inclusive, accessible, equitable and free of charge for all the students of Catalonia and who have no family. It may be that the teaching is present for all cycles and school courses. The mixed system, both face-to-face and telematic, may limit it to very exceptional situations in which this model becomes indefusible. In anticipation of these situations, such that all students have portable computers, quality connectivity and textbooks, without exclusions, depending on resources and family needs and situations, and with the necessary educational support in each case. To establish specific and personalized answers for the students with special educational needs, and with their families. In situations of confinement, confinement of classrooms or schools, or quarantine, to guarantee the condition of family and work reconciliation of guardians who will have to take care of the children at home, without loss of labor and economic rights. And this is a responsibility that we don't stop putting on the government table, a cross-cutting responsibility that we believe their department also guarantees. To ensure that the Covid-19 pandemic is not a factor that increases school segregation; years on the contrary, it may become an opportunity to reduce it. Therefore, all schools enjoy fair educational resources to meet the needs of their students with guarantees of equality, quality and inclusiveness. Rats. Reduction of rates to a maximum of one god in childhood education and in childhood schools, of two to three year groups, of six in groups of one to two years, and of four in groups of infants, and to a maximum of fifteen in primary and secondary, with a maximum commitment of twenty times over the pandemic. It is necessary to increase the teaching staff so as to ensure this reduction of rates and school inclusion in all the centres. And I finish very quickly, because I was running out of time. Right to education, quality and equity of education and prevention of health, counselor, means guaranteeing social distance, adequate spaces, the relevant health resources and the increase of teaching necessary to ensure the download of ration; download of ration that will allow us to guarantee the health conditions, the quality of education and all these functions that we are asking for and proposing to school. From the degree of compliment of these objectives will emerge our definite balance from this beginning of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.243.0	Thank you, Congressman. Again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.244.0	MPs, MPs, MP Riera, first place... sorry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. In the first place, the school, institute or nursery will be, from dilluns, the safest place for the children and young people outside their home – they will be the safest place for the children and young people outside their home. Is this going to be a zero-risk spot? No, no, We're already after, if there's ever been zero risk, no, now still less. Therefore, thanks to the health authorities, thanks to the experts, thanks to the hospital teams, thanks to the directions of the schools, thanks to the teacher, this will be the case – this will be the case. Because there are maximum health guarantees, there is no more – there is no more. There's no more. We have 12 teams in Catalonia who are investigating. Maybe we'll get some more from here to a week. We will. We have the plan of cracks, which will begin on the 21st: 500,000 cracks in two_months at schools with all their community. We have the Sentinel School Project: fifty schools that will take a continuous follow-up to see the evolution of the pandemic respect the infants and what measures we need to take, with the guardianship of the Valley of Hebron and the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu. Therefore, sanitary measures, all of them. An important measure is the stable groups, which are as narrow as possible, but it is not important the name of the stable group, but the stability of the group, before the name, and conditions in which this stagnation is guaranteed. What you've been talking about, face-to-face. We've been betting on face-to-face. The hybrid teaching outside the centers is done in very exceptional cases. And in this sense we are of the governments of Europe that have most clearly apostated for face-to-face. Connectivity. A digital plan, in the first course, of 106_million euros, with the ciphers I have donated – with the ciphers I have donated – and with negotiation with international questions for if we can get more material still. Conciliation. You know that we have made proposals from the government and, in particular, work with Greetings, with Work, and Education, some assuming more than our skills oblige us and others asking the State to either take a step or leave us to do so. Because I want to remind them that in some case what we've said to him is, "So we'll do it ourselves. Because it is obvious that it is the same to take care of the winging of an infected minor than to take care of the winging of an infected minor close contact of an infected minor. It's the same. Socially, the community has no difference. For what it does to the actions with the students who have suffered most vulnerability in this situation, or have already had more than before, and have made themselves worse or have already kept them, a plan of 45_million euros, with very concrete actions, destined to the most complex centers, with very concrete actions, most of them following the plan against the segregation of the Synod of Greuges, and other new ones. We have made and will make every effort to ensure that, as you said, Mr. Riera, there are not only schools that are open to certain schools, but also schools that are open to schools that continue to bet for the better education and make the current situation a situation because this better is stronger. And we will, I insist, thank everyone. And thanks to the faculty, thanks to the directions, thanks to diversity, thanks to the understanding that a stable group in a rural school is one thing and that a stable group in the second five types of school in the second five bars of a city is another thing, and that, therefore, it is not possible to make a single instruction, because diversity is also the richness of our school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-09-6001.245.0	Thank you, Counselor. We called for a vote. We will now vote on the points discussed during today's day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's right. Let me remind you that all Members follow, if you please, the message they have assigned; if not, we will have problems with the voting system. If there's any doubt, let us know. [[Long break.]] Yeah. We are organizing the voting system again because there has been some withdrawal from some delegation and we therefore need to adapt the seats in which it will be voted again. So, they'll take a few minutes. Thank you. [[Long break.]] All right. So once we're done, let's get to the vote. [[Decree-Law 29/2020 of 28 July, on which presuppositionary measures are taken in relation to the deployment of social welfare activities, the ordering and strengthening of certain social residential and day-care services provided by the Residence Contingency Plan, in order to address the outbreaks of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19, in which the existence of presuppositions in the matter of childhood and adolescence of the Decree-Law 11/2020, of 7 April, in which economic, social and administrative measures are taken to address the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and other complementaries, and in which the Decree-Law 21/2020, of 2 June, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Economic and Social Council, of the Social Council, of the Social Council of the Social Council of the European Council of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the ……]] [[203-00054/12]] The first point to vote is the correspondent to item 2 of the order of the day, that is to say, the Decree Law 29/2020, of 28 July. The vote begins. Decree 29/2020_has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 42 face-to-face or delegates and 23 telematics – against 69 abstentions. And now I have to ask the chamber if any group wants to be dealt with as... – yes? – with the bill of law. [[Pause.]] So let's actually vote if this Decree 29/2020 is dealt with as the bill or not. The vote begins. As there have been 69 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and no abstention, this Decree Law 29/2020 will be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree No. 30/2020 of 4 August, establishing the specific sanctioning regime for failure to comply with health prevention and containment measures to address the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 (cont'd)]] [[203-00055/12]] Let's now vote on the third point, which is Decree Ill 30/2020, of August 4. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 65 votes in favour – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – against 69 abstentions. In this case, some group wants to process this... yes? [[Pause.]] So we vote for processing as the bill of this law. The vote begins. As 44 votes have been cast in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and 25 abstentions, this decree will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Proposition of the law of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in housing leases (continuation)]] [[202-00080/12]] Let us now proceed to vote point 4, the vote on the Proposition of the Law of Urgent Measures in the matter of content of yields in the leases of habitat. The fact is, as has been stated, that the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn items 5, 6, 7, 21, 28 and 47 for this text. In the first place, we will vote together on the two totality items presented for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Start voting on these items in totality. These total items have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – and no abstention. We now proceed to vote on the joint papers. I, in this case, vote in the first place on item 3, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 113 against—correspondents to 90 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics—no abstentions. We now vote on the suppression papers submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which are the 9, 13, 17, 20, 23, 25, 27, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 41, 43 and 45, and the papers submitted for the People's Party of Catalonia Parliamentary Subgroup, issues 8, 12, 16, 19, 22, 24, 26, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 42, 44 and 46. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – with no abstentions. We now vote on the 4, 10, 14 and 48 documents presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 77 against – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – 21 abstentions. And now we are voting on item 18, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It has been rejected, this said, by 36 votes in favour, 94 against—correspondents to 71 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics—, 4 abstentions. Then we proceed to vote now on the compromise items. And, first of all, we vote for transactional item number 1, between item 11, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 6 of the text of the bill. The vote begins. This compromise was approved by 77 votes in favour – 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents – 57 against, no abstentions. And now we vote on transactional item number 2, between item 15, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 7 of the text of the bill... [[Seeing the background and taking a long break.]] I'm sorry, in the previous vote, I was wrong about the outcome of the votes, huh? And, therefore, I reproduce, now yes, well, the results. We are talking about the transactional emena number 1, between the emena 11, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and article 6 of the text of the proposed law. The result is 73 votes in favour– 54 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents–, 4 abstentions... [[Seeing the background and pause.]] Excuse me. No, no, no... excuse me: 73 votes in favour, 57 against and 4 abstentions. Yeah? [[Pause.]] I repeat: 73 votes in favour – 54 correspondents from face-to-face and delegates, 19 from telematics – 57 votes against and 4 abstentions – of telematics votes. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's now vote on transactional item number 2, between item 15, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and article 7 of the text of the bill. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This compromise was approved by 71 votes to 52 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents, 57 against and 6 abstentions. And finally, we vote for the rest of the text, which has not been moved. The vote begins. The Proposition of Law on Urgent Measures in the Content of Returns in Housing Leases has been approved by 71 votes in favour– correspondents to 52 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics–, 59 in..., sorry, 63 against– now yes– and no abstention; 71 votes in favour, 63 against, no abstention. [[Greetings.]] And finally, we vote on the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to the debate on the proposal to present the proposal to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me, you don't have to vote, because the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia has certainly withdrawn it in its intervention. So there's nothing else, no more voting. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
