ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.1.0	The session begins. The reminders that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary was included in the file and that, according to Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be replaced this morning as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. In the first place, we will ask the questions with an oral answer to the President of the Generality and, later, the questions to the Government. I would like to point out to you that, for this plenary session, eighty-nine Members and Members have delegated their votes, and twenty-three Members and Members have joined the telematic vote, while twenty-two Members will vote face-to-face. To issue the vote in a telematic way to the votes scheduled for this late, at items 2, 3, 4, 9, 10 and 11 of the order of the day, the term will end thirty minutes before the suspension of the session; that is to say, two-quarters of the time, approximately. For the votes scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, points 5 to 13, the deadline for issuing the telematic vote will also end thirty minutes before the session is suspended late. Let us now turn to the first item on the agenda, which is the questions with an oral answer to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the development of meetings of autonomous presidents]] [[317-00205/12]] And the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.2.0	Yeah. Could you tell us about the development of the meetings of autonomous presidents in which you are participating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.3.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.4.0	Yeah. Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Now I answer it, but I'd like to go to the village before I go to the village and above all to the people of Aran; today is their national day. And if you'll allow me, then I'd like to do the following reflection. He was Aran's Hesta, and he was Celibre Aran's Hesta. This is an important day; as a result of the restoration of the Conselh Generau d'Aran and the recovery of the self-government, it was a celebration of the prumères élections. And, again with a special significance, because of the crisis of this coronavirus, it can't be until now that celebrating massa dame is foreign and it's only day. Congratulate the Arenses and the Arenses on the expiration of their national ancestry. Visca was freed from the people! It was Val d'Aran and that's what you're going to decide. Good morning, all of you! And now, if you will allow me, after you, therefore, have done your reflection, I will answer it. In fact, we have had around thirteen, fourteen meetings, the diumens, meetings in which unfortunately there was not the dialogue, the debate, the agreements that I would have wanted and that, if it allows me, then I will then do the whole analysis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.5.0	Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.6.0	Thank you. Look, you've decided to go to the meetings of autonomous presidents to talk about financing, among other things. And that's fine with me. Moreover, you have the right and obligation – both – to try to reach the best possible agreement there, exactly like the rest of the autonomous presidents of Spain. The problem, maybe, isn't that. The problem is why it has been two years without attending such meetings, losing opportunities. But in any case, you'll understand that I'm stuck with emotion when I see you, for the first time, do something meaningful. Let's see how long it takes. So much so that the novelty inspires me to share with you a reflection on the history of autonomous financing in Catalonia. Catalonia resigned, at the time, the economic concert. The Catalan delegation of Trias Fargas, Pujol and Miquel Roca..., did not want to go through the bad trance of collecting taxes and preferred the system, already known, of "fish to cove. For their part, in those times, Esquerra Republicana, PSC and PSUC, called the concert, I quote, "conservative Carlist relic". And you will be able to tell me, rightly, "It has been many years and this could change, right, but you will not pretend that the Catalans are the only inhabitants of planet Earth who have no responsibility for the successes and mistakes that our predecessors have made. Basques and Navarros asked for the concert, but they did not achieve it unilaterally: they agreed to it and subsequently voted with all the Spaniards. Catalonia resigned from the concert. And, therefore, any change we want in funding we will have to agree on, agree on, with the rest of the Spaniards. Because the unilateral way never works. It never worked. It's only good for certain hyperventilated people to come up and make themselves brave. But, at the time of truth, it has only brought division and misfortune. Because, speaking of misfortunes, like the ones we are experiencing, perhaps the only positive teaching that we can draw from this situation is that we will only advance if Basques, Catalans, Asturians, Madridns..., in short, all the peoples of Spain are able to come out united. Divided we are very little; instead, united, the Spaniards are able to overcome any adversity, however difficult this is. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.8.0	Yeah. I didn't just go to these meetings to make a claim for resources. I, from the first moment, always, like the President of Catalonia, have made proposals; constructive proposals, suggestions. Not just for Catalonia; we understood that they were good all over the state. From total confinement to the release of children, to masks..., we've always made constructive proposals, we've always tried to bring there where you're allowed, with the little slaves you're allowed. Because unfortunately these meetings are already preceded by a public announcement by the President of the Government who then repeated us to us. But, actually, it was very important to me..., and I'm glad that you, too, want and want all the resources you can for Catalonia. So here we have a way to run. Because now it seems essential to me. I think there are two important issues: sovereignty and resources. We want all the sovereignty and all the resources, logically. But in any case, if there's a lot of this way we can go together, so I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.9.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the division of government and its dedication to economic and social reconstruction]] [[317-00207/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.10.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. President, what do you think the citizenry thinks when you see that every week the Government of the Generality is leading internal battles and is not devoting all its efforts to the social and economic reconstruction of the country? And I would ask you to answer this question as the most responsible of this government and not for whites with the classic arguments of 'Spain in suffocation'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.11.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.12.0	No, no, I'm not leaving for the whites. I'm getting over what happened yesterday, aren't I? , or before yesterday, in which, in a vote at the Congress of Deputies, in which I believe that most of the progressive groups of the State voted in favour of investigating the alleged corruption of King Joan Carles, therefore, it was very clear that the Spanish Government voted differently, and very differently– and very differently–, to hear us, didn't it? I mean, she seems to be lying that before a vote like this, so a government is so divided. Miri, I'm guessing it's coalition government stuff. Sometimes these things happen. He passes it on to the Spanish government. To the Catalan government, sometimes, so, also, logically, we have our little differences. In fact, there are discrepancies that come from generation; which we then concentrated on in order to be able to bring forward the assumptions, and now we are concentrated, focused, at the cent_per_cent of our time, in the very serious economic crisis, by responsibility, because it is what the citizens ask of us, by loyalty to the citizens of Catalonia and by efficiency and efficiency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.13.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.14.0	President, on the 29th of January, you said "presumables and elections". More than a month and a half have passed since the approval of the assumptions and we still have no news of the election call. It's true that the last few months we've experienced a pandemic. But there is a constant that has not yet changed the Government of the Generality, which are the internal struggles between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana to maintain the power of the institutions. You're running a divided, fractured government right now. And, in fact, it is also the most unproductive in Parliament, since its restitution: there have only been so many ways to pull six laws forward and there have been eight more in progress. And the truth is they don't surprise us, because you have the energies laid in another place. Only last week, three internal bars, with a proper name: Ferrovial, Jordi Arasa and Laura Borràs. The dilluns are demarcating with an externalisation of more than 17_million euros to Ferroser, a branch of Ferrovial, to make the tracing of cases of coronavirus. Certainly, Ferrovial, the one that was also related, presumably, to the 3_per_cent plot. On Tuesday we knew her sentence to Jordi Arasa, for the rape of 15-M. And on this occasion it was Republican Left that asked for explanations for his ascension, as if they had never formed part of this government, when he's been in this government for years. And we have also seen how Laura Borràs has converted the vote of her supplicator into a point of inflection between the real Catalans of good, and also posing against the Left Republican strings and the CUP. But they're not partyed, President, it's that every week we're talking about similar parties. And that's why I'm asking you to complement him with your 29-genre word. This government no longer has recourse; every minute lost in an internal barrage is a minute lost for the reconstruction of the country. And, besides, the citizenry has right to choose if it wants this reconstruction to be done for the right and with a broken government or from the unit of the left and with a cohesive government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.15.0	When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.16.0	And what I want is for the government of Catalonia to always be an independent government and to have as its north, therefore, to absolve independence. That's my wish. I've worked since the first moment on this road, and I'll keep working on it all the time, on this road. Achieve the independence of Catalonia. For me, that's the point. Look, I... it's just that, with the issue of elections, well, you know, I don't have any personal interest; I won't be a candidate or present myself. I'm here because of country interest, because I think the country has to go to the front of everything. We had to go before interested partyists when we decided that we did not call elections because this country needed the assumptions and returns the country before any party interest at these times; at these times when the health crisis would have ended. And maybe then we'll have an opportunity to talk to you about it, with the timing that the college of doctors presented. We just have to get the economic crisis going, which will be extremely long. But now we've got to put down the phone numbers. Now we have to rethink the assumptions. Now we have an important battle, with the State, of resources. And I hope you're on our side, because you're part of the Spanish government. Therefore, it is up to you to solve the resources of Catalonia. And we also need to face and face the fate of the social crisis and the educational crisis. Because it will also be very important. I assure you that when we are dealing with all these solutions, because it is now where I..., we need and the Government of Catalonia needs to focus, at a hundred_per_cent; when we are dealing with these solutions, I have no doubt that the citizens of Catalonia will be shouted at the polls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.17.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the extraordinary resources that the Generalitat will allocate to guarantee the initiation of the school year 2020-2021 under the appropriate conditions]] [[317-00204/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.18.0	President... Many honorable President of the Generality, allow me 'to add to your congratulations for the feast of all the spiders and spiders, and that a little more remember the victims of the Covid and their families, their friends, and also the recognition of all the people who, in the first line, continue to fight against this pandemic. My question has to do with the emergence of education – I quote from Councillor Bargalló – which we are facing. The one who's been through this pandemic has put our education system to the test and doubt. Prolonged school disconnection has generated uncertainty and frustration among the educational community. And they're exactly the families and the student with the least of them that the consequences have been the most. He will agree with me, President, that the government is responsible for the leadership on this issue and for the effectiveness of a system that guarantees more than ever equal opportunities. And he will also agree with me that we need to place education in the centre of any reactivation plan in the country. President, we have an underfunded education system, and there are obviously a lack of resources. The Government of Spain has already announced the transfer of €2,000_million to the autonomous communities, in September, for education. And my question is the following: what extraordinary resources, in addition to those already provided for in the assumptions, is prepared to allocate the Government of the Generality to guarantee an initiation under the conditions of course 20-21, bearing in mind that the prevailing assumption, in our opinion, is clearly insufficient?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.19.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.20.0	So, miri, I'm surprised that you ask me this question; this question you have to ask Mr. Sanchez, exactly. Who are the extraordinary assumptions that the Government of the State intends to transfer to Catalonia? We..., this country generates sufficient resources to properly finance our education system, our health system, our social system. He knows perfectly well what the problem of Catalonia is, he knows perfectly well that our problem is said to be social deficit..., it's said 16,000_million euros disappearing every year. That's the big problem in Catalonia. And now what situation do we find ourselves in? So it's still clearer and more obvious. And now what's going on? That the Spanish State announces great economic plans. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no; listen'm, what we want is to return, first, our money. We made a very clear proposal: €15,000_million. This is the amount we think the citizens of Catalonia need, all the citizens of Catalonia, to improve their welfare, to improve their education, their universities, their search centers, to finance themselves correctly; 15,000_millions that, in addition, we make an effort to obviate the historical debt and, if it allows me, the fiscal deficit. And that, besides, they are not all transfers from the State, but we assume that we agree, that 5,000_millions can be from the European Union, through the Mede, is to say that the State asks them to account for Catalonia at 0.1_per_cent. And that would come to us... 2.5 of GDP is 5,000_million. Also, 2,500_millions, if the State allows us..., and the other day you seemed to be correct, so you authorize us the topall of '1_per_cent debt; 2,500_millions more. These are the extraordinary resources that the Government of the Generality can obtain. But it's up to the government of the state, its government. You and you are the ones who are now responsible for Catalonia's resources. And, therefore, I hope that in this point you take into account the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. Because it is for all the citizens of Catalonia that we need these resources.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.21.0	To ask again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.22.0	Yes, thank you, President. I was convinced that such a simple and specific question as I have asked him would not get a clear answer. I am talking about the EUR 46,000 million that constitute the premise of the Government of Catalonia, which resources must be changed so that education has the necessary skills? A question as simple as that. You tell me what is to come from other places, but some time, President, you should answer for what are your responsibilities, from what are your skills, from what are the resources you manage on behalf of all Catalans. The question is very simple. You know, with the approved assumptions, there's not enough? So which presuppositional remodeling do you think you're doing? , which additional resources think to pose on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.23.0	Congressman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.24.0	...to deal with the emergence of education? That's the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.25.0	Thank you. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.26.0	Miri, we'll re-establish the assumptions. Everything – everything. There is a group – you know perfectly well – of the Government, dedicated exclusively to this, to prioritizing all the presuppositionary lines. But this country will never have the presupposition that it needs and that will never, if at last it does not end with the fiscal deficit. More. It's impossible – it's impossible. And that's exactly why we want them. We want to manage our resources. Why shouldn't we want to? Isn't that obvious? Doesn't it go better than all the citizens of Catalonia, to dispose of all the resources that Catalonia generates? It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.27.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about unity and joint strategy before the judicial offensive and the embattments of the State against Catalonia]] [[317-00208/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Protecting life, revitalizing society, economy, culture, is today's absolute priority. But fixing this between cell and cell, helping the people of this country, doesn't make us give in or abandon any political objectives. A political objective we share. And as we share the objective, it is also appropriate for us to share the strategy to bring it to fruition, President. We need to take steps together, because difficult days come another time. Batteries that seek to weaken us stand together. And we just want the opposite. Because we are strong when, from the difference, from the division of opinions, from pluralism, we prioritize the joint strategy, the unitary response; not uniform, unity. We saw it yesterday, precisely, with the Commission of 155, voting in full the conclusions, assuming the nuances of one another, finding us again in the shared path: I need independence at the embattery of the State, joint response to the 2017 claveguers. Since we are, we have also found ourselves together in the Congress, when they have politically shielded the corruptions of the king investigated Switzerland and now, the Supreme, and against a state that the CIA needs to answer the ichs of an equation of which we all knew the answer. But we're going to have to find each other in our own house too. And this week, president, we've seen how they set a date for you to sit on the bench of the defendants. And you have all our support, President. And that is precisely why we have to secure and draw a joint strategy to respond to a new judicial interference with Catalonia's political decisions. We can't talk about it enough from the unit and leave it with proclamations in the wind, we have to take real steps and together, because, if he divides us, we get sick. And that's what our rivals know. And just as things are, we don't have the right to get hurt or split up. For this reason, today we urge once again a joint strategy of independence, to decide together how we move forward. The unity is not proclaimed, it is exercised; from the ideological plurality that has always made us strong, agree and walk together. Why does it cost so much, President? We are very clear that the objective that cannot be renounced is the Catalan Republic, and we do not want it to go, but as a tool to improve the day-to-day life. We don't want to weigh old vices or repulsive attitudes, but we believe in the republic to captivate everything. And, therefore, a fair, net and free society. President, what's up? President, let's set a joint path.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.29.0	To answer that, the president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.30.0	Yeah. Thank you, Congressman. Together, always. And if you allow me both words, together and always. I think that's the formula. And together, and always against the repression of the Spanish State, of course, and in favor of our own human rights, personal rights, as we have seen this week, which, again, has been kept in prison, etc. But also national, and therefore from the right to self-determination. And, therefore, against repression and in favour of a full road to achieve independence. It's the caretakers of the same coin. Miri, I'm from the unit, exactly. I have this parenthesis of political work, but I'll go back to the same place I was. Therefore, let's say that my conception, my way of hearing how we can move forward to achieve independence, only the little one conceived from the unit. And, actually, when are we strong? When we're done with not just telling us - just doing it, huh? I'm going to vote now. We were strong when we voted together in Madrid, so against the state of alarm. We were strong when we voted together in Catalonia, for example, when we gave an answer to the U of October. I came up with that saying, after the U of October, to this chamber, and I made a proposal: that we should go back to the polls to make a self-determination reference. I'll take it there. Is there the whole chamber here? That's the question. Sixty days later, the chamber voted for a resolution in which we wanted and achieved, the three independence groups, a great political agreement to exercise the right to self-determination as quickly as possible. I'm in here. And there we were strong because we voted for this resolution together. So come on. What does it mean to say as quickly as possible? With what? I made a proposal. I'm keeping it. How do we get along? Because it's against repression and it's in favor of moving forward. We've got to keep moving. Always moving forward. The path to independence is a straight line; no, it's not a line that goes from ances and tornadoes. And so, together and always. It can't be a tactic; it's a strategy, it's a long-lasting strategy. And, therefore, we must go there. But we must always go – we must always go there. And, therefore, I think that's what we agree on, we agree on the three groups of the chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.31.0	President, your time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.32.0	...so much good, huh? The question you're asking is ugly, so we all do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.33.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the necessary transformations to strengthen and not put the health system in danger]] [[317-00206/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable President of the Generality, if we analyze the human, social and economic damage caused by the coronavirus, we know that the list is extensive. But we can list a pile of actions that allow us to be optimistic and strengthen ourselves with the country: from the emergence of thousands of solidary initiatives, the help and complicity of the veins and veins, the ability of businesses and small businesses to adapt to the new situation, to delivery, the dedication and the effort of the socio-health professionals of our country. Sense of doubt, doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, carers, workers of the net of hospitals and centers of primary care and residences are the authentic heroes and heroes of these last three months of insomnia; they are a symbol of a collection of pride that for weeks has been expressed with applause from the country's balconies. In this sense, we celebrate that the Government recognizes its over-effort and its commitment with a compensation of 140_million euros, in this sense. In addition, the health sector has made public a decade, a decade on the profound and urgent reforms that the health system needs and that have now become worse with the pandemic. Reclaim more muscles, have more resources for equipment and better conditions for professionals. From Juntes per Catalunya, they are aware of the infra-financing by the Spanish State, we ask that these claims remain escorted and do not fall into a punched bag. It is urgent decisions that do not accept delay and that can be addressed as soon as possible. Every society has the moral duty to take care of professionals who take care of their people. Salvation is the first bulwark of welfare and freedom. We must be faithful, therefore, to the model of salvation of success, of reference, which we have all built for decades. So now, President, we must be able to undertake the necessary transformations so as not to put you at risk. In this sense, President, we would like to know what his view of respect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.35.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.36.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. You're right. It has been an extraordinary exercise of professionalism, of vocation to serve the citizenry, that all our health personnel, from doctors and nurses to the auxiliary staff, to the clean staff of the hospitals..., everyone who has been working there..., have actually been a few days unforgivable. I think this is marked in Catalonia's history as one of the great stories of the country. I, who have lived very close, as I can imagine, therefore, remember from that time of total darkness when I was calling all the hospital directors to see how they were doing at times of extraordinary gravity, and they always wanted us to get out of it, "let's move forward, "we're doubling ICUs, "we're three times ICUs, etc. And the time has come, now, indeed, to make this gratification. I think it's a unanimous feeling from all over the country, to somehow compensate economically, so, this extraordinary effort, but we have to go more there– we have to go more there. And, indeed, the colleges of doctors from all of Catalonia, the College of Nurses of Catalonia, the Catalan Society of Health Management, both to the Councillor of Health as myself, came to present to us the decáleg with which they consider that the system of salvation of Catalonia needs to be reformed. I think they also introduced him to different political groups. To whom we have a way to go together. Now that we have all the professionals in this country who have said to us, "Listen, look, we believe that these are the basic points with which we structurally reform the health and health system of Catalonia – and we are told by the professionals, the ones who have made it possible – so here we have to point to working them all together. Or is it that we do not agree on a new health pact with more economic resources – 5,000 million more, we ask – with better conditions and resources for health professionals, with more resources for equipment and infrastructure, with professionalism, with a different health organization, with coordination between care areas, with more social emphasis – this means the integration of the health system and the social health system for a healthy public health –, or the experience of the Covid-19..., an opportunity? I conclude: "Without salvation there is no economy and without salvation there is no future. With these two points, is there any group in the chamber that doesn't agree? Can't we work them all together? Can't we have a major structural reform pact on the health system that this country now deserves? I invite them all to participate and make it possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.37.0	President, thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the appreciation of his writings of the past and about his judicial future]] [[317-00203/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.38.0	Thank you, President. Mr Torra, this week there are two issues which concern Catalans and which concern both their past and their future. The peaceful protests against racism, to which we give our support, are growing throughout the world, also here in Catalonia, where there has been serious action by a mosso, which, of course, does not represent the body, and on which we have requested Mr Buch's appearance in this Parliament. Unfortunately, racism is still very present in our society. And you are a president who has some writings that were described as racist by the three main European parties: the popular, the liberal and the conservative. That for us is a cause for concern and shame. And it must not be a taboo, Mr Batet; one must be able to speak. This is your past, Mr. Torra. If we look to his future, we already know the date when the Supreme will see his case out of disobedience, which is September 17. I wanted to ask you what assessment you make of your writings from the past at a time when politicians must be clear condemning racism and also what assessment you make of your judicial future, Mr Torra, at a time when political stability is needed to concentrate on saving lives and jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.39.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.40.0	Miri, I'm not just against racism, but we're going to push the table against racism. It's been a year since the anti-racism table was assembled. And any racist attitude in this country has to be absolutely not allowed, it has to be fought and it has to be, of course, rejected in a radical – radical – way, eh? And all these episodes that you mentioned that have passed, from these police..., both the Councillor of the Interior, the same head of the Squadron Mosses, the Councillor yesterday, on behalf of the Government, we radically rejected them. And we'll wait for the judge to hear who's not guilty of making the most radical and extreme decisions. I'd just miss it, yes; of course I would. That's what I can tell you about this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.41.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.42.0	Mr Torra, you have not clarified your literary past or your judicial future, and that compromises the president of all. Look, we are at a historic time of health, social and economic crisis, and also protests against racism are spreading. But in Catalonia we have, nothing more and nothing less, someone who is unable to say a few words, to rectify, to repent of his writings, condemned as racist by the parties leading Europe, among whom, by the way, Ciutadans is, and you are, not, for something will be; perhaps it is because Europe is an area of human rights and of freedoms and of compliance with national constitutions and laws, too. That and your judicial problems are a loser, Mr Torra, at a time when we must work for reconstruction. And besides, you're proving that you're not prepared to handle it. While the Catalans are suffering, you are dedicated to feeding division and victimism. Look, if there's anything you don't have to go back to the new normality, it's that your identity policies, your chiringuitos and your waste of money are normal. As long as your government lasts, put yourselves to work for the good of all. From Ciutadans we won't stop doing it for a minute. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.43.0	To answer again, has the word President Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.44.0	Yes; I see that, with the decontainment, so, too, the old and truncated topics of Ciutadans have been decontained. I don't know, I don't know what happened, because it seemed like until now, so your group was opting for some moderation. I see you're not. Go back to the cane retahíla of tópics. I insist that... I think that honestly, I don't know, they've tired everyone; this room, of course, but I think that to the citizenry... I don't think the citizens are now because of their type of speech, honestly, at these times, at these difficult times; they weren't there and I don't think they're there right now. They wouldn't let us. And I won't come in now to answer it or talk to you about what you do. I don't know, it's just that, finally, I wouldn't be alienated by the fact that I'm still being swallowed from the bottom of the chair, so, uh, some of these posters, right? , put to make a revival of old times. I think it's all changed – forgive me, huh? And the citizens, what are they asking us now? Maximum efficiency, « concentrate on work, « agree, « pull forward the exit of the health emergency, « pull forward the exit of the economic emergency. I suppose you talk to a lot of people. I assure you, every day, with a lot of people. The situation is very serious, economically, and we are told: "Listen to me, priority the assumptions, demand the resources that will hold us, think about how we open the schools and that all children can go to the schools. They're asking me this, they're not asking me to go into this kind of discussion that you want to do. I would invite him to make constructive proposals, to work for the future of all Catalans. I'm inviting you, by the way, to change your speeches, to sum up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.45.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.46.0	...for a time in life they intend to sum up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.47.0	...time has run out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about control mechanisms to prevent police brutality]] [[310-00349/12]] Finish the questions to the President of the Generality, let's go to the questions to the Government. And the first is about control mechanisms to prevent police brutality. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. Now the counselor comes in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.48.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, in the collective memory of many people in this country there are two dates that we will not forget: the 15-M and the U of October; two dates that show the strength of peacefully organized citizenship, but two dates that we would also remember for police brutality and also for its impunity. Last week we were familiar with Jordi Arasa's second sentence for the displacement of Plaça Catalunya during the 15-M, a feeling that is a small victory of social movements and human rights defenders. Incomprehensibly, this staff member of the Mosso d'Esquadra was promoted to the head of the ARRO in Barcelona last March, a fact which illustrates very well that he has not been condemned as a consequence of internal control mechanisms of the body but has been thanks to a collective complaint in which he is able to identify, which is very rare because police identification numbers are still not always visible. But it is that the anti-regulatory use of the fuck for which it is to be condemned, over the waist and against peaceful demonstrators, we have seen it on repeated occasions by different agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra during his term, counselor. Only this past year have we seen it in various denunciations and also in the police charges of last October. And to all these episodes is added the racist aggression to a city of Sant Feliu Sasserra that we have known this day; some repugnant and totally unacceptable facts before which you have been a year and a half without doing anything, and when the response has been manifestly insufficient. Racial profile IDs are the gateway to police rape, and they're not a side event, counselor. All just fifteen days ago we knew another case with xenophobic insults to a citizen of Badalona. Counselor, the General Police has a problem, and it's called police brutality. What is the Interior Department doing to fight it? Do you intend to take any measures and push forward the structural changes that your own government partner is asking for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.49.0	To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. I'm talking about an ascent of a cop. It is based on a police career, some opposition, and on which, therefore, at the political level we have nothing to see. You know that the same EBEP, by changing the law, made them work as the only ones who participated in the courts in the composition of these promotions or oppositions made by public workers. So I'm guilty of something in which, therefore, he overcame some merits that were devolved to him, and he's already here. Therefore, we are neither responsible nor co-responsible. She's talking about a racist assault that's been a year and a half since we met. That's fake. I can't act on a disconnected fact. I had... the department had a complaint, but I didn't have the proof. Of complaints we have many, many complaints, we have; permanently we have complaints. A police body constantly has complaints. And the police investigation turns out if these allegations fit into a reality or are false allegations, which, unfortunately, we also have. From here, and from this investigation, there was a second complaint in a lawsuit, specifically the Manresa Trial, and the Manresa Trial decided to investigate. From here on, that investigation that was managing the Squad's Cos de Mossos goes only and exclusively to work for jutjat. And, therefore, the department and the same Cos de Mossos has no information about what is being investigated. The audio, the family didn't want to give it to the Mossos d'Esquadra or let it listen; they gave it to the jutjat. It was then when the investigation continued. And this morning we had the information of this audio and we listened to it all. An audio that disgusts me, an audio that makes me feel ashamed. And only in four hours did we act and sanction the six agents in advance, because we don't even know who the perpetrators are, who the cover-ups are, or if there's nothing to see. Therefore, in just four hours we acted, with a fault characterized as hardly within the League of Mossos d'Esquadra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.51.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.52.0	Counselor, what we see is impunity. And we need to be aware that we are faced with a systemic problem that has to do with what model of police is promoted and served by whom interested. And that's his responsibility. We want a democratic police force serving human rights, and that's why it's a thorough review of the control mechanisms, evaluation and internal sanctioning of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.53.0	Congressman... thank you. The counselor, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.54.0	Thank you. As you may know, one of the four hours of training for the Police of Catalonia, the whole Police of Catalonia, is dedicated to ethics, human rights, fundamental rights, and, therefore, we understand that training is there. Now, sadly, in society we have people who don't fit what they should be or what they've been formed for. And that's why these cases need to be cleared. And these cases, I don't feel sorry for; when we know who the authors are, not a bit of complicity: we'll take them out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government how the Department of Interior faces the events of the past weeks]] [[310-00350/12]] The next question is how the Department of the Interior faces the events of the past weeks. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.56.0	Institutional and police racism, restriction of the right to protest, political persecution of social movements, preventive identifications, police brutality to the ARRO and Brimo, rubber balls, foam, Taser, carousel... Counselor, we have a problem, and the first step to solve it is to recognize that we have a problem: at the Mossos d'Esquadra, with the police model, with the security model. Yesterday, did you, the Executive Board, talk more about tweeting, each other, to social networks, asking for responsibilities? It's been a long time since they've known a lot of cases. It's not winged cases, it's a structural fact. They have a great responsibility. You have it, Counselor. It's the president's. The vice president has it. And the president, today, told us that before any racist aggression there would be a firm and radical condemnation. He said it about a minute ago. We ask you a question; we ask you a very clear question, Mr. Counsellor. Will the six agents involved in the racist aggression of the Bages suspend themselves and work, or will they continue to foster an unjustifiable climate of impunity and promote corporatism? Mr. Arasa was not only introduced to a select process; he was awarded for his professional career. Mr. Buch, act automatically.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.57.0	To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.58.0	Thank you. Member of Parliament, if I have who the author is, who are the authors, who are the cover-ups... I, at this time, who I have the names and surnames, will demand the immediate expulsion of the body. When I have the names of the authors. And if anyone is, somehow, covering up these facts. I'll ask, I'll demand the immediate expulsion of the body. When I have the names of the authors. And that, right now, can only be said by a judge of Manresa. But I don't have to. Not a bit of complicity with racism, xenophobia, or fascism. And my career in public service is good for me. All these years of work in front of public institutions endorse what I'm saying. The one with the names on it, I'm gonna demand the immediate expulsion of these people's bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.59.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.60.0	Counselor, there are six agents investigated in the case of racist aggression in Bages. You, according to the internal rules, can suspend them from work. If they don't, it's because they don't want to. And we'll ask them again: Will they do it immediately? Will they do it now? Will they be intolerable with racist attitudes within the Squad's Mosso Cos or will they continue to promote corporatism, continue to promote impunity before these cases that are absolutely unjustifiable? Mr. Buch, they have a hard problem, and the first step to solving this problem is to recognize that they have it. Do me a favor and do me a favor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.61.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.62.0	...the syndic of Greuges.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.63.0	...time is running out. Thank you. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.64.0	When there's a fact that doesn't fit a police protocol, obviously, it does. And here's where the problem is, and it's got to be recognized, and I'm recognizing it four hours after listening to the audio for the first time on behalf of the Squad's body. First. Next. You condemn six people, directly, without knowing if they're authors, if they're accomplices or if they just weren't there. Is that fair for you? Is this the justice the police demand? And for the citizenry, too, will it require the same? Without having a fair trial, without knowing who are the material authors of some illegal facts, some tiring facts? You're acting like this? Are you power to execute, power to legislate and power to judge? Is everything self-named? I say it again: when I have the names of the authors, and of the coverts, if there are, I will demand the immediate expulsion of the body. When I get the names. But now I understand that there are six people who are being investigated and who don't know if they are involved or if there are people who weren't there. So, what did I do? Preventive measure characterized as a difficult, withdrawal of the service they are lending, and are not in the street. These people won't be in the street. They'll be at offices, right now, until we have who the authors are. And when they do, the authors will be, I repeat, expelled from the body, as they deserve, because they curse the good name of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Because, because a democratic society works, there has to be trust between society and the police. And made up like the ones we've been living...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.65.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.66.0	...that we have to act very severely.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.67.0	...counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions of the mountain communities]] [[310-00345/12]] The next question is about the performances in the mountain regions. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Imma Gallardo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.68.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Honourable Councillor Calvet, the mountain regions include the Aran Valley, the Upper Ribagorça, the Pallars Justà, the Pallars Sobirá, the Alt Urgell, the Solsonès, the Berguedà, the Cerdanya, the Ripollès and the Garrotxa. You know them well. They are fast-paced, very high-mountains and strong-stretches, and there are no important rivers. The winters, very cold, often with snow; the summers, theirs. Its inhabitants have traditionally lived from pagesia or from working in the woods, but it has been decades since most of them have seen tourism or small industries. The towns are used to being small and are located in their majority in the valleys. The network makes communication very difficult; the reels are used to being narrow and forcefully revolted. We are from the most few towns in Catalonia. Factors such as aging, adding to bad communications, both terrestrial and digital, are leading to the depopulation of many of our peoples. Despite this panorama, which could have been very dark, there are people who live there all year; people who we have sorted out these rights to make it our life plan. And the most hopeful thing is that, if you invest more in communications and telecommunications, it can become the life project of many other people who want to. Because we want to continue living there, because he has lived with a great quality of life. And if something positive has left us with this pandemic of so much disaster, it is precisely the recognition that in some parts of the territory the quality of life is very different: for what makes contact with nature, the quality of the air, the veinatge, the tranquillity. A territory that must be full of opportunities, but which, in order to be so, needs much more support, to make it easier for more families to settle down. Because, counselor, there are structural needs, such as the maintenance of communication lives that are most affected by the annual snows or frosts, but also to connect more and better the different valleys, allow the connection of the Pyrenees as a unit. To the optical fiber band. Therefore, we need to work more intensively for territorial rebalancing. I want to share a reflection of a good palarous companion, who says that no resident of the Pyrenees has ever complained about the great reversals of line 9 of the metro. I think so. Counselor, the investments in access to the nucleus, in the mountain stations, in the maintenance and better in the security of our Pirinian roads, are now more necessary than ever so that this territory returns to bat well alive. Counselor, who are the activities of the Department of Lands and Sustainability for what it does to mountain communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.70.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors..., pardons, councillors, councillors, deputies... Mrs. MP, therefore, many thanks for this question about the mountain policies of the Department of Territories. To the Department of Territories we are very aware of the territorial singularities of the country that you described now. In the case of the eve of the High Pyrenees and the Aran, I had the opportunity to visit him, visit the Pallars Sobirá, and Sort and Rialp, therefore, this diluns. And I noticed once more these singularities. And from the Directorate-General for Policies of Muntanya and Litoral, which is attached to the Department of Territory and Sustainability, we have various actions that I would like to detail. Four types of shares. You have spoken specifically about access to the population cluster and I want to comment on it, I want to explain to you that, effectively, the development of the more than a thousand population clusters of mountain communities under this accessibility, this is a key factor. And I'd like to announce that on the next few days you'll be calling a line of help to the local councils of the two mountain communities, with a total import of 2.5_million euros, to continue with the policies of access to the population cluster. Also help with the snow cleaning and winter maintenance of these same accesses. Also, in this area, we will call a line of help for 300,000 euros. Acions de l'IDAPA, Institute for the Development of the Alt Pirineu and Aran, which, as you know, does a great job of interlocution, both with public agents and with private ones. Some of the most recent are the Alt Pirineu and Aran Local Product Working Group, which also joins the Habitat Policy Working Group, which is very specific in these mountain clusters. Also the Taula de Camins de l'Alt Pirineu and Aran and the Taula de Cultura y Patrimoni. And the different aids that the institute allocates to public and private agents of the territory amount to a xifra of €650,000. And actions – you were not your import – at mountain stations. In this quarter there is a lot of work to do, because they are one of the main engines of economic development, both in the winter season and every time during the rest of the year. We're talking about every euro invested in mountain stations generating around 5,3_euros. Finally, he also wanted to take advantage of the fact that the official newspaper approved the call for aid to entities in the third environmental sector, which on many occasions also act on mountain regions. Rural land, urban world, mountain, flat, coast..., a country_one country, a diverse country...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.71.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.72.0	...the attention to mountain areas deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.73.0	Time's up. [[Ask the Government about aid to industry]] [[310-00346/12]] Let us now turn to the next question, which is about aid to industry. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning. It has already been mentioned in the previous questions about the heavy impact of this pandemic that we are patenting, humanly, healthly and socially. I'll talk, I'll focus on the question to the councilwoman on economic issues. It has affected and is affecting trade and tourism, it has come to paralyze it. But it is also affecting the industrial sector. The industrial sector is very important in our country's economy. In fact, Catalonia is an industrial base country, which has participated and enjoyed the different technological revolutions or industrial revolutions, from the 18th to the 19th century to the 20th century, and what it sees: the fourth industrial revolution. It has a very significant industrial GDP, close to 20_per_cent, in some moments it has surpassed it. It is a clear indicator that it is a solid sector, which generates jobs, as we have always said, more resilient, stable, qualified and remunerated. And it's a tractor sector, multiplier of the economy; it creates the network around it. As I said earlier, from the Junts Group for Catalonia we are concerned about this impact of the pandemic on this sector of the economy so special for our country. And we are also aware of the Councilwoman's and her department's commitment, which she has directed, as she has expressed, in the programs she has already presented to us and the commitment, therefore, to this revolution of Industry 4.0. At these times, we are also concerned about what can happen in the future; in the future in the sector, also in the industrial sector, in the automotive sector, a sector that also acts in the industrial sector as a diversifying and deconcentrating element of economic activity. It is therefore essential to take appropriate measures at these times to guarantee these jobs and these sectors, which have a presence in the future and which continue to be drivers of the economy. He will advise, what his department has done at the length of these months to ensure the continuity of the industrial ecosystem of Catalonia. And, second of all, what is the value of the automotive support platform presented this week by the Spanish Government; how the Catalan industry can benefit directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.75.0	To answer the question, has the word "Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.76.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, we are an industrial country, with more than 20_percent of industrial GDP, integrated mainly by small and medium-sized enterprises, very diversified – there is no sector that exceeds 15_percent – and very internationalised. We will also lead the foreign industrial investment in the Spanish State. And obviously, as such, we are exposed to all geopolitical and geostrategic conditions; we are also affected by the emergence of the new technologies – blockchain, big data, internet of things... –, all these new technologies that will allow us to improve processes, be more competitive, avoid costs and also change relationships between customers, suppliers and producers. And, obviously, the last of the exhibitions that transforms it is the Covid. What have we done since the department? So there are measures aimed at this transformation, this transformation to industry 4.0, in the Proacció program, which has already exhausted its presuppositional endowment. We also present sectoral transformation measures, such as the Auto plan, also pending presuppositional endowment. And we're also working to mitigate the Covid effects by ensuring that work places survive and avoiding the destruction of fabric produced with this call of more than 10_million euros that we make. We are not financing the business result accounts; we are financing, helping to finance, the structural expenses that allow them to continue and continue working. With respect to the measures announced for the Spanish government of the Automotive platform, so, well, there are many fears that they speak of present, perhaps little addressed to this strategy of future. He also talks more about finance than no direct help. But let's celebrate that there are these kinds of initiatives. This week, speaking to the minister, we guarantee that we will have a table of work so as to territorialize the aid. Some autonomous communities also presented a whole set of work aimed at automotive. And we hope, therefore, that this will come to an end in the sense that it gave, of territorializing and compensating above all those territories that have strategies already defined as our own. We are clear that we need to ensure the survival of businesses now, with help now, but above all we need to guarantee their future, and in this sense to ensure that they remain competitive by helping them to show that they can also transform their strategy and adapt them to this new context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about taking advantage of the exclusion of emerging technologies from the economic and social point of view]] [[310-00347/12]] The next question is about taking advantage of the exclusion of emerging technologies from the economic and social point of view. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.78.0	Good morning, President Torrent, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies. In this sense, from Junts per Catalunya we want to ask the councillor, in the framework of these emerging policies, the project that was made public yesterday, the financing that will bind the European Commission, the project of the 5G Corridor of the Mediterranean. This project, if we don't have it wrong, has its origin in the 5G strategy of Catalonia that the Government of Catalonia approved in 2019. I also remember that, in the framework of these emerging policies, these digital policies that the Government of the Generalitat has promoted..., we also want to remember as Minister Borrell, of the Government of President Pedro Sánchez, tried to boycott this project, and now it turns out, therefore, that it is in the framework of the European Commission that the same project that Spain and its Government wanted to boycott for Catalonia, so now it is finance. Therefore, we in this series of policies are absolutely in favour. And what we wanted to ask, from the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, was who are their practical consequences; that is, who are the consequences for the territory, for the impact on the fabric of production, on this new model of circular economy, on the transformation of occupation, and also, very directly, respect its impact on sustainable mobility. Honestly, I think this project that was funded yesterday... isn't quite aware of the Catalan society of revolution and the progress that it supposes. And I am not referring to a technological progress; I am referring to a progress for people, for sustainability, for territorial balance, for this country of the people we defend, the object of which is not technology but that it is people. And, in fact, also in the wake of these emerging policies, Francina Alsina, a couple of days ago..., there was news of a reflection that made, that she is the president, as you know, of the Talula d'Entitats del Tercer Social de Catalunya, which claimed that access to the Internet is recognized as a fundamental right. And it's that the recognition of this right of Internet access as a phonetic right, or projects like the Mediterranean 5G corridor, or a public optical fiber network... are social policies, which we've defended since the first day. Why? Because they are political that condition the equal opportunity and progress of the citizens and the progress of Catalonia. Therefore, counselor, we ask you for the appreciation of the grant of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, this is actually a government that has been working since then as its first priority to save lives, and now we are saving or trying to save the economy. And I think that this project, as well as the decision that Mobile is staying in Catalonia, or as well as the project of the underwater cable, or the emergence contract of optical fiber works, to be able to get it to all the territories of our country, are projects that highlight this government's willingness in this economic recovery, so necessary at these times. The decision of this project in concrete terms is, in fact, the year 2019, in the case of the approval of the 5G strategy of Catalonia, which the Government approved, and that one of the first decisions we took was that we would apply for this project. We seemed to be carrying so many years waiting for the Mediterranean railway corridor..., which, look at you, will arrive before the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean, a project that in the area of the European Union is expected that in these next five years, by 2025, for example, the 5G generates around 2,3_million jobs. And from these we want a good staple to be in our country, because that means helping in this economic recovery. Giving work to our citizens, giving work opportunities to our citizens is obviously the best social policy we can do in our country. In fact, governments, beyond the public job offers we can make, do not create direct jobs. But we can help build ecosystems of work opportunities, ecosystems, in this case, as is the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean and other infrastructures, which allow to generate digital economy, economy of the 21st century. We have been an industrial country – Mrs Chacón has explained it very well – and now we also need to be a digital country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.81.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about resources to tackle the economic and social crisis]] [[310-00353/12]] The next question is about the resources to deal with the economic and social crisis and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Marc Sanglas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.82.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies... Vice President, the government has been in the first months facing the health crisis that there was respect for the Covid and we find ourselves, as one of the consequences, that this health crisis, humanity has ultimately generated a context of social and economic crisis. We believe that the way to solve this crisis is from the injection of public resources, as the European Commission has done with a fund..., creating a fund of €750,000_million, which will make resources available to fight this crisis. The Spanish Government has announced a contribution of €16,000_million, which we believe is insufficient. We believe that we can look at these contributions as investments, not as expenditure, and therefore believe that it is important. In 2008 we suffered another crisis that also left us some consequences of all folded. He taught us that the clippings aren't used to reverse crises, that this neoliberal model doesn't help us. Moreover, the result of this crisis, the success of the governments, the governments of the People's Party, was to shut down and turn on public administrations, starting with the same assemblies. We think it's time to end these ties. It is time to end this legislation that does not allow the assemblies, which generate a surplus of 3,000_million euros per year, to have the capacity to generate public policies. We believe that this and the rule of spending and also the expense relief, the deficit relief that it generates..., which forces the Government of the Generality to be limited in its ability to act, must be eliminated. We believe that it is time to give freedom to the assemblies to use these surpluses. We believe that this is the situation in which we find ourselves and that we have to get the assemblies to have this freedom of action because, if not, otherwise it would be... Mr. Counselor, Mr. Vice President, as you think..., who do you think are the actions that the Government of the Generality has to take to get these resources generated by the Catalan society..., to be able to allocate them to deal with this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.84.0	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member, in fact, we are faced with a very clear need, which is the need to rebuild economically and socially this country and this society, after a pandemic that has left us more than twelve thousand dead in Catalonia, an irreparable human pain, but also some economic and social consequences that we are facing with all resources and with all capabilities or we will end up with a crisis that will generate more inequality, it will rain upon us and we are determined not to allow it. In this sense, there are good news. The European Commission's commitment to the creation of a reactivation plan of €750,000_million, in good part through transfers and not loans, is an advance in the right direction, but we also see that there have been inconcretions, slowness and many times the decisions are not taken at the right speed. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers approved the Covid Fund for autonomous communities, which we had been complaining about, and which has an import of €16,000_million. As we have expanded from the toughest days of the pandemic, we have seen how they have changed the distribution criteria of this source. Sanitary criteria have been abandoned and the focus has been on the population. This will make – and we are making the latest estimates – Catalonia will receive fewer resources than the first initial estimates and we will be around €3,200_million. In any case, with initial resources, it was also insufficient. We need this fund to be extended to 25,000_millions only to meet the needs of the suppository. But there are other decisions to be made – and you have made one very clear –: the assemblies of our country have hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros in bank accounts that cannot be touched by a rule of spending and the impossibility of using the romants of previous exercises. And these moneys have to be put in the company's service, they have to be put in the reconstruction service. Therefore, it is essential. And a third complaint. This will be a very big year of impact on public finances and, therefore, we need to know already who is the new deficit target that establishes the State for autonomous communities, for the Generality of Catalonia. And we ask that this be '1_per_cent, so that we can face the planning. Before Mr.Iceta asked us how much we are going to education; so look, we can't know it right now, because we don't know how many resources we have. And that's inadmissible. And basically we need to focus on reconstruction because, according to Joan Fuster, "all reconstruction that we do not have will be made against us and against us means more inequality, poorer and less industrialization of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.85.0	Thank you, Vice President. Your time's up. [[Ask the Government about inequalities and social discrimination]] [[310-00354/12]] The next question is about inequalities and social discrimination and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.86.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning, deputies, deputies... We are still in a pandemic that has brought forth inequalities and before the speeches of hate, we have seen a lot of migrants supporting, helping to sustain life in a world that is up to date and in a confined world. But this pandemic has also made it clear that so many people have lost their jobs, an irregular job due to its irregular condition. The Spanish government says that no one will be left behind and that we will get out of this together, but because you do this, because you can complete this maximum, there is an indispensable step, that is the regularization of more than 600,000 people that there is all of the state right now in an irregular situation. Therefore, we strongly demand this regularization. But while we have to advance in all those we have and there is much work to do and we see it every day in the street. Therefore, I take advantage to condemn the events that took place at the Prize and also racist harassment by an agent of the Squad Coast. By the way, not a single case, but what's a single case is the cases that end up in the light. In this sense, and from this parliamentary group, we proposed on March 5 in this chamber the creation of a study commission to study structural racism in the management of security in Catalonia. Let's hope that at the very Ple, when he is present, all the groups will vote for it; listening also today to Congressman Carrizosa gives me the feeling that this time they will vote for it. As far as I was concerned, we've got a lot of work to do. These days we've found ourselves in the city. They're not new people in our country. We look again and again at the situation of the timers in Lleida, we follow with the situation of the smallest without family references, and all this indicates that a lot of work will be hot and that synergies will also be warm between departments; synergies, obviously, with the Interior, with departments such as Agriculture, like Greetings, etc. In this sense we also celebrate the package of measures presented by its department in the field of migration for a value of 4,2_million euros and highlighting concretely the line of 1,4_millions in aid to encourage the contracting of workers of the cures, workers of the lar, which is now in an irregular situation. Counselor, how does the department prepare the post-Covid situation in this sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.88.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members... Deputy Wagensberg, you place one of the aspects that we are most concerned with, that we are more concerned with as the department, that we are more concerned with as the government, that it is the reality of invisible inequalities, of those inequalities that are also linked to a situation of discrimination, that of being a city or a citizen of second place. And this happens in this country; it happens in this country in many areas. It has passed to the length of history, because I also believe that it is our responsibility to remember that these phenomena, unfortunately, have passed a long time ago and there is a collection that has historically suffered from it, that is the Gypsy people. It is a reality that we are very concerned about: in what way do we approach those who have various vulnerabilities. And one is linked to their administrative situation, which they consider to be second-class citizens and second-class citizens; that they do not contemplate a reality, which is our lives and our lives, our citizens, in a situation in which in the last few weeks there has been a reality, which is that there is racism, yes, there are situations of racism; there are situations of institutional racism, yes, because the institutions represent the society in which they live, and the compromise has been absolute at the time of being able to deal with it, from the point of view of the law – that is, equality in legal conditions, and that means that they have no sense of having people who, because of their irregular situation, do not have rights – and, after that, of an element that is key, that is to remember a reality that is of Perogrullo: races do not exist. And this, which we all know, we must remember: races do not exist; but racialization does; but racism does; but global racism – from micro-racism to aggression – does. And we are able to be much more self-critical and generate alliances between all and all beyond the differences, or we will not have a society where...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.89.0	Thanks, counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.90.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.91.0	The next question... [[Question to the Government about the health management of the Covid-19]] [[310-00348/12]] ...it's about the Covid-19's health care management. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.92.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Counselor, from the beginning of the pandemic to all the plenarys that my group has celebrated, she has asked questions; ask that they are civic concerns of professionals who are in the street, in the concentration and in the media. You chose not to answer. On the contrary, he has made, of his answers, an announcement of some of the initial claims of the Department of Salvation, many of them well removed from the question that was put to him. I have to say that this has not only happened to my group, it has also happened to the other parliamentary groups. Today, counsel, I would like to give you an opportunity – with all due respect – to do two things in one: answer the question and make an announcement. Perhaps that way the degree of satisfaction will be double. Therefore, counsel, we would like to ask you: why has it been decided to privatise, externalize the follow-up of the Covid-19's affections and contacts at this stage of the descalation for EUR 17.7 million? Why did he award Ferroser if he's a cleaning company? Have you already terminated the contract with Ferroser? And lastly, we want to know what a lot of people are asking: what will be the cost of their mistake for the citizenry?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.94.0	Well, I will gladly answer this question and all that may be in a situation where – as you know – we have faced a huge epidemic on the part of all the workers in the Health Department, as well as those who are dealing with institutional relations and, therefore, answering questions from Members. And, therefore, with the utmost respect, they also demand respect for all the work of these people, who are health workers and health workers as well. Well, in no case have we wanted to outsource a new thing, but at a time of the clau epidemic, important, if we needed to start a follow-up of contacts– that is not a tracking or a complete circuit, but a follow-up of contacts via teleoperators–, we used that company that had the teleoperator contest through 061. Why? Because it was to be created with total urgency, and that's what we've done and that's what they've been working on all these days. Arriving at this point I said we could study alternatives to this contract so we could do it on a more integrated circuit. Just that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.95.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the Member of the European Parliament has the word again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.96.0	So we continue with respect, and the Salut workers have everything, which maybe not tea is their management, counselor. Throughout the pandemic we have suffered a lack of transparency and the evidence of a deep division in the government. Before I asked him, and also with this subject, where Together for Catalonia he asked for explanations and even all his own political group. We'll make a list of what's strange about this contract. Miri, externalizes to the margins of the health system, one of the phone tools to control the possible rebounds; and tells the margin why this service forms part of the primary care follow-up tasks, logically, in coherence and clinical safety. And they are not my words, but the president of the College of Metges, who opposed this, together with many others. People who do tricks don't have any kind of training, we have witnesses. You, Counselor, have rewarded the private with a retribution without parallel to the rest of the autonomous communities. He couldn't stop the private labs in the toughest moments of the pandemic. He has outsourced services close to the primary – to be against Mr. Boi Ruiz's policy, he is not a very good student – and, finally, these days he sets a salary qualified as unfair and classy, and that he does not solve the debt they have with the professionals. In the last plenary you announced 4.5 million for the primary, but it was neglected to say that it was going to 17.7 to Ferrovial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.97.0	To answer again, the counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.98.0	All right, thank you very much. So, with the soul of total transparency that has always existed since the Department of Health, I explained the 4_million_i_mig primary of more – of more – that added to the 2,7_million that we already had established for the summer reinforcements. Summer reinforcements for three_months of primary care, which represented direct professionals for primary care. And let me tell you – and so I explained to all people – that there may have been a failure to explain the whole whole course of what epidemiology is and what we need to do from now on to control this epidemic, to control it to the maximum and to try, therefore, that the health system does not, in the welfare part, have the important impact that it has on the weeks of March and April and that, at the same time, the solution does not pass to make complete confinements to the population. That's why we need public health policies, strong epidemiological vigilance, and we need the reinforcements that Public Health needs in those things that don't bring value to the circuit, such as teleoperator tricks to make only the follow-up of contacts. Therefore, the responsibility continues to be of Public Health, in this case, not of primary, which has an indispensable task in this circuit, which is the detection of cases, obviously, of people with symptoms, and also the first identification...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.99.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about health services]] [[310-00352/12]] The next question is about the health services and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.100.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, we would, therefore, like to delve a little deeper into this topic that you have just spoken about. Why did he really believe that primary care was not able to do this case-tracking job?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.101.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.102.0	None of the Health Department, and less so, has ever said that primary care is not capable of doing a few tasks. There are simply tasks that are of primary attention, there are tasks that are of public salvation and, in this circuit, we must intervene absolutely everyone. And that's what we're working on, that in the next few months we can work on this epidemiological surveillance circuit, where the primary has a big and important role. No one like us will defend the role of primary care also in this epidemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.103.0	To answer that question, the deputy has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.104.0	Look, counselor, always surprise your good words to the primary attention, but your facts always contradict it. Look, no doubt, who was to have been at the bottom of the dog in this follow-up to his decisions was to have been the primary attention. Specialists in families and communities, together with public salvation, will advise. But let's go to the facts; the facts are the following: when you have to make this decision, which has to do this follow-up, you allocate 18_million euros to a private company. Counsel, you have allocated 18_million euros to a private company of neteja, a private company of neteja managed for the brother Junqueras. Here you should give us many explanations of respect. You say you will donate 4_millions, 4_millions_i_mig or 2.2 to reinforce primary care. I should explain more why this opacity in giving this, insulting hard, as you have done, the health system. Because there were alternatives and we'd like to know, these alternatives that you're saying now, how much they'll cost us. You bid 18 million. Now he speaks here that there are alternatives; "alternatives is to terminate a contract that you have already signed. How much will this compensation cost us? It's a number, counselor. How much money will your decisions cost the Catalans? Because it seems, sometimes, that the money to you is cremated. It seems like the agafieu smiles, like the millions, and they run away from their hands, counselor. Donate money to Ferrovial – we just told you this –; donate money to buy cars at the heart of the SEM epidemic, and have the SEM workers very angry; donate money to the WHO regional office, which is certainly closed during the epidemic. All this you have to explain. Mr. Torra said this morning: "Everything changed in Catalonia. No, no, counselor, a few things, unfortunately, have changed and managed it, unfortunately, has not changed. You may want to lower and lower primary care, and if you don't want to, you got it. Or maybe you don't know what you sign and what you license? Or is there a third option, counselor, maybe today, before the city, you could explain the reality to us, why you gave this private company 18_million euros and now you're thinking about it? Look, I want to be very respectful in the management of public money and you... and you haven't been. And that's what the health system workers are doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.105.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.106.0	Thank you, President. I am glad that I welcome your group's applause, but I must say that respect for public money means respect, and above all respect for the management of a health emergency. Because it gives the feeling, as you speak, as if there has been no health emergence. We're still on health emergencies, we'll be there for a few months, and we need to pull out a follow-up of contacts through teleoperators. Why? Because we need the public health people, as you said, working together with the primary people to get to everything. And we have to predict not just how we are today, this week, but what kind of scene we can find in our own months. And, unfortunately, we'd better have a scene of a second wave that could be as big as this first wave that we had. We will work so that it doesn't; we will do everything, so that it doesn't; we will prepare ourselves to the maximum so that it doesn't come; but it can come. The virus we can't control at all. Therefore, we work on this and, scrupulously, with all respect for public money. At that time, and you put it in the situation of the end of April, where the government's plan for decontainment to the principles of May is planned, where you have to pull this off. Why? On the 13th of April the Spanish State works for people working for businesses, plans a decontainment based on Holy Week calendars and we have the obligation – the obligation – to be absolutely prepared. I don't want to play with people's lives and, therefore, we need to get these teleoperators in gear. What else can we do? We'll look at it. And I said we'd study every possible alternative. At that time, in the emergence, it was absolutely essential to use the people who were already there at that time and who, therefore, could form them as a follow-up to contacts. And, all that, with the lead paper from the mayor's office on case detection...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.107.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.108.0	...to test PCR.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.109.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the situation of education]] [[310-00351/12]] The last question is about the situation of education, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.110.0	Good morning, Mr. Counselor. You decreed that no student could suspend the course for the third quarter, but I am very afraid that the educational community has indeed suspended it from you, because with its plan of reopening centers it has managed to put itself against everyone. And since he doesn't approve in June, let's hope he can do it in September. You announced the hiring of thousands of teachers, without specifying the figure, and then Mrs. Budó said at the press conference that more than nine_ thousand. Counselor, can you confirm that you are going to hire more than nine thousand teachers, as Mrs. Budó said? And I also wanted to ask you if the teachers and the other staff who are going to be with the students are going to have quick tests to check that the pandemic does not overflow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.111.0	To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.112.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, I have not announced a concrete name for a teacher's contract or other teaching staff, because in order to announce it I have to make some decisions, and we are working at these times with the directions of the centres, on the conditions of the course coming. That's for a song. And for other songs, I can also assure you that these decisions taken for the coming course have two clear intentions: the maximum normality possible and the maximum presence possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.113.0	Thank you, Counselor. And to answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.114.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...it was one of Mrs. Budó's usual kick guesses, since we had managed to get him to tell us a figure. Turns out it's not worth it now. But since there's no way that you can make the figure or the cost or where you're going to get the money to pay for it, it gives the impression that it's more of a marketing campaign than a real plan; a campaign to try to divert the anger of the educational community and especially of families, who fear that their children may be falling behind in their studies. And I recognize that all the blame is not yours, because from the Government of Spain the regulation of bars, discos, football and even bulls has been decided by conscience, but in education everything has been bandits. It is clear that Mrs Celaá has given up her duties, but you seem to want to follow her lead. No one in your department has wanted to sign the reopening of the centers and it has had to be signed by the directors, with the fear that all responsibility will fall on them. Look, it has been a constant of all these months that both teachers and families have felt unattended, and that their statements and those of Mrs Celaá have served to create more discomfort than tranquillity. Education is fundamental, and you have to ensure quality and equal education. What will you do to ensure that all students have computer and internet access? Or to avoid the closure of children's schools? And to ensure the safety of its citizens, we claim that what you have to do is test all the teachers and all the staff who will be in contact with the students to ensure protection, so that families can safely take their children to the schools. We will do it in Andalusia and ask you to do it here too, in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Again, the word has the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.116.0	Thank you, President. MP, look, if any educational authority at this time has demonstrated its inefficiency, it is that of Andalusia, which has closed all the schools. He hasn't opened them and offered no solution to the families. But it's the same, huh? Because we don't have to compare ourselves to Andalusia. We compare ourselves with the whole European education system, and the decisions we have taken are in line with most of the European education system. Citizens is a political party that I respect, but it is not health authority. It's not. What are we gonna do? The one who tells us the health authority, not the one who tells us Ciutadans. Because it is the health authority that will mark the guarantee of something that is obvious: the school is a safe space – the school is a safe space. And I'm going back to saying, school is a safe space for students – it's a safe space for students. It's the safest place they have students after their home, it's their second home, it's their second family, and it's the safest place they have. And this is the initial premise of the coming course. So, what health measures will we take? The authorities tell us. How do we execute them? How we negotiate them with the Department's Labour Health Committee. We'll do it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.117.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage Agency]] [[202-00036/12]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the Environment and Sustainability Commission's opinion on the proposal for a law creating the Natural Heritage Agency. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is Mr Narcis Clara, who has been appointed by the rapporteur. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.118.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, members of the Government and Parliament, today is the first plenary in which I intervene face-to-face since Parliament's face-to-face activities were suspended because of the Covid-19. From the outset, I want to address all those people who have lost a relative, a friend or a close person: my deepest condolences to all of them, as well as wishing a full recovery to all those who are still affected by the disease. There are many people who have made it possible for health centres to deal with thousands of ills, exposing their salvation to a very high risk. All of them, my thanks and gratitude. The condition of rapporteur Member implies my neutrality in this intervention, and more so in a law which, most likely, will not enjoy unanimity. As a result, I'm just going to give you a brief summary of the work of the ponència. I think knowing who the job plan of a bill of law is may be of interest to the citizen who follows us. Briefly and synthetically, the work has developed in six stages: U, at the end of September 2018 the initiative is published and for three months the expected delays to the Inician Plenary will be made. Two, on April 10, 2019, I held the plenary session with the debate to the full and began the session of appearances, which widened until July 30. A total of thirty-two respondents were involved. Three, after various prorogations, and until mid-October, parliamentary groups presented their reviews – for a total of 164. Four, the parliamentary groups negotiated and negotiated for approximately four months, those points were crazy to reach an agreement. Five, on the 26th of February, the opinion to the Environment and Sustainability Commission was adopted, and the groups kept alive those ideas that they thought were appropriate. Yes, the next stage is that of today, with the vote on the opinion and the points that are kept alive. In summary, more than a year between the debate on the whole and the vote on the opinion in plenary. Appearances will include such different areas as agricultural unions, agricultural cooperatives, official colleges, representatives of natural parks, forest owners, the third environmental sector, representative bodies of the local world, technology centres, universities, research centres and environmental consultants. Soc de l'opinion– I hope, in this case, that it is shared by the rest of the speakers– that the very thorough and diverse tria as to enable us to capture the state of the question of different perspectives. Throughout this process I would like to thank the participation of each of the participants. The list is as follows: u, Agricultural Association of Young Farmers; two, Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia; three, Forest Consortiums of Catalonia; four, representation of the presidents of the natural parks; five, Mr. Marià Martí, Managing Director of the Consortium of the Natural Park of Serra de Collserola; six, the College of Engineering Techniques and Forestry of Catalonia; set, the Official College of Engineering Agronomists of Catalonia; eight, the Official College of Forest Engineers of Catalonia; nine, the College of Ambientòlegs of Catalonia; god, the College of Biòlegs of Catalonia; eleven, the Catalan Federation of Forest Owners Associations; dotze, Conservation. Cat; Tretze, Catalonia's Alternative Intersyndical Candidature Autonomous of Catalonia's Workers; Fourteen, Pages Union; Fifteen, Llorenç Planagumà, Technical Coordinator of the Centre for Territorial Sustainability; Setze, Catalan Association of Environmental Education; Dissert, Obrador of the Third Environmental Sector of Catalonia; Divuit, Xarxa for the Conservation of Nature; Dinou, Catalonia's La Pedrera Foundation; Vint, Catalan Association of Municipalities and Comarques; Vint-i-u, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia; Vint-i-dos, Josep Germain, National University of Catalonia's Natural Heritage Platform; Vint-i-i-Tres, Centre de Recherche Écológique, Joanquist-IapplicationsForestals; Vint-i-i-i-Clivisionals; Vit-i-Truth, University of Catalonia's University, Mart-Truth, University of Catalonia's Natural Heritage I wanted to greet them personally here in the plenary to all of them, in the plenary of Parliament, but the safety standards in the pandemic – for another, absolutely necessary band – have not made it possible. To all of them, thank you very much for the effort and time they devoted to it. Already in the most internal sphere, thank the work and collaboration of the reader, the Antonio Bayona, Mr. Antoni Bayona, and of the managers of the ponència, Mrs. Pains Balague and Mrs. Laia Grau, and of the linguistic advisor, Mr. Joan Fibla, who with their knowledge and dedication have made it possible for the work to be carried out in an orderly and completely normal manner. Finally, I believe that the Members who participated in the debate should share with me who worked hard, intensive and perseverance, especially at the time of negotiation and agreement. That's right, sometimes successfully and sometimes without. I also want to thank them for the cooperation they have given at all times for the normal development of the ponència. In particular, for example, for its support, agility and ready time to agree on the timing of the sessions of the ponència. I refer to Francisco Domínguez, of the Ciutadans Group; Ferran Civit, of the Republic Group; Jordi Terrades, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress; Lucas Silvano Ferro, of the Catalonian Group in Comú Puem, and the National Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.119.0	Thank you, rapporteur. They now return to parliamentary groups that have reserved papers for this plenary, for a maximum of fifteen minutes, the groups, and seven minutes and a half, the subgroups. In the first place, he has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, and to defend his views, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.120.0	This law already comes from the last legislature, and since then the primary sector has shown strong resistance from the agrarian, forestry and technical part, and now, lately, municipalist resistances are being added. But this bill, why did the Government not introduce it as a bill? A proposal is a perfectly legitimate parliamentary tool, but a draft law offers more guarantees, opinions are drafted, and ensures more participation, among other advantages; but it is somewhat slower and needs more consensus. And here I would like to highlight the first mistake: confusing the parliamentary consensus, a certain number of Members who can add a majority, with the consensus of the territory. And now it turns out that their dwarfs have grown and we have a real problem of consensus, and the agency is not well received by a large part of the territory and sectors. But are there problems with the management of the natural environment? Of course it is; there are serious problems. There has been very poor historical management and there have been many bandages. Many organizational bets and many improvisations have been made. The natural heritage policy in Catalonia has historically been underfunded, and in the last twenty-five or thirty years the Administration has not had the necessary integrity or continuity. Teams have been divided between different departments, joined again, recombined; priorities have been changed... In addition to loss of knowledge opportunities and team experience, these erratic policies have consumed many resources and energies, and worst of all: there is no logical or technical explanation for these successive changes. And of course, the agency considers it another change in this erratic direction. It is clear that there must be stability in the environmental administration. It is clear that there is not a sufficient budget. And it is even more evident that natural heritage is not a priority for this Government or for previous ones. And what has Citizens done with this bill? Well, even though an agency is not a tool that we consider useful or much less indispensable for developing ambitious environmental policies, even though it is not our model, from the very beginning we have worked in the line of making improvements, out of responsibility. From the time of the appearances, thanks to the group of Citizens, during the presentation they have been able to have collective voices like the schools of engineers of the agroforestry branch, which are four professions: agronomists, forestry and technical agricultural and forestry engineers; the agricultural cooperatives, Asaja, the Institut del Suro, Boscat, the representation of the forest owners, the CREAF, of the branch of research. Although it must be regretted that the attendance of the Institut de Sant Isidre and the Rural Agents was rejected. A few voices that have been silenced without knowing exactly why. Another thing we have done is listen, collect proposals, submit amendments. More than seventy amendments of the hundred and peaks that the rapporteur has commented are from the Citizens' Group. And negotiate the opinion, without success. Because this is where the problem really is. We've come this far. With all the tranquillity of the world, of the more than seventy amendments, only a dozen have been incorporated into the final text. The rest of the amendments, which were largely tabled by the representatives, have been rejected. And these amendments that have been rejected, that remain alive, what did they bring? Well, I will explain a very significant group of amendments, which have to do with the management board and the representativeness of the sector, and also with the chairs. We start from an original text with an executive board of twenty-eight people, very large, not agile, not operational, and with a very obvious overrepresentation of environmentalist entities. The amendments, the set of amendments that speak about this section, of Citizens, therefore, presents a different structure: a smaller board of directors, of about twelve people, more operational, with representatives of the administration in a multi-departmental way – Territory, Agriculture, Interior, by fire, and other departments – and then two councils of participation: social, with twenty people, and scientific and technical. Here were the ecological entities, local and supramunicipal administrations, agricultural representation, trade unions, cooperatives, businesses, professional fishing, hunting – the great forgotten – and forest representation. And in the scientific council: professional colleges, universities, research centers and experts. We did not leave everything in the hands of a future regulation, but we were already asking for a minimum of representation. And in the end, what will be approved? So what the four proposers of this proposal have agreed: a board of directors of nineteen people, which is very large, with only five representatives from the primary sector. And then two commissions: social, with thirty members, and scientific commission, with twenty-five members, but the content and members of these commissions are not defined. They are undefined some... – thirty plus twenty-five... – so, fifty_and_five people without defining who they are, who they are going to be. The lack of concreteness and the lack of representativeness of the primary sector are evident. And now, today, I have just read in the press before it comes that future decrees law are announced that will already amend a text that has not yet been approved. A few more chairs, or a few more seats, are guaranteed. But these..., all this is just a group of amendments, and I am not going to explain the seventy, much less, but I am going to explain why we cannot support this law. I have a decalogue of reasons to vote against this law. A first reason is that the agency is not necessary. What can an agency do that can't make an apartment? This question was asked to all the attendees who came to the paper, and none was able to say a clear and unequivocal satisfactory answer. Conclusion: There is nothing the agency can do that cannot do in the same way a department to use or a general address, or whatever we consider. Second reason. The agency does not have the necessary representativeness. I have commented earlier: without a balanced representation of all sectors operating in the territory, the gap between the agency and the rural world will continue to widen. Third reason: the scope of action is not specified, it is not precisely defined. Action is envisaged in protected areas, but the possibility of action in a green infrastructure, which is not exactly defined, is open, and this generates obvious legal uncertainty, a lack of defence of the citizenry in the face of future actions or decisions of the agency. A fourth reason why we cannot vote in favour. The agency does not really promote the sustainability of the environment. I am not going to get tired of explaining this, because I am talking about environmental sustainability, but I am also talking about economic and social sustainability. The serious problem of abandonment of agricultural activity, forestry activity or grazing is not addressed. The development of people and of professional activity in rural areas, which is economic sustainability, must be compatible, 100_per_cent, with the improvement and conservation of the natural environment, which would be environmental sustainability. Either we have people living in rural areas – in the primary sector, but also in other sectors – and we make it possible to live in the environment, or this is not going to work. People don't want to be Yellowstone's Yogi Bear, they want to earn a living with their work, and it's hard enough not to have their opinion and what they're interested in and what they're not interested in. And he also wants to preserve his environment, it's obvious. The solution is not to create a new administrative structure. If the government wants to prioritize environmental policies, it has the tools, it could if it wanted to, but it doesn't want to. Reason number five. For the negative impact on the primary sector. The primary sector, during the health crisis, has been exemplary. The production and distribution chain has been maintained and there has been no case of food shortages. I take this opportunity to thank you publicly. Farmers, farmers, forestry, fishermen, agronomists, technicians, thanks to all, because there are really more visible sectors that, it is evident the work they have done, but we all have a vice that is: we eat every day, and if it is three or four times, better. I mean, thanks to the whole sector for the work they've done these three months. If the agency doesn't count on this sector, we're not doing well. This agency has an impact on the primary sector that has not been evaluated. The impact on rural development, on depopulation, on the abandonment of agricultural and forestry farms has not been assessed. And, at home I've always been told that rehearsals, with soda. So, if we don't evaluate this impact, wrong. Reason number 6 for not supporting this agency. The agency worsens the relationship between the Departments of Agriculture and Territory. And if we neglect, he will also enter here Interior, for the topic of fire management. The management of the natural environment must properly integrate all the departments involved and there is at present a clear lack of coordination which reduces the capacity for the management of the territory. And if not, ask any forest manager. And the agency does not plan to improve this coordination. I wish I was wrong, but I don't see it coming. Reason number 7. The agency does not stop the loss of biodiversity. Perhaps that is why the word of the title has fallen, it is no longer called « Natural Heritage i of Biodiversity. Catalonia has an exceptional natural heritage, which is the result of the work of people living in this natural and agroforestry environment. Generation after generation. The loss of biodiversity is not due to overexploitation of forests or crop fields. The loss of biodiversity comes precisely from the abandonment of the rural world, the reduction of pasture areas, of cultivated area, the reduction of the mosaic landscape, which avoids..., reduces the agroforestry transition areas. And the uncontrolled increase in unmanaged forest masses. It is urgent to tackle the loss of biodiversity, but excluding managers and professionals in the sector is not the right way. Reason number 8. The agency does not prevent large forest fires. In other words, large forest fires are one of the greatest risks facing our natural heritage today. And in short, what is a great forest fire? For it is a fire with so much calorific power, because of the large amount of fuel accumulated, that extinction is practically impossible. Therefore, there is a need to increase prevention and sustainable forest management, which is the only current preventive tool in the face of this phenomenon of large forest fires, which are not just from here, are a more widespread problem. And being such an important problem, how is it that the perfect coordination between the agency, Agriculture and the Interior is not foreseen? Reason number nine. Lack of clarity of funding. In environmental policies, I said earlier, there is historical underfunding. Resources have been cut to the management of natural parks and other protection figures. And, so far, that capacity that has been so much talked about during the presentation, to raise funds and raise resources is unknown. It is only clear that they are going to manage the 50_per_cent CO2 tax fund, without knowing how much this amount is going to rise, nor the evolution in time, of this tax. And of European funds, and of budgets of the Generalitat. Anyway, nothing that can't be done from a department or general address, as I said before. And reason number 10. There is no territorial or sectoral consensus. Lately, we have all seen the escalation of mobilizations, manifests, positions contrary to the agency, or, at least, contrary to the agency as proposed. Town halls, more than forty; county councils, seven; the Diputació de Lleida; associations of forest owners; Boscat - the consortium; forestry and agricultural entities, Institut Sant Isidre, Asaja, cooperatives; professional colleges; ADFs..., communities of regents, hunters and fishers. But also entities more external to the agricultural sector, which is Pimec, Foment del Treball, les cammbres, Arca – related to rural development –, l'Institut del Suro, l'ICEA, the campsites..., and I am sure that I have left, because there are more than 200. I'm sorry, the entities that I didn't mention, because they didn't fit me all; the list is quite long and varied. Interestingly, much of this resistance comes from the very parties that are proposing this law, d'Esquerra, PDECAT and Socialists. But they all come from the rural environment and agroforestry, which they know very well. I can understand that Councillor Calvet and, therefore, this Junts Parliamentary Group wants to create this agency at all costs. It's a project that goes to him... a political prestige, despite the internal oppositions of his mayors and governors. You have to get this law passed, but why is it defended by Councillor Jordà i Esquerra Republicana, against the sector to which you owe it, the primary sector, against many of your own, in order not to win anything? In this battle it is clear who has won the Calvet-Jordà pulse; it is clear that has won it Calvet. And what is already of trachea and mocador is the position of Socialists. The Socialist Group in the Diputació de Lleida tabled a motion against the agency and won it, with the support of Esquerra and Junts. Are not Members of Parliament speaking with their governors and mayors? Is something not being done right? In addition, we had never seen Mr Calvet travel through the mountain areas as well as lately, offering consensus and support and perhaps some chairs. And so little to Mrs. Jordà, she's not getting very well standing in all this. And finally, I just want to say that we are not going to support the agency, simply because we can never support a political structure that you manage very well, which is the chiringuito and which we can now also call the "placement agency". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.122.0	President, Councillor, Members and Members, I would like to begin this intervention by reproducing a reflection that I listened to a week ago, two days ago, to the Secretary of State for the Environment, the Government of Spain, Mr. Hugo Morán, at a conference that he delivered, which he said..., he seemed to me... – and as we were already about to bring to the House this law – I seemed to have reproducing it, didn't I? He claimed that we humans are part of nature, but we are not the masters of nature, we are not the owners of nature. We have to live with all the elements of nature. Today we will approve the Law of Creation of the Agency of Nature which, it is true, has not been free of discrepancies. Yesterday, passing papers for my intervention, I found one that was a compromise that was then president of Catalonia, Mr. Pasqual Maragall – I'm talking about the year 2003, huh? – that, in the electoral program and the commitments that the Socialist Group proposed, said: "And we will set aside the Catalan Agency of Nature, the Forests and the Landscape, that aggregate all the services and competitions, today diverse in multitudes of general directions, sub-directions, areas of services, etcetera, right? And that drives an authentic strategy to protect and conserve the natural environment of biodiversity. It's been a long time, and it's true, we've been through a lot of difficulties. Generally, when these proposals were put into effect, for whatever causes, the finals of the legislatures came and there was no way to approve it. He passed it on to the government, he passed it on to the governments of Artur Mas and Carles Puigdemont. The finals of the legislatures were coming and there was no way to approve and push this issue forward. Surely for the discrepancies that have existed around this subject, right? The Socialists and Forward Units believe that it would be a mistake if today, with approval of this law, some sectors see a victory over the collections that have not seen it clearly. I, on the other hand, a defeat. Some have wanted to see, and so it has also manifested itself publicly, a confrontation – they will allow me a colloquial expression – between urbanities and rural areas, right? And the problems and challenges that we have in front of us as a society are great, complex and with divisive confrontations and mutated deprivations, we are wrongly headed. We must be able to break this dynamic, certainly, historical, I repeat, but the defence of the fair processes of sustainable rural development must be based, from our point of view, on a combination of regulation that enhances traditional productive activities, forest management, rural tourism. That, of course, this must be achieved with sectoral laws, but also with the conservation of ecosystems. And, ladies and gentlemen, counselor, from our point of view there is no other way: unity win, division lose. And this does not have to be done to reflect on the deep discomfort in a part of the country's territory, which manifested itself this past week. I'm sure we all have to. The first, from our point of view, the Government. Why? Because it has the Official Gazette of the Generality and it has the presupposition. And to have the presupposition means to prioritize in order to promote solutions that improve the quality of life, the essential services and the economy of the rural and mountain territories, which means, precisely, the people who live there. We don't want empty territories. When we started dealing with this law, my group already warned that, probably before arriving at the creation of the agency, it was necessary to address three previous laws: that of the landowners, today approved... certainly, in dealing with this law, the lack of participation was criticized; I wouldn't want to talk about that law, would I? , which did not mention any person or representative of environmental or territorial collections, but, well, it is a law that is already approved, that we gave it support. We thought that before the law of biodiversity and cultural heritage had been passed, that the government had announced it years ago and that there was no way to see the light. And that is, from our point of view, essential. We'd probably miss another law, which is the law of territories. Some of the procedures and impediments for some have to be articulated through this law, a more modern view of the current Law of Urbanism. And today, I can claim another law that, for us, is essential, huh? That, to the government, I don't think I have time to do it, because that points to early elections a little longer, but I can claim a mountain law here today. The government's obligation is to resume the work or they might find it... I think we won't have time, but they might find it with a bill of law, if the government doesn't present a bill of modernizing the current Mountain Law. And we need, Mr. Counsellor, a real economic and industrial plan that gives rise to the potential of forestry activity. The report of the CREAF, presented this week is acclaiming about the functions or dysfunctions of our forests respects its mitigating role of the effects of climate change, depending on the management or not that is done. Speaking of the agency, in recent years the continued loss of biodiversity has become evident. The latest report from the Secretary General of the United Nations warns that this loss can lead to the extinction of species. And Catalonia is not an isolated island in which everything works perfectly. Here we are also patenting these same problems. From 2002 until 2016 – this is already documented – the loss of biodiversity in Catalonia has meant a reduction of 22_percent of the populations of vertebrate species, and if we add invertebrates, one more thing, right? From our point of view, there is also a degradation and banalization of rural areas. Just so, the Law of Agrarian Spaces and the Law of Protection of Monumental Olives that we approved now fifteen days ago go in this line of posing or denouncing that we must also reverse this banalization at times from rural space and rural landscape and put it in value. It is necessary, therefore, to work to reverse this situation. The creation of the agency, from our point of view, will strengthen public policies and make it possible to deploy conservation and management policies aligned with current European policies – which we must not forget this concept – which are therefore framed and framed in the European Biodiversity Recovery Strategy in 2030. And that, moreover, will need to be coordinated with the participation of all sectors of the rural areas involved. Retaining natural heritage is essential for tackling climate change, and essential for an adaptive response and for ensuring biodiversity. The loss of biodiversity and the degradation of natural heritage is a further threat to people's salvation, as we can clearly see in the current Covid-19 pandemic. Wuhan's not far away, he's here too; we can keep him here, too. The pressure on nature, the disappearance of habitats and the degeneration of biodiversity cause irreversible effects on the environment and, consequently, on the benefits that ecosystems, in the form of ecosystem services, bring to society and improve the health, economy and quality of life of people. Today, 32_percent of the Catalan territory is protected by the Pla d'Espais d'Interès Natural, which includes the spaces of Xarxa Natura 2000, the special protection natural spaces, such as now the natural parks. In short, it is a conjunct, an important area that can be planned, ordered and managed properly in collaboration with the property and also of the sectoral policies that spoke before, that obviously affect the territory and that today, in many cases, still are pending this comprehensive management of these spaces with the corresponding economic resources. And it's true. The management of the natural environment in a territory as humanized as ours is of great complexity. We must make conservation, protection, preservation and sustainable use compatible, including agricultural, tourism, forestry, kinegetics, fisheries, energy and infrastructure activities, in order to prevent the depopulation of the territory. And what will the Nature Agency do? So, finally, what he does is take on the skills of the current Directorate General of Medi Natural. They don't create new infrastructures... new structures or more bureaucracy. What circulated these past few weeks is a new fake. It's taking the rave for the filles, what we've done is just replace the general direction for this agency. The agency, however, being an autonomous body, with its own legal personality, makes it possible to dispose of more agility than it can have a general direction or, finally, a secretary of the Government. And it allows for more connectivity, more operation in management and resource allocation. I'll talk about the resources later. Its basic management will focus on this part of the territory that has some form of environmental protection. His reports will be preceptive, not binding, and he gave them that proposal that we made on his day went far beyond what today, finally and consensually, a vast majority of Parliamentarians would bring forward. Forest management will continue to be attributed to the Agriculture Council. And the governance of this agency, who will it correspond to? To the Government, as it cannot otherwise be, to local administrations and to the different public and private actors dealing with the natural environment, biodiversity and economic activity and decision making is done through its board of directors, but also through its social council and its scientific council. What resources will you have? Of the current ones assigned to them by the Generality in the assumptions of 2020 and, in any case, it will be possible to decrease. This was one of the initial proposals, not in this process, but in the run-up to that legislature that lasted so long. The fact that I didn't... the resources couldn't decrease. One of the most important details that has occurred, together with the Health and Education sector, was, precisely, in the natural areas of this country, more than 60_percent of the resources available to us. We wanted to protect that resources could never be lowered from what the assumptions of encany assign to environmental policies and, more importantly, with management on the one hand of the new foundation that is created through the CO2 tax or combustion vehicles, that 50_per_cent– as you know– are destined for the creation of a foundation of natural heritage, that this year already had to bring resources and that, as a result of the various decisions, we would not have just noticed them in their fullness until the exercise of presupposition 2021 and 2022. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, what we cannot have is..., what we cannot do are speeches and then not have protected areas without allocating resources to them, which is what has sometimes happened in this country. The territories with a well-preserved natural heritage generate rich, they are, moreover, tourist destinations of quality that bring millions of visits to the year and, therefore, fix people and fix resources to the territory. Now that all just thirty-five years ago the Law of Natural Spaces was approved in Parliament on June 13, 1985, we have to say that Catalonia is one of the European territories where natural heritage is under more impact, more pressure, more threats and, therefore, is in a critical situation. The creation of the agency is a first step towards addressing these challenges, but it will be necessary to update the current legislation, because we still have things to fix and that are essential. And we'll need to work to overcome this gap that we've been able to catch in the law-to-law process between sectors. They announced the withdrawal of the remaining papers by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group in order to find this majority position of the chamber groups. And I'd like to end as I started: we're part of nature, we're not the masters. Thank you, President, Councillor, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.124.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, councillor, has finished company Jordi Terrades with an appointment; to me there is one that I especially like, which seems to me to be Carl Sagan, who said that we are nature thinking, thinking of itself; we are part of nature and we also have the obligation and the duty to think of ourselves as natural surroundings and as society that is part of it. The need for an economic transition that our societies, all the societies of the world, must live through requires courageous policies. We've been for decades, let's say, managing the end of a stage that won't come back. And we need to open another stage, that of the ecological transition, which will require us to rebuild public policies and to push public policies to the height of the folds, to set ambitious targets in terms of climate change, biodiversity conservation, a circular economy, and to enable us to deploy all new institutions so that they can last. And that the ecological transition is not a process that irreversibly fractures our society: that it does not guarantee the energy security of our citizens, that it does not guarantee the quality of the area apart from our citizens, or food security, etc. And, therefore, surely this is the first stone of a whole transition process that must ensure that our territory is not truncated, that our society is not invoiced and that we guarantee the ecological objectives that we need to live in a quality society no longer in a future long, but that we do so now and that we begin to deploy today the institutions that will govern the future of our country. And that is why we need brave governments that drive public policies and ambitious parliaments that drive new legislation and new public institutions in our country. And the first thought I wanted to do – and I know we're repeating it a lot, but I think we don't have to be aware – is that we've lost a decade. That the decade of detail has impacted very hard on environmental policies in our country. More than 60_percent of retailing in environmental policies in our country. And that the years of parliamentary blockage have blocked, too, many necessary proposals for the present and future of our country. And that today we create an agency that was established – as Terrades was well remembered – as early as the beginning of 2000, that was first planted 14 years ago, and that we have trigat 14 years in order to approve it by legislation that was completed, because it was certainly never a legislative priority of this country. And we've lost a decade. All a decade in which Catalonia has gone in the direction of the rest of Europe. In the rest of Europe, institutions are created related to the ecological transition, environmental departments are created, disaggregated competitions are built for the rest of departments, and strong departments are made with the capacity to be minimally rectors in the public policies of our country. And in Catalonia we've done all the opposite. We have broken down the competences of the Environment Department into all possible departments, we have internally unpacked the Environment Department up to a practical point of operational incapacity, we have spread more than a 60_per_cent, etc. And we have lost a decade in policies that are central to conservation policy, energy policy – two years without renewables – in waste and resource policy, where Catalonia had been a pioneer and where we are now just beginning to reactivate that debate. We've lost two years. It gives years that, moreover, were the key to building this transition, because today we are fully aware that in the majority of objectives that we have set ourselves at Community level we arrive late and we are just beginning to address them now. And so we take this agency, too, as the first stone with which we begin to assume that this climate change, the loss of biodiversity, the ecological transition, the energy transition is no longer a future, and that's what it says "in the next eighty years we have to do this, we have to do that, but it's a present that is already beginning to express in many conflicts that we live in our country and that will express itself more intensely during the next few years, but that forms part of our presence and that will need to have institutions that push public debates. I always say that and I don't want to be too short, but we've seen these many years of debate in the field of economic transition. We have seen the debate of Madrid Central, of the superilies, of the area of low emissions. We have not seen any debate pushed by the Government of Catalonia. We have not seen any debate – surely this is the first – where the Government of Catalonia promotes a public policy that puts the country to debate, which shows that there are conflicts that need to be resolved and agreed, but we have not seen any. And this lack of leadership affects the expectations of a whole country, because it's a reptile of a country. And, therefore, I think that sometimes we are very ambitious at the time of making a climate summit, of televising it, of generating public opinion, but then we are very little ambitious at the time of demanding the public administrations of this country that lead, that remain brave and that debate on the table and lead the economic transition in our country. Catalonia – and I'm already entering biodiversity – is a territory that is exceptionally rich in biodiversity. It's a point of high biodiversity worldwide. We have habitats close to being a Mediterranean country, to being a high-mountain country, to river areas, to the deltas we have in the country, to the drylands and to the agricultural mosaic we have with the country. We have a lot of people in the country. Surely Catalonia concentrates more indwelling and richer in habitats than the European Union's unspeakable states. And in 14 years, in this past decade what we've done is lose biodiversity in a very fast way. I won't read many dates, but we've lost a quarter of almost three-hundred vertebrate species in our country. 258, to be more accurate. We have more than three hundred species of flora in varying degrees of extinction threat in our country, a hundred of which are endemic to Catalonia and, therefore, if they disappear from Catalonia, disappear from the world. 15 percent of our natural habitats are degraded and therefore endanger the biodiversity of our country. And that means we have a repte and we have a responsibility. And not just a responsibility for the country's natural heritage and future generations, but we also have a community responsibility. There is a global challenge, which is to preserve biodiversity, and Catalonia must do its part. And that demands that she must be brave and ambitious. This agency doesn't, I think the debate we've seen these past few weeks reflects well this reality, as at least on two realities that condition the country and condition the agency. A deeply unequal forest ownership structure, where 52_percent of forest owners manage less than one_hectare and do not reach 3_percent of forest ownership in our country, while 1_percent of forest owners manage more than 100_hectares and practically manage half of the private forest ownership in our country. And this is a profoundly unequal property structure that has marked the relationship between private forest property and the public administrations of Catalonia for many years, and that we know, and that they have seen and lived very comfortably as lobbyists in the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries who built and managed Democratic Union in this country. And it has to be said, because if we don't give that we place the debate of public opinion in a debate that is absolutely etheric where no one knows what interests are beyond the public opinions they give. And, therefore, an unequal and well-employed property structure from public administration is a democratic problem. And in this country there are institutions linked to the great property that are responsible for acting as lobbyists to unpack public conservation policies in this country. And that was to end late or late, because a responsible government and a responsible parliament have to say that ownership also has a social responsibility over this country. And if the property affects the management and conservation of the natural heritage that belongs to the whole country, it has to assume that the public administrations are directors and they have to mark ambitious objectives of conservation that together and mandate the entire population of Catalonia. And, therefore, the first challenge we make in this agency is that it's an instrument of concertation. We will have many socio-economic conflicts – after that I will mention – in the immediate future of Catalonia, and we need a tool that is a tool of concertation that has the ability to stand up as public authority and to say: "This country has objectives to complete, has approved strategies for its public institutions that it can complete, but we have to agree with the social actors of this country. Also with private forest owners, also with large private forest owners. And, therefore, the first challenge of this agency is that it has to be a great space for concertation. The second reality of this country is that the border between the urban world and the rural world is still a border of inequalities that marks the expectations and opportunities of economic, social development in much of our territory, and that is an inequality that exists in this country and that we have to work to correct it. And, therefore, the second challenge of this agency is to include the rural world in this great concertation. The rural world also has positive expectations about this agency, because the conservation of natural heritage is also an activity of the rural world, because it will also generate occupation, because it will also generate capacity to boost the territory. Therefore, we must include the rural world in the concertation of this agency and in its ability to co-lead the ecological challenges we have as in the future. And, therefore, we need an agency that is decentralised, that provides the rural world with human resources, techniques, decision-making spaces run from Catalonia, because the habitats and conflicts and the objectives will be different run from all of Catalonia. And that agency is resolute – in our opinion – will depend largely on the success of the agency. If the agency ends up being an agency that does not exist in the territory and that is a more administrative lock, a more administered procedure that poses more problems on the table in joints or small owners that have few legal services, that the administered procedures are very long, the agency will not be successful, because the challenge of biodiversity conservation in Catalonia is not an administered problem, it is a national problem. And, therefore, we will need you to involve all the social sectors of this country and especially the rural world. And, so – let's leave it now – we know that the text is also part of the necessary consensus that they are gathering, that there has been between the political groups and between the participants in this law, that there are many debates that we have left open, but the first challenge of the statutory and regulatory deployment of this agency will be that it is a participatory agency, a finding space and a concertation space of conservation policies in our country. Because, as I said before, and now I'm talking about it, we're going to have a lot of socio-economic conflicts in our country in a short time. Conflicts that have to do with urban planning. The other day I was in Sitges, where the government authorized the planning of an autodrome, a horse riding, 23,000_mts_total squares, not to mention the already beloved Hard Rock Cafe. But we'll have a lot more projects than these on the table. We will keep the deployment of renewable energies on the table. We will address the problem of incineration, management, and removal of waste from the table, as well as water management. And all this will open up to us a range of socio-economic conflicts in our country that we have to assume, which we have to tackle. And that we have to approach beyond a localist perspective of the Nimby type: "Yes, yes, I want a mouthpiece but not to my people, to the people of the canto. No, no, we have to approach it, we have public instruments, which set ambitious objectives on the table and which are still able to arrange them with the territory. And with the little time I have left: for us, the creation of the agency is, to be sure, a good news. It changes the trend in our country's environmental policies, from constantly dismounting them to creating public institutions that can be rectors. We have been pleased that you have included, as a minimum, two aspects that are fundamental and that we keep in the papers. Not to accept, to some extent, there is so much pressure from certain lobbyist sectors. We believe that the management of the private forests, better said, the co-management of the private forests, the ability to lay conservation objectives on the table, recommendations and strategies, and certain sectors of the house of kinegetic species, should have been included in the agency because they are part of the natural heritage and the management of the biodiversity of our country, as are the European foundations for the conservation of biodiversity. But we'd rather have a consensus agency...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.125.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.126.0	...with as much consent as possible, and I'm done with this. And that we make her grow up and that we give her skills to the extent that it works that I never fail. And, therefore, we consider that to be good news. I think we should celebrate that this Parliament approves a law like this and places us all in the most ambitious way possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Member of the House of Representatives, Nattalia Sánchez, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.128.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone and everyone. "It has cost God and help to get here, we can say it. The Members who have already spoken before us have already said that it has been really difficult to get here, but we also think it is good news that we got here. I am beginning to thank all the speakers for the work that we have been able to do all these months, throughout this year, as the rapporteur recalled. It has not been easy to get here, and in this final stretch we must confess that we have suffered, we have suffered for whether or not the Agency of Nature of Catalonia approved. Anyway, we're still debating a law decree, 18/2020, that generates our intuition that even the whole government had doubts as to whether this law was finally approved. Nothing, no more, let's celebrate that this isn't like this. For us it is also important to give thanks to the people who have helped us, who have personally helped me, concretely, the people of the working group of Territories of the CUP, in Xavier Carceller and Leo Bejarano, who without them could not do this job, and thanks for their knowledge. And a thank you to all those people who are waiting for you right now, all those ecological entities, entities that work in the territory, conservation entities that have also been at the bottom of the canon these days demanding approval of the agency and making arguments about the table for their approval. The simple creation of the Agency of Nature has generated an important terrabastall, since the creation of the agency starts from a hasdicap, which is what presupposed the maintenance of the traditional status quo, which makes it almost impossible to manage nature at the height of the current reptes and the definitive overcoming of the power of certain sectors, which we have also not talked about during this debate, from within and outside the Administration. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the administrative bodies responsible for natural heritage and biodiversity, historically poorly charged with this management and historically poorly equipped and with much political support, not to say with much political hostility, have played their part in the final stage of the government of Convergence and Union, and the current situation is still dramatic, which is evident in the state of conservation of natural heritage and the widespread loss of biodiversity in our country. Reference has also been made to the reports analysing biodiversity in our country. The latest report on the state of biodiversity in Catalonia indicates that, between 2002 and 2019, there has been a general davalada of 25_percent of wildlife. The agency would allow to consolidate public conservation policies so as to avoid that we are still worse off from the situation in which we are. In any case, we believe that the agency, with its own legal personality, financial autonomy and economic, human and related resources, which we believe will be substantially superior to the current one, is absolutely necessary to start reversing this process of biodiversity degradation that we have suffered in the past or in the past decades. For this reason, and since our own legislature does not know what the correlation of forces will be, it is a more reason for which we have not understood this..., to postpone the debate of this law and the vote and, therefore, its approval. It is obvious, for what I have said so far, that the CUP supports the law, although we understand that it should be more ambitious. And we've been talking about it in the ponència jobs, especially in the competition camp. For our part, of the papers we have presented, some have been approved, some of the thirteen that we have presented, have included five, in part or in full. One that makes reference to the name, that we rejoice, that we speak of the Agency of Nature and not of the Agency of Natural Heritage. Further on the abscess of the expression of protected natural spaces, of the creation of decentralized bodies of participation, it is a question that these days have also been put to debate and that it has been one of the criticisms. So we've enjoyed going further, and that's why we keep some of the issues alive in terms of participation and territorial representation. But well, we've come all the way here. Thus, an additional provision has also been incorporated to compliment the law of effective equality between men and women, Law 17/2015, which is a theme that people, Members and Members who have been posing with us, have seen us present systematically, which is that, by law, we say that the organs that are established – in this case, in this law – cannot begin to function until those organs are fully equal. In fact, this law is not an example. I am the only woman who has participated in the drafting and legislative process of this law. Women do not have equal opportunities and therefore representation in all legislative processes. And, therefore, also in the organs, it is important to guarantee this match. To the contrary, there have been no demands with some of those I have said concerning participation; some transcendental questions concerning the administrative intervention of the agency in those protected areas which do not have the condition of natural spaces of special protection, which are in fact the majority; the creation of participatory bodies, I insist; the incorporation of principles of disconcertization of functions, or the participation of territorial proximity. We have not been able to include them, but we add the criteria of "better than the agency and that we have enriched it and endowed it with greater competence than I have stayed in a coven or in a declaration of intent. There have been various groups and collections that have been opposed to the creation of the agency, and some of these have been characterized or characterized by an extractive conception of nature and by strong conservative political tendencies, linked to the history of what I have already talked about about the management of nature far from the history of our country. They set up a network that has traditionally controlled nature-related policies in Catalonia and, in general, agricultural, branch and forestry policies, as well as the same department of the administration responsible for applying them, the DARP, which maintained a certain open hostility in relation to conservationist settlements. This has been so, for years, for many years, and we can talk about it openly. And we must also understand this consensus that we have come to the creation of the agency as a step towards reaching greater consensus. Through an anti-urban speech, stereotyped, he focused on the contradictions between the city-camp, generating an almost sterile confrontation. We do not want to participate in increasing this tension, an unnecessary tension. But someone thinks that you have some sense of confrontation – I told you when we were talking about the Law of Protection of Monumental Olives – do you have any sense of confrontation between the people who work the land and the people who defend the environment? Some speeches from those who spoke today go through this line. This confrontation is totally sterile. The reptes we have as a country, the reptes in the logic of climate emergence, pass, sense of doubt, to find consensus and to find space to share the fight among all those people who defend and manage, who work and manage the land and those people who defend the environment. And that's important, because here we find future horizons that can be useful for the challenges we have. And I'm done. We also want to put on the table the importance of public workers, who have also been on the lookout for this agency and who have also suffered this last minute, in which we have suffered for their approval. So, too, you are satisfied that you have been able to incorporate the demands that the workers and public workers in the sector demand from us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and to fix its position, for a maximum of two minutes the groups and five subgroups, have the word those groups and subgroups that do not have live items. I, in this case, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.130.0	Thank you very much, President. As is already known, the People's Party group has complained from the very first moment on to put an end to this process. And today, obviously, we will vote against it, among other things, because I am not naive in this life, and we were very clear as it would end. But, despite this initial, round, clear position, he did want to start this intervention by showing respect for his promoters and his advocates. I've never been in the trap of stigmatizing anyone much that we don't like this agency. And precisely for this reason, we also demand respect for the agency's detractors. Simplification of the debate on forest speculators or environmental destroyers is not only profoundly unfair, but they want to deny a debate on the environment and democracy, as everyone here wants the best for our environment, for our natural environment. But every one does it from different positions and they're all absolutely legitimate. Our position, already from the beginning, is not to be seen either with a partisan political question. In fact, a good friend in favour of the agency told us the other day that because we are against it, if in the rural world no one is voting for us at all – which I will not deny, because denying evidence, therefore, is not intelligent – but is absolutely indifferent to us. We don't look at this question in ideological terms. We've talked to a lot of people; we've got about 200 emails – like, I imagine, all of you – roughly half against and half in favor, and what we believe is that the detractors have a right to have a voice today, here in Parliament, clear and round. Isha's listening. The Government of Catalonia cannot fall into the intellectual arrogance of thinking that they know better how to manage the natural environment than those who make a living by managing it and who are therefore the most interested in preserving it. I repeat: they are the most interested in preserving it. The position of the detractors, obviously, is not monolithic either, that is obvious. It changes between those who say 'agency', yes; but so, not and others, as is our case, that what we understand is that agency is not needed because Catalonia does not need more bureaucracy, Catalonia does not need more structures than these characteristics. And they're clear positions. From the synthesis of these two postures, however different, we have four common points, which could be this least common denominator of the postures. First, processing as proposed by law and not as proposed by law has stolen the possibility of a debate being and a debate of higher quality. It is curious, Mr Calvet, that so much to criticize Madrid..., you say that they do not listen to us and that they are very centralists, and you do exactly the same, but in Catalan version. in Catalan version, but they do exactly the same. Two. The text that is being put to the vote today is deeply interventionist, liquidating municipal autonomy. We could say it's a direct attack on municipalism. Thirty-eight plural assemblies, five district councils and the Lleida Diputation; of all political colors, of all ideological sensitivities. We are not talking about a party debate. Three. We are ahead of an attack on the democratic principle of private property, which is a fundamental right. The public administration may require certain conditions from the owners, of course, but they may never directly manage private property. I believe that we will be at the forefront, in the legal analysis, of how we will ultimately violate this fundamental right of private property. Four. In the composition of the agency, the real managers of the natural environment, those who are on the ground, are marginalized. A Phoenician market menu has been carried out on the cadres, which is little built and edifying, and which degrades the image of unity that the sector must also transmit territorially. In short, there is no real political consensus, above all territorial, and what we do see are scientific discrepancies of serious, severe management. Our party, therefore, will vote against it, they understand that the press are bad advisors and that in the debate some very important views have not been able to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congressman Ferran Civit has a turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.132.0	Good morning to everyone, and good morning to you and good morning to you. First of all, a hug to all the families who have lost their family during these months, and we hope that we will soon return to normality, but in this case much better than we have been these months. First of all, let's say hello to all the deputies and deputies, to the counselor here, and also a warning: I shouldn't be here. Here there should be, therefore, Congresswoman Violant Cervera, Congresswoman Hortènsia Grau, Congresswoman Mireia Boya, Councillor Rull, Councillor Serret, Councillor Romeva... But we already know that they are 155 things and repression. But he said this, therefore, thanks to Councillor Calvet, to Councillor Jordà – that I take advantage of to remember it: this was not a defeat of the ecological sector of Territories and Sustainability on agriculture; this – to the secretary Marta will go up, to Director Ferran Miralles, to Secretary David Mascort, to Director Oriol Anson, to Director Montserrat Barniol, to Director Elisenda Guillaumes, to Alba Balcells, to Gemma Brugués, to Joan Masferrer, to Marc Suárez, to Nuria Julià, to Sara Bailach, to Silvia Casola, to the director Elisenda Guillaumes, to Alba Balcells, to the editors, to the rapporteur and to all of the posts; and to the members of the House of Parliament at all times. And in these months that we have all folded together as society, but also as expected, I have had the chance to find myself with hundreds of organizations, with hundreds of people – as I also know the Councillor has done – but I had also previously had the responsibility to visit all directions of natural parks, and I found that all directions of natural parks were explicitly unanimous in favour of the need for this agency in order to function and work quickly in favour of biodiversity and logic from the conservationist sector, as well as logically what we approve today – a Member and a Member have already said this – do not consider it enough. And that's what we could find in common. And I also think that with this... they would share enough of all the deputies and deputies that this has been a debate between Taliban ecologists or even a sector considered feudal, caciquil and latifundista. That's not it, the debate isn't about it, and at the moment it's not about good and bad or some of them in one way and some of them are about the other, nor is it about a camp and city confrontation, because neither the cities are homogeneous nor the territory. I'm here, I'm a soc of territories in a region of twenty thousand inhabitants that every time the population went down, and logically I'm defending the agency here. But I'd like to remind you that this agency... we've seen all the folds that have turned into the oss of all times. We have seen that there is a diagnosis, that it is shared by all folds, that in a way we have all exhibited here, that it is the fact that there is an emergency letter from the primary sector and the territory. And we also see it in other things that are also the cause, in this case, of these months of videoconferencing meetings with hundreds of other people from the territory that we have found, which is the whole issue of the installation of wind farms, which in the end means co-participation, co-government, being protagonists. Because, if not, it won't be possible to pull a project forward, if we don't do all the folds. But all the folds also mean putting things in their place, because what we're approving here is simply an internal managed change – an internal managed change – it's not a change in legislation, it's not a change in paradigm. And because... we're all clear that territory is a point of finding and not a battlefield. And when it comes to whether there has been persecution of the primary sector... I take this opportunity to recall, as the memory of natural parks says, that most environmental reports are resolved favorably. This..., are unfavorable only a 5_per_cent; favorable conditions, a 51_per_cent, and favorable ones, a 33_per_cent. Or, yes, there is a question, yes, logically there may be discomfort, but it is not always white or black. Because we need to bear in mind that we have two emergencies: one that we already know all folds, that it is the climate emergency, the emergence of the loss of biodiversity, but logically we also have a territorial emergence that would be practically common to all Europe, that it is the aging; the depopulation of the territory; the lack of people entering the primary sector, especially the fact that young people have a university title and become a passport to leave the municipality, and that is what we all know. From here I don't know how many workers or come from the primary sector, but well, in my particular case, my ex-sister was rowing. He shut down the farm not for biodiversity. My current father-in-law is paid and doesn't suffer from biodiversity or who thinks that biodiversity is attacking him, but it just hurts because he can't market it for sure he's coming and that he's hurting, like the whole primary sector, the issue of low prices. To my people, the Scruggle of the Francolí, practically three families pages are now managing the bulk of the territory; three families pages, and of course, this is not only seen in the fact of the technology, or that there are now tractors of sixty_ thousand, of one hundred_ thousand euros that allow to advance much work; it is due to a high variety of causes. And of course, if the subject of the rural debate in the primary sector has been discussed here, then I ask the Generality, in this case through Councillor Calvet, that all of us ask ourselves, because that, I repeat, is a debate that we have on the table. But, I also repeat, what we are talking about here is an internal administrative change, there is no legislative change affecting the primary sector, there is no competition, there is no agriculture or forestry, there is no new window, there is no administrative duplication or new taxes... This is of those things that, when you see, you must repeat, but obviously you must also say that, from what we have found, we must do the producers of the primary sector, the technical sector of the territory, not people who feel permanently taxed, but protagonists. And logically, the citizenry acts in the territory, because if not the territory is thinking that it is here making the Mediterranean trilogy, more than the management, they have to present a multitude of papers. Biodiversity is not the enemy of the primary sector, it is the aging, it is the intermediaries, the lack of feminization, the incorporation of people, the fair prices..., it is complementary the two sectors. And from Esquerra we want a welfare state, and welfare state means being able to live and work within the territory. That's clear to us. And that means managing the territory well; and that means producing the territory; and that means, thanks to the Law of Agrarian Spades, that there is more land of cultivation and, logically, exploitation of forests. Because there has to be more exploitation of forests. And let's make it clear here, because the forest sector is essential to avoid, logically, fires; it is, logically, to make zero-kilometer skirt and biomass – it would just be missing – and to generate jobs. And that's not a "syringuite", a "syringuite" would be the Centre for Taurino Affairs, in Madrid or the Council of Taurino Centres, in Andalusia. That's what they are, that to torture or murder animals in this we do spend public money. We have only focused on promoting biodiversity and more. And it doesn't come four days ago, it goes backwards. Before we talked about it, with the Catalanist and left-wing governments that there are principles of this century. But now you see, as you will know, those who have the most political memory, already from the end of the 1990s when Councillor Albert Vilalta was the first Councillor of Medi Ambient who set up the Agency of Residus, the Agency of Water lacked this triumvirate of the Agency of Natural Heritage or Nature, as it will finally say. One manages the residue channel, the other, the water channel, and this will manage the natural heritage fund, which is 50_per_cent, as you know, from CO2 tax to vehicles. And what we're doing is it's up to us to do, it's just missing, we're not doing it. And that's for us to do, but it's also for us the European Union Biodiversity Strategy, which dates back to 2030. And, logically, I don't want to say, that we also have the law of biodiversity pending, other people have said it. The law of biodiversity carries..., if the agency carries twenty years of hope calmly, the law of biodiversity also carries the same time, and, logically, it would be a good time when we come back to believe that we start to generate consensus once and for all folds, that this law is still country, that it is urgent that we do it among all folds. And that, obviously, we begin to recapitulate the CO2 tax, because without resources we can't do it. Because this biodiversity law we want already, we want it soon, but logically, we also want other challenges that we have pending. Because when we found these people, many of whom had remorse or a feeling of displeasure with respect to the theme of creation of the agency, many say to us: "Ostres, it is that we are in Xarxa Natura 2000 at the end and we have not received any compensation alone. So now that we have tickets, let's do it. We need investment in the territory, in the people, who are protected, and, logically, we also need the creation of two natural parks, at least, one that is Montsec and the other, that of the mountains of Prades. I'd like to, before I stop being a Member – I'll try not to be more than eight years a Member, because I think politics is a passing thing, it doesn't have to be a modus vivendi..., so I'd like it, when I'm here as a Member, to have the Agency of Nature as a minimum and every time you push the blind to see a natural park. Finally, this is the Agency of Nature, not the rural world. Therefore, this agency will not cause us problems in the rural world, nor will it save it. This is a shared repte for everyone. Its objective, of this agency, is to promote biodiversity and others to help the rural sector, but logically we have to make it clear that we need to work folds, and that means calling everyone, everyone who lives and works in the territory, all the productive sectors and the conservationist sectors, all the administrations to find us, to define a more sustainable, more free country – logically, what we want some – and, logically, more biodiverse and productive. Why can't you have the famous curse of the "turn," right? That all the areas that end up in the ‘turre' – ‘agriculture,' ‘culture,' ‘nature' – are barallin for the wreaths, and then end up with minimal assumptions. It is a matter of sharing objectives and responsibilities, and we hope that this debate will continue, despite the debates and the pressures and all bent, a point of inflection and that it will bring nature and culture to the positive phase. And with all this I hope that both nature and agriculture have better assumptions and much more people living and working in the territories and in favour of the primary sector and biodiversity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.134.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members and Members. I will focus my intervention on the content of the law. From the outset, thank all those who appear for their collaboration, which has been very useful for the writing of this law. Our group has collected 50 per cent of the proposals identified in its reviews. Yes, not randomly uniformly, but those that, by our criteria, were in the right direction, even though it was with a certain fan. Now, like Junts' deputy for Catalonia, thank all the speakers for their collaboration, and in a double and especially, in Ferran Civit, who is part, therefore, of a group that supports the Government, the dedication and the commitment shown. Thus, in the elaboration of this law, manifest and recognize the great dedication of the Secretary of Environment and Sustainability, and in particular of the Directorate-General for Environmental Policy and Natural Environment: without its expertise and its contributions, the fall and the strength of our discussions would have been very affected. This is a proposal for law that was presented by four parliamentary groups. This fact has been transferred to the negotiation of the reviews. Leaving behind our governing partner, with whom we have agreed in all but one proposals, which is a very and very difficult performance, we have accepted or traded roughly, and significantly, more than 50_per_cent with the Socialists and Unites Group for Progress and Catalonia in Comú Pode. But we have also been able to deal with other groups, in particular with the Popular Unity Candidate. However, with the City Group the coincidences have been much smaller, not because of a priori question, but because its model of agency is very different, and this has been reflected in the papers presented. Mr Domínguez has explained to us various reasons for which his group will vote that no, but I do not think he has explained to us the change of opinion of the end of the fever, when they abstained from the committee, and the denial that they have announced to us today: what has happened since then until today? The methodology used was based on the 2018 biodiversity strategy, which already provides for the creation of this agency, and on the comparison of twelve agencies of the Generality and various biodiversity agencies of European countries, such as the French Biodiversity Agency or Natural England. As a newly created organization, there have been some uncertainties about the supply of functions to be assigned. There is no change in management, it means that the agency and the DAR will co-manage the government's public-owned forests located within the natural special protection spaces, and they will plan and order jointly according to the network of natural mature forests and natural evolution. They may be distressed, but they will not fear, and much less reckless. Our reservations to various aspects of some opposition groups are not by principle, but because we believe that the day-to-day experience will give us sufficient knowledge to deepen or change in the future, balance and graduality at the same time. With regard to the articulation, I will highlight the following of governance. We don't want to duplicate any agencies or functions, because that would hurt the same agency. As a result, the current Directorate-General for Environmental Policies and Natural Environment will be replaced by the Agency for Nature of Catalonia. The reduction of members of the board of directors will provide the agency with more operation. The creation of social and scientific commissions will assign greater sectoral representativeness. Consequently, these commissions are recognizable to the law, at the highest level. At this point I believe it is pertinent to mention the transaction of the two groups supporting the Government with the Catalonian Group in Comú Pode, which in Article 3 states that: "The statutes of the Catalonian Nature Agency must determine the mechanism for the relationship of the Social and Scientific Committees with the Board of Directors, in order to guarantee their participation in the Council's decision-making. Therefore, underlining the guarantee that the two commissions will be able to exert their influence on the decision making process. We want two strong commissions with potential. Our intention is that the agency has a high territorial coordination and participation that strengthens shared governance with the territory. We don't want an agency stuck in itself, because we know it would make it ineffective. Our determination is to work in the field and at different levels. It is envisaged to promote participation, among others, with public administrations and local authorities. In addition – and this has been a transaction with the Popular Unity Candidate – article 4 says: "The statutes of the Catalonian Nature Agency must establish the creation of decentralized bodies of participation and active collaboration in the making of decisions of civil society and the assembly of actors of the territory. Therefore, highlighting our decentralized model of agency. Another aspect that is not less relevant is the staff rule. Article 7 to which he refers has been dealt with by the Socialist Group and Units for Progress and incorporates our 120 part of the text in its 119, which states: "The staff of the Agency of Nature of Catalonia must be functional or workable in the same terms and conditions established for the staff of the Administration of the Generality, in accordance with the applicable legislation. Therefore, demonstrate once more our commitment to the agency's workers. One more essential element to highlight this law is the viability and economic sufficiency of the agency. Its resources will come from three parties: assumptions of the Generality, the totality of the fund for the natural heritage. This is an example of a discrepancy with the Ciutadans Group, since their views went in the direction of the government. I was surprised when the deputy from Ciutadans made the effort to make more resources available, when his group, at the 111, rejoined the agency's participation in this fund. It would be incomplete and partial, however, to hide that in this distance, that of economic viability, that of the resources that the agency will have, there has been an element that has not remained sufficiently defined due to a disagreement that among all of us we have not been able to resolve at the time of finding the necessary consensus. This fact, for another band, is logical, as it is about the creation of a new us. As a result, in my words there is not a bit of controversy, it is simply to leave a sense of the position of our group. I am referring to the structural European foundations. But given the importance our group gives them, I will literally read them our proposal to erase any doubt about what our position is. To the previous points, he added: "The contributions derived from the structural and reverse European foundations of direct management of the Government of Catalonia which aim at the conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity, meaning that, for reasons of efficiency and in a coordinated manner with the agency, other departments of the Generality can also use these foundations for actions of conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity. I repeat: "That it has as its object the conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity. And a _second paragraph: « The agency participates in the valorization commissions and working groups of the Government of Catalonia referring to European foundations that have objectives related to the conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity – once more, eh? –« and can manage within the standard market the part of these foundations that surrounds them. In other words, that the funds that are intended to preserve the natural heritage and biodiversity are allocated, let us say that preferably, to the agency, and that this can participate in the corresponding commissions of the Generality. It's nothing new; it's already happening. The consultation of the Finance Natura 2000 Guidance Handbook, prepared for the European Union, is very illustrative about this aspect. Please consult with him, and you will see that it is not especially revolutionary, it is already being done. As I say, there is no revolution, years on the contrary, it is a voluminous exercise of rationality and containment, in the direction of the environmental policies driven by the European Union. In conclusion, if the result of the vote is favourable, the Catalonian Nature Agency will have a high degree of autonomy, an organization chart comparable to that of other European countries, with the aim of promoting sustainable, vigorous and sustainable natural heritage conservation policies and biodiversity. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. And let me congratulate you on your recent fatherhood. Congratulations, Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.136.0	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.137.0	Well, now the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability wanted to make a later intervention for thanks. So, counselor, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.138.0	President, Councillor, Members and Members, I want to confess that I am excited and that none of us will be able to understand this positive emotion for the moment that we are living from the Parliament of Catalonia in this approval of the proposed law of the Agency of Nature, nor to elongate from what you would like to share. Some things have been said, therefore, that they could certainly be object to coming in to answer them, but today I do not send people away from what I would like to share with you. To have arrived here, until the approval of the Agency of Nature by the Parliament, is the culmination of a work done for many years, for many years, for a very large number of people; electoral programs, intentions of some governments and parliaments for years. And today is, therefore – so I am honestly, honestly growing up – a very important day for the country. We've come as far as we've ever been. To conclude, I honestly believe that it can contribute to the further advancement of Catalonia in terms of the preservation of our natural heritage and, therefore, progress. Natural environment, biodiversity and sustainable use of the territory. By responsibility, for our salvation and that of the planet. These are the key concepts: natural environment, biodiversity and sustainable use of the territory. The Agency of Nature must be the instrument that will enable us to make better policies of nature, very concrete projects that will generate value in the territory and will do so with the territory. It is not only a question of preserving the environment – which also, obviously – it is a question of providing human and economic resources, material resources, in short, in order to be able to make active policies to the territory, to invest in natural capital to the service of the people. It is true that there are parliamentary groups and associations and entities that would like to have more. We understand it and respect it, and we probably share it; but now it was time to take a real and possible step, a giant step to create an agency that counted on the impulse of four parliamentary groups– Together for Catalonia, the Republican Left of Catalonia, the PSC and the commons–, and also the reunion, let us say, explained to enter the debate and vote and announced in this Faristol of the CUP group. These are the four parliamentary groups, the four driving forces – together for Catalonia, Esquerra, the PSC and the commons – who, during the months, for years – because this is what happened in the previous legislature – have put forward the law's proposal. It is a possible contribution, therefore, which allows us to start working in the direction that the most advanced European countries do, those to which we want to assemble, like France, England, Sweden, Finland, Wales, Scotland, Chechnya..., which already have instruments more or less similar to what we are creating today. With the Agency of Nature we complete the third vertex of a triangle of instruments that all governments need, that a government needs to develop solid and sustainable policies that give answers to the conservation of the natural environment and the preservation of local and global biodiversity. The first of these vertexes is a strategy, an online strategy– it was also said – with European and international approaches: the natural heritage strategy and biodiversity approved for the government, for this government, at the beginning of this mandate. I still don't read it, but it's a very complete strategy. The second vertex: economic resources; sufficient and stable economic resources from the CO2 tax created by the Natural Heritage Fund, which we would have wanted to have started charging this year but which, precisely because of the health emergency, we could not start charging until the coming year. But the patrimonial fund is there, created for the Climate Change Law, and is made available to 50_per_cent, through the patrimonial fund, of this agency. And the third vertex, precisely what we are approving today, an agency, a tool that allows us to deploy this strategy and manage these resources in an agile and efficient way, to the service of the territory: the Agency of Nature of Catalonia. It is a coherent full road, with a clear purpose: to put oneself to the service of the country as an element of progress that allows us to preserve our heritage, to give opportunities to people, to businesses, and to fight against depopulation, to make a country alive; it ties also with the concept of a country seen that in this legislature President Torra capzala and in which he makes the whole government work. Even so, despite this deep conviction that we are on the right path – full of coherent route – in the last few weeks we have listened to the warning of certain sectors of society; we have listened, and I also believe that we have read what was worrying them. In the past few weeks, the Territorial and Sustainability team – I myself – have held more than thirty meetings with more than seven hundred people, officials and representatives of entities, and also local and supra-local administrations, as many of you have done. We have listened for sectors, for trades, for ever... We have resolved doubts, we have resolved many doubts, because there was certainly some misinformation, but we have also taken note of some of the concerns expressed. What we have found is that the rural world demands and needs more attention; that is obvious. And that's everybody's job, because dealing with the rural world means agriculture, it's clear, talking about the primary sector, but also talking about mobility infrastructure, talking about health equipment, teaching, security, talking about digital network deployment – important... So, it's everyone's job. So the Agency of Nature, this tool, also up to work rape crops with this rural world that demands attention, that it claims to be escorted, from the coast to Central Catalonia and Pirinius – today we have referred to the question made to me by MP Imma Gallardo – passing, obviously, through the droughts and the conjunction of the ecosystems that we have in the country, more than seven hundred; indeed, therefore, a country with so many ecosystems as, sometimes, have the states of Europe. In the same way, we are also convinced that the rural world must incorporate the environmental vector more intensively into its way of doing things. We also gave it to you sincerely and with open eyes and with the will that this should be understood: you need to incorporate the environmental vector more intensively into your way of doing it, because it is added value. Economic recovery requires the full involvement of this strategic sector for Catalonia, and therefore, among all of us, precisely develop and deploy the green agenda of Catalonia, in the framework of the European green recovery and the SDGs, of the objectives of sustainable development, which will be effectively implemented. There is not enough just to say it or to bring a pin to the flap: they have to be applied effectively. And, therefore, incorporating these environmental values into all that economic reactivation is important, we would be on the green agenda path that we need. So, the agency, what's like her, is the possibility of doing better. The agency will continue to develop – it has been said – the skills that the Directorate General for Environmental Policy and Natural Environment has now, but multiplying its ability to serve, for example, from natural spaces and parks, an engine of progress and development of the territories that acquit them, as it passes to other countries around it. The agency must be able to increase with more resources, human and material, the work of the staff working in the field of the natural environment, which always does so with a lot of vocation but now they will find in this agency a solid tool in which also multiply their work. We insisted: we listened to this petition for more attention, and that's why last week we addressed a letter to 940 Catalan mayors, who explained to them that from the government we had proposed, the driving groups of the bill's proposal, here in Parliament, that the representation of local authorities and economic sectors from three to four members was increased to the board of directors of the same agency, to its board of directors. It can't be today, but we've been committed to doing it from the Execution. Therefore, first: better representativeness. More commitments: also guarantee – it was said – a territorial deployment effect of this agency. The agency has to be deployed there where, therefore, there are more territories related to the same nature, and therefore this territorial deployment is absolutely essential, and so we have been compromised. And the third compromise: working the statues with everyone. We will immediately start a process of enhanced participation, with the territory and with the sectors involved in this management of natural heritage, with all those that have been addressed in the past weeks. We want to win - in trust, we want to win the trust of those who may not have felt enough involved in this agency until now. I'm done. I can't do it any other way that I'm not grateful to all those who made it possible, who made it possible. First of all, to the advisors of Territory and Sustainability who preceded me, and especially to friend Josep Rull, who is following us at this session at these times, and I am sure that I am also very excited. Josep, thank you for your courage, for having withdrawn in a precise appearance, before the Environment Committee of Parliament, the process of creation that today culminates. Many, many thanks. To the deputy speakers of the driving groups: Narcis Clara, Ferran Civit, Jordi Terrades, Lucas Ferro. You've done a lot of work, doors and doors. And, of course, the rest of the speakers. Also to the fifty-five comparants that at the length of thirty-two appearances – in Narcis Clara has related them all, one by one, and I think it was very important that it is done – and in five days of sessions they exposed their parent in this chamber. Thank you to all of you for helping to make this law better. To the whole government, and especially to the departments with which this agency will have to work rapeseed rape to pull the agency forward: Presidency – many thanks, Councillor Budó, to attend this debate –, Interior, Company, and also Agriculture – with Councillor and friend Teresa Jordà. We'll have to work all the rapeseeds to pull the agency forward, because the agency in its board of directors already creates this interdepartmentality that will make it richer and incorporate this cross-sectional look on nature. To all those who have worked for nature in these past thirty years, since it was created the Environment Department, and before, and who have struggled at one time or another to have an instrument like this: associations, organised civil society... There have been a lot of people who have not failed. Some of them are no longer among us, and we also want to dedicate this tape to them. Also many thanks, obviously, to the entire team of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, the Secretary of Environment and Sustainability, who believe, that this Nature Agency should serve us to make a better, more prepared, more sustainable and more resilient country. Many thanks, Marta will rise; many thanks, Ferran Miralles. The Agency of Nature is an opportunity, an opportunity to take better care of our natural heritage, to serve better citizens and citizens of Catalonia, both those we are today and those who will succeed us. We live in a raccoon of the world that is called Catalunya, and today we give to the world, solemnly and clearly, that we want to take care of better Catalonia so that we can contribute to improving the sentient world. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.139.0	Thank you, Counselor. The debate is over, you know, because we have previously announced that the vote on this opinion will be taken at the end of all the debates in this House. [[Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May on urgent measures in the field of urban planning, finance and the environment]] [[203-00043/12]] Let's now move to the next item on the agenda, so that is the debate on the validation of the 18/2020 Decree of May 12, of urgent measures in the matter of urbanism, fiances and the environment. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability will intervene to expose the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.140.0	President, deputies and deputies, good morning to all of you. My intervention now seeks to expose the reasons brought by the Department of Lands and Sustainability and the Government to promote a series of urgent measures in two areas: urban and environmental. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we've been moved to make things easier for people, people, families and businesses. On May 14, 2020, the official newspaper published the Decree Law 18/2020 of May 12, on urgent measures in the field of urban planning, finance and the environment. This decree aims to reactivate the economy, facilitate administrative processing and provide liquidity, so that it can address the economic effects of the alert state and the Covid-19 pandemic. As I said, I pretended, I claim, this decree, to make things easy in the state of alarm, of emergence, that we were living and that we are still, we say, gradually breaking down all our activity, but already pointing to this new normality. In the first place, I would like to detail everything that relates to the urban area, which depends on the Secretary of the Urban Agenda and Territories. What have we done with this decree in the urban sphere? First, we have enabled August's month so that the urban planning commissions can approve planning instruments. This had never happened before; the August had always been inoperable for the law from an urban point of view, but since for many weeks, months already, we have been, therefore, with many difficulties of management, of ordinary work, we thought it opportune to be able to enable the month of August so as not to waste time and take advantage of this month to advance in planning instruments that enable, in short, economic recovery. We start from an exceptional situation, in which the statement of the state of alarm included the suspension of the administered terms, among them the processing of urban expedients. This spread to June 1st, when they pulled the terms again. Notwithstanding this, we would like to underline that it provides for the realization of the terms if it is an essential topic for the protection of the general interest or for the basic functioning of the services, and, therefore, this is where we have joined; it is the case of many of the consignors who are ordinarily involved in the various territorial commissions of urbanism. In the band, the same decree that regulates the functioning of urban planning commissions also establishes the possibility to celebrate them both in person and at distance or mixed. In fact, we are broadcasting them in streaming, in a democratic transparency exercise as well. In view of the extension of the state of alarm, with successive prorogations, and the need not to paralyze more shippers, precisely because of the need to continue the economic activity, the Department of Territories and Sustainability has promoted the telematic mode of the territorial commissions of urbanism. Thus we have been able to pass through the commissions those shippers that are related to the protection of general interest, also having present those shippers significant for the generation of economic activity. Expedients could be processed from the territorial commissions of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, Lleida, the metropolitan area of Barcelona, Central Catalonia, Penedès, Camp de Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre. All these commissions have been celebrating, sometimes, with authentic two-day marathons, but in the end they have added a set of approved expedients and, therefore, possibilities for economic reactivation of the territory more than remarkable. The celebration of the urban planning commissions is planned with this telematic mode also during the month of July and August, declaring itself fit for the resolutions in Decree 18/2020, which today we bring to validation before this chamber. In this way, it is expected – only for this 2020, which I have made clear – to extend one-month deadlines for the final resolution of urban expedients established by the law of urbanism, when it fully or partially coincides with the month of August, which was an important legal exception. With the authorization of the month of August, it must be borne in mind that this obligation to the assembly is not imposed, it is not imposed, nor is it envisaged that the August is suitable for other transactions, such as now public information: it is for the celebration of the commissions and it is possible to make these agreements in meaningful dispatches or protection of the general interest. In the end what we are pursuing, what we are pursuing with this decree is, in short, that the administrative activity in the resolution of urban instruments is not continued, in order to minimize the effects on the economic activity, already touched, obviously, by the paralysis resulting from the management of the crisis. Secondly, before we talk about environmental issues, all the reference to the deposit of bonds from the contracts for the logger of urban estates. To deal with this issue, the Government has approved the proposed amendment of Law 13/96 of 20 July, of the Registry and the deposit of bonds – it is a historical law that gives substance to the very existence of Incasòl – and also the amendment of Law 24/91, of housing. We have to do this in order to be able, therefore, to develop this objective which I will now explain to you, which is what we want: that the Catalan Institute of the Land, the Incasòl, can make the deposits of the bonds constituted in the contracts for the lease of different uses of housing that is added to the measure established in the Royal Decree Law 15/2020, of 21 April, of urgent complementary measures to give support to the economy and the occupation. With this modification, the exceptional measures approved by the Royal Decree will be able to be implemented, affecting these leases of urban estates that are always different from housing. According to the law decree, and so the one we also transfer, the lessor and the lessee can agree, they have to agree between them, to have the bond in half laid down to pay in whole or in part..., laid down as a contractual guarantee, eh? , but use it to pay in whole or in part some of the income monthly payments and return this import within a maximum of one year; therefore, provide cash to the butxaca, liquidity, to the system at a time of economic crisis. The petition to Incasòl has to be made by the lessor. And what was going on? In Catalonia, Law 13/96– before making reference – establishes that the bond is deposited with the Incasòl and regulates that this body can allocate up to 90_percent of the import of all the bonds provided for the creation of public housing and urban development; it is the driving force behind the same Catalan Institute of the Sól, along with the suppositionary transfers that can be made. It also establishes, therefore, complementary to the 90_per_cent, that an import of not less than 10_per_cent of these resources must be reserved to guarantee the payment of cancellations and refunds of discards when the contracts are completed. This is the case that must be taken to be able, therefore, to give answer from the Incasòl. Until now, there is no distinction between bonds made for housing or for urban estates of other uses, and precisely the modification that is now proposed, the decree that will eventually, therefore, this Parliament will validate, if the deputies and the deputies so agree, will allow the Incasól to differentiate these two types of entries, the bonds coming from housing and the bonds coming from urban estates of other uses, which the Incasól can create in its accounts differentiated parties and ensure that the ordinary instalments of returns are not adversely affected by the eventual decrease in the cash reserve. The Incasòl will be able to know – therefore, anticipate – the total import – and, therefore, the reserve that we will have to hold – of the bonds that correspond to the urban estates destined for other different uses of the habitation, the differences of the habitation – we are talking about premises basically, locals, nausea, etcetera, eh? –, and assign this 10_per_cent to attend to requests for temporary and exceptional refunds of pimes and autonomes that are required, whenever they believe that the requirements of the royal decree are fulfilled, and with agreement between the lessor and the lessee. I referred to urban policy, the empowerment of August and the engagement of Incasòl, and I would like, in the third place, to expose the whole relationship to the return of the engagements in concept of restoration of the extractive activities; it would be the environmental part. Why did we think of this measure? Extractive activities, which are certainly necessary for our activity, develop, have known environmental impacts, impacts that, for the characteristics of the open mining activity, which are ultimately extractive activities, are, at least temporarily, profoundly transformative of the territory; the landscapes change. We know from experience that this transformation is reversible – that is why there are restoration programs – and that the only one used for extractive activities can return to nature under conditions similar to the original– similar– conditions, or also adapting it to the new needs of society. We often find ourselves with restoration programs that do not reproduce exactly what there was, but they seek, so we find that with the passage of years they see themselves as, also, more favorable to all that is the conservation of the natural environment and the protection of biodiversity; often they come out fresh waters and create ecosystems, therefore, which should be preserved. Cal, therefore, that, precisely to guarantee this restoration, the holder of the mining activity constitutes a bond before starting the exploitation. This guarantee is responsible for the execution of the tasks of restoring penalties imposed for failure to comply with environmental protection measures, which may also be passed, as well as the direct or indirect damage and damage caused by the same extractive activity. Article 8.5 of Law 12/81, for which the additional standards for the protection of the areas of special natural interest affected by extractive activities are established, established that the return of the bond is not until the term of guarantee has passed, from three to five years, with this aim, therefore, to guarantee precisely that this restoration can be carried out. Explaining these precedents, now, in the midst of the pandemic, the Government has proposed that in this current context, which is difficult to affect for economic activity, it is considered that extraordinary measures can be urgently taken that, without jeopardizing the result of the restoration, allow flexibility – make it more flexible – the return of the bonds once the restoration has been completed satisfactorily. The decree we are bringing to validation today proposes that, once it has been done – once it has been done – the acceptance of restoration works, the person holding the activity can demand the return of 75_percent of the import of the concepts of bail that they have to see with the parties of the more structural restoration – we are talking about themes of geomorphology, hydrology, rebellions – and not with the parties – would be the remaining 25_percent – more difficult to find results in short term, such as reforestation; this part, logically, of bail is kept in the box of the Agency of Residus. This measure we believe will help the sector reactivate. It is an incentive, in short, for extractive activities, because they advance in their restoration in an integrated way to the exploitation of the resource itself; often, therefore, the exploitation was also connected to the restoration. It is a system, this one, more respectful of the environment, and we believe that with this measure, we will actually encourage it. The request to submit a copy has been made on the part of the Administration the acceptance of the restoration works and must be made, with any other request for return of bonds, for the web page of the Generality's Company Channel. There is a whole set of figures that has gone on, so, returning the years that preceded us, in 2016, 17, 18, 19, that show that with the empowerment of this measure we can mobilize money for this liquidity of the economic system of the country. Another group of activities that could be joined to this measure are the extractives that are currently found in the warranty period. They are the ones in which his restoration has been accepted by the Administration, but in which he has not yet finished the set time – that of three to five years – the authorization for the return of the bond. Currently there are 175 extractive activities in guarantee period, representing on the surface approximately 9_percent of the existing ones, i, from the point of view of the bonds that they have arranged in conjunction, could reach 5_million euros. Having made the same approach as being able to return 50_percent of the total bond, it would represent a potential maximum return to these 2.5_million euro holders, who need to be at the disposal of companies in this economic recovery that we need. Returning, therefore, from bonds to extractives; Incasól bonds to give liquidity to families and businesses, and enabling the month of August to encourage economic activity. Helping the country and, above all, the people who saw it: this is the intention of the decree we propose today in this room that can be validated. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.141.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the intervention of the groups and sub-groups to fix their position. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.142.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. It is strange to see this Parliament so empty. Let's hope we can get back to normal soon. Before going on to assess the decree, I wanted to reflect on the situation in which we are in. We are experiencing a serious health crisis that is leaving a huge wound in society, a wound that in many cases has no cure, because there is no cure for so many of our fellow citizens who have died as a result of the pandemic, and to whose families and relatives I want to convey my condolences. The wound could probably have been smaller if the public debate had been about what it had to be about, which is about the management of the public thing, and not about the trafficking of identity feelings. This time of confinement, of imprisonment, should have served to reflect on the values and approaches with which society is being directed, on the priorities, the fundamental, to discern the substance of the accessory. It would be wise not to confuse things from now on, because seeing the collapse of the health system, one remembers, of course, that a couple of years ago the spokesman of the main group supporting the Government said that discussing health was fighting for things that are not essential, and see if that is essential. Of course, he said: "No, the essential thing is self-determination. Well, let's hope this time and what we're living through, huh? ..., when it is said: "We are going to get better..., I hope; I am not very optimistic in that sense, but at least if we try to make the effort to give the reflection, because perhaps we can improve in that sense, can we not? Because in the end time, then, takes away and gives reasons, and it has already been seen that that was not reasonable. In that sense, well, it is everyone's responsibility also to raise the quality of discourse and focus on what guarantees well-being, which serves to combat poverty, and guarantees the economic and cultural progress of society. Well, after this reflection, I wanted to evaluate the decree, and the first thing is to state that the Government of the Generalitat does not consult the opposition at all before approving its decrees. The entire opposition would appreciate a certain willingness to meet to seek solutions to the current crisis. They continue without consulting anyone, and, well, perhaps it would be good if, especially in view of the serious situation in which we find ourselves, this would change. Now I am going to enter the decree and I am going to talk about article 1, which affects the consolidated text of the Urbanism Act. They suspend for this year the extension of a month that contemplates the text of the Law of Urbanism for the definitive resolution of figures of urban planning, when the deadline totally or partially coincides with the month of August. This seems reasonable and appropriate to us to try to compensate for the administrative paralysis, which is becoming..., well, becoming skilled in August to try to untie and recover the normality of the activity. But one thing is what the paper says and another what actually happens. It is not unusual when the Administration fails to meet the legal deadlines, and this causes much damage to citizens in general and to professionals; ultimately, to the efficiency of our political and economic system. At present there are very long waiting lists to consult documents in the municipal archives, where architecture and urbanism professionals come to document their projects, but also huge waiting lists to consult with many municipal technicians. With this, what I want to say is that, in order to pursue the objective of compensating for administrative paralysis, this remains, well, clearly insufficient. In article 2..., well, in this case the Government simply instructs to comply with a decree of the Government of Spain that the tenants of local buildings of different uses of housing will be able to redeem the bonds from the rents in order to face the partial or total payment of some monthly payment, provided that within one year the bond is replenished. The objective is adequate and goes in line with the conditions that Citizens have agreed with the Government of Spain to save lives and jobs, as well as to ensure greater social protection; subject in which the Government of the Generalitat could do much more if we take into account, therefore, that last May 18 announced a line of aid of 14_million_and_middle_of_euro for the payment of the rent to people affected economically by the crisis caused by the Covid-19, and in just two weeks they suspended the call because they were unable to meet the avalanche of applications. And that is wrong, because you will understand that in the face of such a situation, with so many people in need of help, you cannot put yourselves on hold, especially when the Vice-President of your Government says that ‘this crisis will not pay you the usual. Here we have it: the usual ones pay it, the people with the most precarious jobs, without savings or economic mattress that allows them to face the crisis. And at the moment nothing seems to indicate that others will pay it, because, well, the salaries were recently raised to the former presidents of the Generalitat, like Mas or Montilla. Nor have we seen any approach to making the Administration more efficient, reducing unnecessary bodies or duplication. On this point, it is also clear that the wording is very confusing; that is, there are some intentions stated by you in the explanatory statement, but when you read the text it causes a lot of uncertainty and a lot of mistrust. I mean, let's hope it's what's announced and not what's read, because you can end up reading the opposite of the goal you're pursuing. I mean, we'll be vigilant, anyway. As far as Article 3 of the finance for extractive activities is concerned, we have discussed before how important it is to preserve the environment, have we not? , thinking that this is undoubtedly an objective which can also serve the establishment of a new economic model, more respectful of the environment, and which will enable us to combat the challenges, as we have, with climate change and all these issues. But in the explanatory statement they say that in the current context they have considered that measures can be taken to make the return of bonds used as a guarantee for the correct restoration of areas of natural interest where extractive activities have been developed without jeopardizing the result of the restoration. But, you see, we have serious doubts about how they will guarantee the result of the restoration, because to know well the result of a restoration of this type it is necessary to observe its state in at least a complete seasonal cycle. Without this complete cycle, it is not easy to know how a filling will react, for example, or whether the vegetation that has been remedied in a natural space is not going to end up in waste. In the explanatory statement they say that it is a response to the current crisis situation, to ensure the solvency of companies, but do not give any data on the situation of companies with extractive holdings or their activity rates. Moreover, the legal amendment also does not state that this measure is of a temporary nature. I mean, this seems to be raised to install the, that is to say it goes beyond the juncture, which is what, well, we're dealing with here, which is the crisis juncture. Finally, the last article concerns the endowment of the Natural Heritage Fund, which they created in the 2017 budgets and which, well, is not yet in operation. Well, this also shows that management and forecasting need to be improved. For the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group this decree seems unfinished. In reality it seems to be an insufficiently worked draft, a clearly improved wording, with two points that give us many doubts, as is, above all, a matter of drafting, the Incasòl, and then a question of guaranteeing the public interest, that of the bonds on extractive activities. And then also the first, as I have already said, to combat the paralysis of the Administration, because it does not seem enough either. Despite this criticism, my group will abstain in the validation of this decree, because, even if what they are doing is insufficient to alleviate the hard effects of this crisis, worse than doing something insufficient would be doing absolutely nothing. But we are not going to support with our vote a clearly improved decree, which they do on their own, without having any opposition group, not even the one with which more Members and more citizens represent in this Chamber, as is the case with Ciutadans. I say good-bye wishing all your families were fine, that we'll get back to normal soon, and, well, thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.144.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, already announce that, despite some of the points that this decree touches, we have some view not as painful as the counsel explained to us, but rather some prevention, we will give support to the decree, eh? Why is it true that the state of alarm has kept the Administration and also the activities up to date, so a certain amount of time, and we need to recover part of this time that we've had the Administration paralyzed and up to date, huh? , basically on those issues that affect the same processes of the Administration of the Government of the Generality and that do not affect public exhibitions or other types of..., or other administrations respect their processing. I am referring, of course, to the part of the decree or the article of the decree that enables the month of August to maintain the activities of urban processing of the Generalitat, which exceptionally, therefore, will only be for this year 2020, and we understand that it must be so, huh? I don't know if there are divergent positions on this issue, but we understand that it has to be that way, at this couple of months that the Administration has been through. Regarding... – and then I will make a global intervention or a global reflection respect the engagements or the return of the Incasòl engagements – respect those parts of the engagements of the loguers that are not destined for habitating, eh? So to the rest of the activities, also to the engagements of extractive activities, here we have certainly some reservations, counselor. What do you mean? I get it, don't I? , that companies that are engaged in extractive activity or that, in this case, are engaged in restoration processes and that have other activities on the market, such as all sectors, need or need cash. Now, what we're doing or what you're doing – and here, all we're giving support to the decree, we certainly have some reservations – is assigning more responsibility to the same administration, huh? Or, he said in another way: if what the companies have done has not been done correctly and there are some problems and you have returned these bonds, what they are doing, what is necessarily involved is that the Administration has to take better care of what has been done, huh? And so, we're looking forward to it, in the sense that we believe that these shares of responsibility are increasing for the Administration, and we have to guarantee and we have to get old because, if these returns are made, they do with the maximum guarantees, huh? If any action has not been taken correctly, then the cost of recovery will be incurred in the Administration. And I wouldn't want to use some other legal figure who doesn't see the case right now, but what we're asking is that they're paying attention to the time to get back to this subject. You're gonna let me tell you that I can hear you, huh? , I can share this positive intention on the part of the council to inject economic resources into some sectors; it seems good to us. Now, they're pieces, "Tyrites, you're much less afraid, huh? , to reactivate the economic activity of the country or certain sectors of the country. We've been accustomed to each ple coming here... the government has become accustomed to starting to pass laws. I guess we're already wearing it... this is the split, late in the day to validate some more, and in the government council of yesterday, if I don't recall it badly, they didn't approve any more, too, huh? You have become accustomed to trying to bring certain actions forward by decree, and from our point of view this does not solve part of the problems that the country's economy has or can have; and when it says the country's economy I mean businesses and citizens. My parliamentary group... this morning, the chairman of my parliamentary group, when he was talking about education, when he asked the chairman the question, so he was already asking questions about the subject, huh? , or fund rectifications; I also have to ask for fund rectifications from you, because he is the representative of the Government. Don't get used to trying to solve by decree the problem we have at the top of the table, and what we need to bring to Parliament is to explain to us how they will reorient the generality's premise, because at hours of this time we don't know in what terms and with what depth, huh? It must be transparent in this matter, not decreed by law, or transparency, above all the Vice-President of the Government, who is the one who has the keys of the premise and who at these times has them with bread and stuffed. We don't know anything. It's better said, we have the impression, huh? This Member has the impression that he does not carry the presumption or the correction of the provisions of the presumption to Parliament and explaining it with lights and stenographers... Then we can agree or not, but I believe that the Catalan society, the country's joint venture, the companies, the families, the people, the deputies and the deputies, we need to know this correction that has been announced that it will be produced, that we do not know the terms, but we find ourselves with the surprises – I will not exhaust the two minutes, eh? , I will end here – you would say that, in every trip that the vice president makes for the territory of the country, therefore, he started to make announcements, right? : « In this sector we will inject ics million – this week announced that in the vi sector, therefore, we will inject around 6_million euros... We have, then, a certain aroma, eh? , electoral campaign by the Government or some members of the Government. I don't have any laws. Explain with transparency and clarity who are the priorities with which they want or believe that the Generality's premise needs to be changed and rectified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.146.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we are debating this Decree on Urgent Measures in the Field of Urbanism, Finance and the Environment. Well, now he's referring to it: it's a new decree of this kind, isn't it? I don't know..., of this endless production of decrees made by the Government of the Generality, that we have the feeling that they are unrelated decrees; moreover, they have no dialect, no negotiation with parliamentary groups, and more without sense between decrees, between one another, and the measures they adopt. This has four articles... well, it's actually three, because then I'll talk about the last one, but it's actually a decree with a very pompous name, which I think is actually very poor, with related measures, a little ambitious and, more importantly, mistaken, right? I believe that it is a decree that shows that it is an exhausted, broken government, unable to lead the reconstruction that Catalonia needs and that it is more pending of the competition and the needs of the parties than the needs of the country. And I'm not angry, but I have the feeling that this decree is more of an auto-bomb decree of its electoral campaign to lead together for Catalonia than a decree of urgent measures of urbanism, of finance and environmental, for the same content of the decree and for the abst of the decree, which I gave it before it's very poor and it's wrong, right? Entering the content of the decree, well, I don't know, I believe that in the first place Article 1 – you refer to it – on the need that the month of August in this case can be given continuity to urban processes..., which is more than that of general interest, you said. But I want to remember that during the Covid there were also decisions taken by his Government, and in this case also the commissions of Urbanism at the territorial level, which are against the general interest, and that there has been a lot of controversy and that they have come close. For example, we could talk about the motorway, in this case, of Sant Pere de Ribes. And finally, even the Greuges Synod told him and asked him to withdraw this point from the decree. Yes, he asked, I read it literally: "Remember the Synod of Greuges that the general interest must prevail before the real estate interests and tell him that all media that favor the intervention of everyone in the elaboration of the planning is a guarantee of a consensual urbanism and that takes into account the needs of the country. Therefore, the first article that you are making already has the criticism as to the sindic of Greuges, and we understand that, well, it gives less guarantees for the public debate and for the debate, in this case, of the society's joint decision on urban decisions that are sometimes taken. And I put it as an example of what happened with the Sant Pere de Ribes motorway project. And then I want to refer to Article 3, which is the modification of the fiances regime of the extractive activities. And you're referring to it: it's certainly one of the activities that have a bigger environmental impact. So I do not understand why the great measure or measure that is being taken, in this case, of urgent environmental measures is to reduce guarantees and environmental protection in an issue that generates an impact, I would say, important and that, besides, well, the term of guarantee of interventions..., we understand that it is necessary to wait for the restoration to be effective. And so we don't understand what it takes to..., well, as I said now: it's to say, of a measure that it's a piece, that it won't really be used to reactivate the economic situation at the level of Catalonia and, ultimately, a measure that has a very large environmental impact and that we don't understand why the Generality has to place it as a priority in a decree that actually only has four articles, right? , and which went more in the direction of what the councillor announced, in this case, in an appearance that we made to the Commission of Territories and the environment, that I do not know if it was, as if we say, the first step towards this law that the councillor announced to us that he wanted to reduce the urbanist and environmental standards, and that I do not know if he went further in the line of walking to what is, in this case, the Government of Andalusia or the Government of Madrid, to reduce, well, the urbanist conditions, which I believe are necessary in this case. And I also... and I honestly say that, we've talked about it some time: I think the department is a little disoriented, huh? I'm telling you honestly. Because..., I said to her: look, it's a mistake to make a general downfall of the water canon for two months; it has an impact of 50_million euros, and then, when, for example, we have a situation, I would say, very hard as it is to access habitat, its department does not have the resources to complement in this case you help the loguer, because, as you decided to spend 50_million euros fruit of your electoral campaign, because it's much easier to do that, that is, to apply directly to the bill for fifty_months..., and to lower the return of water to you, to me, to the Speaker of Parliament or to President Torra. So, they don't feel the measures you're taking. Besides, there is no general debate of which country is the first need. Because if you, for example, wanted to make, say, a bet on the environmental context of the climate emergency, then perhaps you would have a lot more sense that some of these resources have been abetted, for example, to set aside in this case urgent interventions that due to lack of resources we could not put off the table, such as the plan of the Tarragona Camp tram train, that would also have an impact of economic reactivation, that we have a company like Alstom in Catalonia, we could talk, for example, about energy rehabilitation, we could also talk about the deployment of photovoltaics to Catalonia... I mean, so when it comes to urgent environmental measures, right? I have the feeling that the urgent measure is a measure that cuts across the environmental conditions of Catalonia, in this case with extractive activities, that it doesn't feel like we're starting here, and more that they have an environmental impact, I would say, brutal, which is extractive activities, and more it's more complicated that they can regenerate, right? And then I think there's another element that I think proves that it's a government that doesn't touch the wills, that it's a broken and divided government, that the fourth article is an article that's already in the Nature Agency, and that they introduced it into this decree because they don't believe that in the end Republican Left ended up blocking the Nature Agency. They then bring us an article that they have already approved in the previous law and placed in this decree because they do not trust their governing partners. So, there's no way we've made a four-article decree that actually one of these four articles is already in the Nature Agency and that they placed it in the law because they didn't believe that at the end of the Republican Left ended, so falling the Nature Agency. And that's the decree. So, there are three articles of which two are going to detail, in this case, both the environmental measures of Catalonia as well as the urban conditions. So, well, I don't know if that's basically what the government's orientation has to be. That's why we'll vote no. We believe that what is reasonable is that there is a debate about the entire government's package – here it is referred to now – with a dialogue and a negotiation of the content of the decrees, as at least, and also whose proposals are for reconstruction. Secondly, I think there must be ambition, and therefore I also have a reconstruction project, which I believe this government does not have; it has a demolition project between, basically, the two governing partners. And, ultimately, I don't think the big one, do I? , out of crisis continue to start with environmental reductions; because, as much as the decree speaks of urgent measures in environmental matters, the great measure of this..., which is flowing, but the great measure of this decree flows, poor, is basically a flap of environmental rights. And, therefore, I do not know whether the way the Government of the Generality wants to begin is to assemble, as we said before, more in Andalusia and, in this case, in the Community of Madrid than the way we must follow. Therefore, in the end, we believe that this decree does not have much meaning, and that is why we will vote that no, they understand that we believe that an urgent reorientation of who are their priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.148.0	Good morning again. Reference has been made or other Members have made reference to this Decree 18/2020..., in which we carry the legislature..., well, the question of the decrees that the Government is pushing: we carry forty-eight decrees. It is obvious that the context of the health crisis has made that in which we carry twenty-three years. But today we want to put on the table this question about the capture or how the Government of the Government of Catalonia is, from our point of view, beginning to abuse this mechanism from the Execution, and to interpret it as a certain reduction in parliamentary responsibility and in its representation. We want to move and take advantage of this moment to move this concern. On the other hand, for what he does to the decree, many things have already been said, right? "Emergency measures in the field of urban planning, financial and environmental matters. The name is good that it doesn't do the thing, because when you look at it it's not coherent; or, from our perspective, these aren't the urbanism and environmental finance emergencies. It's not the priority, and it's been said. First, on the first article – declaring the month of August fit for urban processing – we believe that this affects other issues, such as the running of time in the shadow of a holiday; it affects the workers and workers of the department and the elected organs and their right to vacation in the summer; it is dysfunctional in the court proceedings that may arise – if it has been declared fit, it will remain a very low activity – and certainly with an opinion against the professionals of the legal environment. And all this leads us to think or lead us to apply a prudence criterion, a prudence criterion in relation to enabling agusta as best as possible, because in fact it makes urban processes even more opaque and less involved. And, therefore, we apply this prudence criterion. But also, and we say it sincerely – it will not surprise people, counselor – for us and for the movements in defense of the territory, from ecology, there is also a criterion that crosses and that makes us vote that not this decree, that it is a very deep distrust of public policies that drive in relation to the environment, and concretely to you. We don't trust you, we don't trust you for the public policies that you drive, for the public policies that you don't drive, and for the hostility that you have shown with regard to all those collections, plataforms in defense of the territory, that have been many and repeated, despite the fact that you use this double well..., right? , a double face in relation to what we call ecologism. And, therefore, we suspect that, in the name of ease and agility, we should approve this measure in August. And so it has been said: we believe that what it takes is to expand the spaces of participation, to be less opaque... And I'm also referring to one of the examples... that I put this example on the table, but I could put a lot more on it, right? : the urban project of the Autòdrom Terramar, at the Garraf, that I disconnect now if you have the word all followed, but we would like you to explain to us, because there is a concern, the people of the territory tell us, that has approved with night and tradition, to say the least. And we want to ask him. Therefore, in this sense we do not trust you, we do not trust that the August is a _me capable to be able to combine citizen participation and the need to pull forward urban projects. On Article 3, the return of 75_per_cent of bonds in new cases, with the exception of new cases of extractive activities once accepted by the workers, we believe that we should maintain a guarantee criteria for activities affecting the territory. And, we insist, in the matter of land management, there is no exception to a rule, because then we end up lamenting it. And, therefore, neither do we. And in general terms, for what it does to the questions in Article 4, which have already been discussed and which in the past have already felt me talking, right? It's a symptom; it's a symptom that when we saw it, it also graced us, it was: "Ostres, it's actually maybe Republican Left won't support the agency of nature, because it was like a B plate in itself, isn't it? I don't want these funds to be gifted. And it's actually a symptom of what's already been said, isn't it? , of really a high degree of mistrust between the governing partners and the effects they have on the strategy and the challenges we have as the country. I'm done. Now I have as a headline report a very interesting report published by Critic and by Manel Riu, which is entitled "What's left to do with the Climate Change Law. And, in this sense, I would like to take advantage of this moment too. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I'm finishing, president – for a little bit... We don't agree with the certain cophoism with which the public policies put in place their department, because the Climate Change Law, the legal basis for protecting the climate in Catalonia, has not yet been deployed; the strategic framework, pending approval; carbon footprint, still without regulation; social table, in public consultation; renewable energies, only consumes an 8,5_per_cent; Residue Law, two years of delay in approval; education, timid steps in awareness; infrastructure, without environmental assessments of the courts, and greetings, follow-up experts' committee to assess the risks, that's the best note. I insist, I quote these points in relation to the analysis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.149.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.150.0	...that made Manel Riu the Critic. So, don't lay the backs of this cophoism that we really believe that what you're doing is dismantling everything that you've done in the previous legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.151.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.152.0	... for what it does to measures to cope with the climate emergency. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.154.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, I will come to talk to you about what practically has not spoken to anyone, just Mr. Sanz, of Ciutadans, because I believe that the important core of this decree is precisely Article 2, of which no one has ever spoken. And to the councilman and the government, I think we need to recognize an important merit, that it's to say some things, and even put some things in motion, and then do some very different things. So..., I look at you, but I don't tell you, huh? What we approve of today, Mr. Sanz, is not what the counselor says. What we will approve is what the article of the decree law says, and I read literally: "The Català del Sòl Institute can limit the import of bonds to return in execution of the measure to which it refers – it is to say, to the measure of facilitating liquidity to small, small and medium-sized enterprises that have local registered –, « to 10_per_cent. I mean, you don't approve of a liquidity measure. What you're doing is limiting the liquidity measure approved by the state government under the royal decree. What they do is limit it. And why do they do that? Well, I'm sure there's a reason why they do it. They will have found themselves – we don't have concrete figures from Catalonia; there are estimates of the conjunction of Espanya – that approximately 20_percent of the trading venues, usually small businesses, usually autonomous ones, have had to close the doors, and they have had to return bonds, and that is a lot of money; returning the bonds of a 20_percent of trading venues are a lot of money for those who retain these bonds, which is the Catalan Institute of Salt. I ask myself – rhetorical, because we do not have a return to the government respecting these questions – whether that measure that we discussed a few weeks ago in this very Parliament to facilitate direct sale by the Incase without a prior bid had anything to do with the fact of having greater liquidity or having liquidity more quickly in order to be able to face certain obligations. Now what they do is limit the liquidity measure. You, the Incase has 100_percent of the engagements. It seems good to us already – it seems good to us – that it preserves those bonds that make reference to habitats, it seems good to us, but what does not seem good to us is that, in order not to "squeeze the treasury and liquidity of the Incasòl, what you do is limit those measures that can help save small businesses, that can help save jobs, that can help save autonomous lives. And that's what we don't share with this decree under the heading of argument. Mirin, we can hear about August and we can get to it, that urban planning can be processed during the month of August, exceptionally, we can hear about it. That it is possible to return fiances partially for restoration in case of activities..., we can get to hear it – we can get to hear it. Article 4 does not include it, because it is stuck here like a piece; it has nothing to see, the foundation of the natural heritage, neither with the Covid, nor with the emergence, nor with the environment, nor with finances, nor with anything else. He's stuck here like a piece. But what we cannot share is that, few are the measures taken by the Government of the Generality to help small businesses in Catalonia to survive, using the law's decree to impose a restriction that the only one that benefits is the Incasól and not the product fabric or the small trade in Catalonia, which is detrimental to this measure and this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Congressman Marc Sanglas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.156.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, there are still Members and Members, in any case, let me, before starting this intervention, a record for the victims of the Covid and his relatives, who have suffered this loss in this health and humanity crisis, and who are not easy, let us say, to recover it. That said, surely, and if I may be joking, Mr. Counselor, surely in this text I am not constrained by emotion, as in the case of agency, it is to say that... [[Widow's remorse.]] We could see how, say it, little people... and someone was talking about it, we had a chance to talk about the decree, and there was a lot of other things. Some of the Members who preceded me in his intervention said that they were electoral announcements. I believe that someone has marked well the thirty-seconds of the advertising falcon to record an election propaganda announcement, and so let's just say, I believe that everyone has taken advantage of the mechanisms, which are there, which are in their abst, to explain who are their different proposals. It is true, I will not deny that, let's say it, and some other Member also said it, in some questions, surely, it is a little thick. It's a law decree, a little thick. And someone is complaining, let's face it, about the fact that the former government passed laws. We're in one, let's say, health emergency, we're with the country paralyzed. Has anyone understood this question? It is obvious that it is not the best way to govern and that we must look for the best mechanisms of participation. But is anyone laying where we are? Does anyone want to look at how many people there are in this hemisphere where we're supposed to be- there's 135 MPs? It's a reflection. And then everyone's making their political speech. And that doesn't mean we have to share the totality of a few things, and in any case, I'll expose it, but it's obvious that we put it..., and we put ourselves in what context we are, or hardly some things can be heard. It's obvious that we did, that we had to issue decrees, but it's the way, let's say, that we had to function when in many cases there were activities..., and yet the record that there is a part of the country, or the whole country, still, we are at various stages, limiting our mobility, limiting our ability to act, and, unfortunately, we believe that we will be there for longer. So, tell us, we think this will happen. That said, the counselor was announcing us in his later intervention, in his later appearance, the need..., or not in his later, because the later one seems to me to have been about mobility, if I do not recall badly, in the past, the possibility of an omnibus law. I've already said it, and I repeat it, let's just say, that the theme of the bus is not a theme that we like, huh? especially, and, therefore, also, if this must be the mechanism by which some modifications are to be made, in any case we can talk. You, in your moment, said that we would talk about it, and therefore from this point of view we believe that it will do so, before, let's say, there are no changes from this point of view. And, therefore, we'd appreciate it if we would just, say, this debate so that we can talk enough, huh? For what it does to the first article – and let's start to evaluate them one by one –, on the suspension of the temporary effectiveness of the additional provision draws from the text recast of the Law of Urbanism, in which, let's say, count and debate, what ends is that in those cases that additional provision seven that allows or does not allow urban processing if a part of the journey falls in the month of August, will have to earn one more_month. For us this preview of the Law of Urbanism is very important, and, frankly, when we saw this preview we took it initially with a certain fear. Why? Because we understand that, let's say, in this country, and certainly in much earlier stages, but it has been so, surely there has not been a management, let's say, of urban planning as well as it should be, and therefore the debate of some urban projects, let's say, was complicated. Therefore, the introduction of this provision to the Law of Urbanism we believe is a great question, and we believe, from this point of view, that we rejoice, in any case, that the effects are limited to the year 2020, understand, obviously, that there is an exceptionality of the moment, and that, therefore, it is clear that this measure is limited to the year 2020. We believe, too, that it is important that the sphere, let us say, of affectation of the modification only affects the urbanist organs of the Generality, that they have a collegiate character, and, therefore, let us say it, other decisions are made. Therefore, it is also evident that in the area of urban planning commissions there is an ample representation, also, let us say, of different actors, that, therefore, they also have the capacity to say their own, and let us understand that, let us say, that the joints have been shut down, from this point of view, it is also positive, so as not to generate pressure on the same joints and also in possible cases, that they will certainly not be donated, but in case someone has the time, let us say it, to start processing or approve processing in summer periods. We believe that this has to be allowed or allowed to bring forward some questions in these weeks, where, as the Councillor pointed out, it has produced from, let us say, the different standards approved by the Government of the State on administrative procedures..., it has allowed some projects that we believe are of interest. Therefore, we believe that it is an appropriate measure and that in any case what is needed is to keep this dialogue at the territorial level, as some other parliamentary groups have asked, as we have always asked for – in fact, it is not new –, dialog in some projects, great projects, which there is in the territory that, sometimes, let us say to ourselves, have an impact on the land. For what it does, let us say, to the measure, the modification of Article 2, on the subject of bonds and the return of bonds in the field of Decree Law 15/2020, we believe that there has already been a debate, has explained it enough to the councillor in this matter. We believe that what this measure is trying to do is to apply a good management of public resources and also to promote the different situations, and in any case to give tools to the Incasól so that it can manage more correctly the whole field of these engagements. For what it does in the field of activities, the modification of the system of engagements of the extractive activities, without, let's say, bite-in of ears, as would usually be said and colloquially, if we allow the expression, we understand that it can be a measure that advances. But we are already telling him that we would be pleased that this measure also has a limited abst in time. We believe that we have gone a long way in this area and that, therefore, let's say, from this point of view we believe that when we can return to the previous situation, which is from which we come, it would be interesting. Mr. Cid, I want to do something about it, which I think has not been read correctly; that is, this is from the restoration– this is from the restoration– and it is in the warranty period. Therefore, it is not that things are done in myths; it is to say, we have looked at it with care. And I feel what I'm asking for, that we resume this warranty period and that during this warranty period we can maintain this situation. But we understand that if they are measures to help liquidity, it seems good to us whenever, let's face it, we insist, this is limited in time. And for what it does to the modification of the foundation of natural heritage and biodiversity, as you have taken advantage of..., I say to you, that you are very concerned about the marriage relationships of this government, which, in any case, this government of the moment has solid. We'll see about that. Anyway... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Mr. Cid, don't fight. Don't fight, Mr. Cid, don't fight. It's that, as in any couple relationship, they have moments of discussion. What do the state government have to explain to him? Or, let's say, do you in your relationship with the Socialist Party at the level of the Government of the State maintain a cordial relationship at all times? Anyway, we believe... and I insist, Mr. Cid was talking about a demolition decree. They don't think so. In any case, I have already explained to them that we believe that it is true that every department that has done is to work in its areas that are most affected; that they have taken action in each of the areas that each department manages, and that what has tried to do is to give measures, mechanisms, help to deal with the outcome of this economic and social crisis in which we are immersed, and that what the Government of the Generality is trying to do is to limit its effects, with the resources of which we have and with other resources that we hope will soon arrive in the country, and that in some cases we believe that we will already have these resources in an ordinary way and that in any case we have to wait for them to arrive in Europe or to arrive in Spain. And we hope that, in this sense, the Government of the Spanish State will take into account the financial effort that this country has made to combat all this health emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.158.0	Thank you. Well, good morning, Counsellor Calvet. MPs, MPs... so we also announced, as it could not otherwise be, the vote in favour of this decree. I listened carefully to the positions of the rest of the Members and Members, and, indeed, the laws, therefore, are not the best way of regulating and of a democratic function, are they not? , democratic quality. But we're in a pandemic situation. And, therefore, in the same way that the Spanish Government approves legislative decrees – we have a statute of autonomy, which precisely one of the novelties was to provide for the possibility that the autonomous communities may issue legislative decrees – so I think we need to be understood with the pandemic situation and, therefore, that the Government carries legislative decrees to validate Parliament. And I'm sure that when there's a normal situation, that will automatically decrease. On the other hand, when Mr Terrades referred to it, who spoke of the objectives of the decree, I think they are humble. In the end, the councillor, I believe, is the first law that carries, of measures that have addressed from the councillor, from the urban sphere, from the media environment, so as to facilitate and so as to reactivate the economy as much as possible, to preserve places of work, and, therefore, I believe that when they attribute many decrees to it, therefore, it will not be the case, in this case, of the territorial councillor. I believe that, in the background, and with this there will also be some Member who will agree – and, in fact, in some telematic meeting with the parliamentary group, we have commented with Councillor Calvet – that the field of urban planning, city uses, rehabilitation policies, mobility, and so on – and, in fact, there have already been studies that are being published – will have an effect. And when you were talking about country consensus, about debates, about reconstruction, so, in this area, we will have to approach them and surely there will be normal changes – normal changes – after having experienced this pandemic, where we are living..., so that they will pass through the Council, and therefore have all the compromise of Parliament. I believe that, in the end, this decree reads what they claim is: it has detected some needs, some needs that affect..., and they improve and claim, therefore, to put the maximum policy to reactivate and preserve jobs, and that's what it does. In the first aspect, I do not share what the deputy of the PP gave, as yesterday; that the statement of motive I believe that, in fact, makes article 1, article 2, article 3, statement of motive, and is already in the decree of law. So, I think there's a..., it's comparable what's placed in the law decree in the motivating statement with the articles it regulates, and so I don't think I'm saying one thing and doing another absolutely. The first measures in relation to the processing: amends the Law of Urbanism of Catalonia, only to the effects of the year 2020, so that the month of August, which is indeed a rare opinion, can be able to handle the effects of urban dispatchers. It is worth saying, because it is important, that this change does not imply a minority of the urban guarantees of the control of opportunity, of the control of legality, nor of the control of the fund of the consignors and the urbanizations. Therefore, some of the doubts expressed here are absolutely unjustified, because what is done is to enable a_me, but..., no control guarantees. It also enables the possibility of telematic commissions, territorial commissions of urbanism. And, therefore, it is only for this year 2020, this exception to the processing of planning instruments. And, for that, the will is to facilitate, to speed up, etcetera. The second element of the decree is, in effect, the issue of the bail-out of urban estates contracts, which, in fact, is that the Incasól has not been put to rest, and with this differentiation from the type of estates, which until now has not been foreseen, therefore, with a series of conditions and guarantees, can be old because both pimes and fiances that are not related to the actual urban estates can be developed. And thirdly..., and I say this in order not to repeat things that have already been said, that we agree, in this case, with the Sanglas deputy; the third point of the decree is the bonding regime that refers to extractive activities. Here too I say that the restoration regime I think must also be very guaranteed, right? We have a case law that tells us that restoration is difficult, but not impossible, and we have a lot of cases, huh? , far from the Catalan territory, restoration. And, therefore, I think that doesn't touch it either. So, these suspicious warranties, so no, it doesn't. And what he does is he's getting old for this fiancee restoration, too, depending on the case. And we also see it as a measure that neither affects nor assumes any minority of environmental policies. And, in addition, when we have just approved the Law of the Agency of Nature, I don't think criticism is added to reality. And finally, when reference is made – that I see it has also been controversial – to the Climate Change Law, the forecasts of the 2017 Law of Presumptives, I believe that here it does not refer so much to a question of government mistrust, because at the end the decree approves it by the Government, but it does refer to certain presumptive parties that derive from the 2017 Law of Presumptives, and they make reference – I tell you, so that they can eliminate these suspicions – to the background of the technical and human means required for their management. And that's basically the intervenors, who sometimes see holes in the presuppositional parties, and this is a presuppositional game hole that with this approval will be able to execute, which, if not predicted, this presuppositional game could not be executed. Therefore, there are no suspicions, in relation to the previous approval of the Law of the Agency of Nature, but it is most effective to exhaust the presuppositional parties that had been provided for in the 2017 Presupposition and which we now have in the 2020 Presupposition approved. Therefore, we will give you the favourable vote. And, in this country debate, urban planning, city uses, mobility and planning instruments, and I also hope that we can debate here in your Parliament, so that will be a consensus of the country, beyond a decree for concrete and timely measures in the urban and media environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.159.0	Thank you, Member, and to the parliamentary groups. After the debate, as I have already done, we will vote on this validation of the decree at the end of today's session, when we will vote on all points of the order of the day that have been debated during this day. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the World Day of Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome]] [[401-00037/12]] Before suspending the plenary this afternoon, we will now read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with a motion for the World Day of Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. And to ask for it to the third secretary, Mrs. Vílchez, who reads it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.160.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the World Day of Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. On May 12, World Fibromyalgia Day and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome will be celebrated. For this reason, the Catalonian Parliament again expresses its commitment to this day, which is celebrated by the world, and the need to continue working for the impulse of research, for training and for social awareness, so necessary to eliminate the social stigma that, unfortunately, today is still detected in the social, family and work environment of people affected by fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome, which makes it more necessary than ever to normalize these diseases. The Catalonian Parliament also expresses its recognition to all affected persons, who, dissociatedly, still find themselves with misunderstanding and the scourge of unbelief and discrimination, both motivated by a lack of awareness of how these chronic diseases affect the people who suffer them. They are diseases of which the etiology is still unknown, which have a high prevalence and which affect mostly the female population. This gender bias now leads to a double discrimination of the person concerned: one gang, for the sake of being a woman, and the other, in the case of men, because men attribute them, erroneously and disparately, a malaise considered to be women. The Parliament of Catalonia again appeals to the empathy of people, civil society and the public authorities of Catalonia to adhere to this day, to understand the complexity of the problem that lives and suffers more than 3 per cent of the people of Catalonia, and to work effectively to ensure that the year has advanced in the search and approach of these diseases. Palau del Parlament, June 17, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.161.0	Thank you, secretary. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of two in the middle and twelve minutes and resumed at three in the afternoon. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the Second Vice-President, the First and Second Secretaries and the Fourth Secretary. The secretary-general and the late Ferran Domínguez Garcia attend the Bureau.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.162.0	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's resume the session. [[Decree Law 20/2020 of 26 May, on which various measures are taken in the field of sports as a consequence of the state of alarm decreed by reason of the Covid-19]] [[203-00046/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate on the validation of Decree 20/2020 of May 26, for which various measures are taken in the field of sports as a consequence of the state of alarm decreed by reason of the Covid-19. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President's Counsellor will first intervene to explain the reasons for which she has promoted this decree. It has the word, first place, Councilwoman Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.163.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, one more week, so it is up to us to compare here, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, to present a new law, in this case in the field of sports, so that it is validated for this chamber. It was just two weeks ago, here too, in Parliament, that they were asked to validate another law, also in the field of sports, and at that time they were told that one of the sectors that had suffered most from this health crisis had been the sports sector. And it is for this reason that, since the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and through the Secretary General of Sport and Physical Activity, we have worked together with the sector to collect first-hand what are the problems that are being painted, and we have been at the side of our country's entities, with the aim of promoting a set of measures to help mitigate these effects in all sports entities and to put in common concrete actions to do so. One of these concrete actions has been the creation of a sectoral work table with the convocation of the highest representatives of the sports sector of Catalonia. The sectoral table for sport was set up on 9 April and met fortnightly to share all those difficulties and to be able to channel all the concerns and demands of the sport sector. The table, which is formed by eighty-five entities, represents all the agents of the catal sport fabric who have to do with the organization and promotion of the practice of physical activity and sport in Catalonia, from the municipalist sector to the generalist sports entities, also passing through all those enterprises and associations of entrepreneurs that promote fitness and the practice of physical activity, also the clubs of all areas of Catalonia, the Catalan sports federations, the sports councils of Catalonia and the representatives of all the organizations that integrate the General Secretariat of Sport and Physical Activity. The government has used this table with a double objective. In the first place, in order to be able to transfer to the sector all that information and all the actions that the government has been carrying out, driven in this case by this pandemic. And secondly, to collect first-hand and share the concerns of the sport sector, and in this way to be able to act according to the needs of the agents who are part of it, and also to be able to propose solutions that adapt to the needs of the sector. Among the recurring demands and needs of the sporting entities and which are reflected in this sectoral table of the sport, it means that the most demanding have been the economic and liquidity aspects of the entities and the adaptation of the regulations to ensure their functioning. In fact, the Decree Law 8/2020 of 24 March has already incorporated a whole series of immediate and exceptional measures to make the sport sector more flexible and more efficient. And as a consequence of the evolution of this pandemic, as well as in the framework of the process of descaling and transition to this new stage at which we now find ourselves, it is considered necessary to adapt and adopt new measures aimed at facilitating the functioning of sports entities and professionals in the sector, as well as of rescue and water rescue. Before I enter the detail of this decree, which I come to present to you today, let me also make an important point, and it is the fact that the decree does not specifically speak of economic aspects that does not mean that the government has neglected this important demand of the sport sector. In fact, fifteen days ago, in the debate and validation of Decree 15/2020, for which the Catalan Council of Sport is authorized to provide guarantee during this financial year 2020 up to a maximum global amount – it must be remembered – of 8_million euros in favour of the Catalan Institute of Finance for the setting up of loans to facilitate the liquidity of sports entities registered in the Register of Sports Entities of Catalonia, also affected by the situation arising from the Covid-19..., and that this is a measure that will facilitate the availability of liquidity by providing loans to these sports entities. In addition, we have also had to carry out other actions in order to ensure and to extend the allocation of grants to the sports sector. After speeding up all the administrative procedures for controlling grants, the Català de l'Esport Council also made payments to sports entities worth 1.870.000_euro, i.e. 20_percent of previous years' calls in different programs. Therefore, from the government we are working to provide the entities with new tools and also resources so that they can continue to feel the pillar around which the practice of sport in our country, here in Catalonia, revolves. But economic demand is not the only requirement of these entities. And, leaving aside this point, it is considered necessary to adopt nine measures aimed at facilitating the functioning of all sports entities and also of professionals in the rescue and water rescue sector. And according to these needs is dictated this decree law, which is structured into three chapters. In the first place, a new moratorium is laid down for the application of the sanctioning regime established for Law 3/2008, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport, in relation to the professionals of rescue and water rescue. The current situation caused by the Covid-19 makes the uncertainty in the conditions under which the opening of the swimming pools or platges is produced this summer, and all the problems arising in the formation of professional us..., forces us to take this exceptional measure. In this context, it is not possible to meet all the needs of rescuers planned for the next season, that is, for this season of this summer, that would endanger the safety of users of the corresponding swimming pools and platges of the Catalan territory. In total, 9,270 rescuers are at these times in a position to work in plagiarism and swimming pools this summer, to be carried out in special conditions these tasks and to follow, remember, specific protocols of expansion, hygiene and safety; therefore, the suspension of this sanctioning regime is considered necessary, established by the law that I have mentioned to them, because it does not entail a consequent administrative sanction, which would further harm this severely affected sector. Secondly, actions related to the functioning of sports entities are established, making their functioning more flexible and adopting measures that preserve the continuity of the entities and the need for persons responsible for those entities to be appropriately qualified and empowered. In these actions they highlight the empowerment of the bodies of the entities so that they can hold their sessions with compliments of the health measures in place, and also limited, as to their object, to the deliberation and approval of questions that guarantee the exceptional functioning of the entity. It also enables the joint directives to make the necessary arrangements to ensure their essential functioning, as a consequence of the health crisis, before the difficulty of holding assemblies at these times. And, thirdly, the last standard change envisaged in this decree refers to the rationalization of the sport fabric with the impulse of a legislative change that, assuming the demands made by us from the same sector, wants to ensure the survival of the sports entities of Catalonia and strengthen them to focus on this post-Covid-19 horizon, to take a step also in its modernization. Transitional character measures are taken to deal with this modernisation and simplification of sports entities, so that they can merge, dissolve or transform themselves to the effect that they are properly structured to meet the needs of the moment and avoid such situations as may endanger their liquidation, as well as the responsibility arising from their directives. In this sense, it is intended to adapt the rules of the sports entities of Catalonia to the forecasts of the third book of the Civil Code of Catalonia contained in articles 314.1, 2 and 3, still offering the possibility of optimising their structures, including both clubs and federations. Therefore, here today, with this decree, we are carrying a whole set of concrete measures directed at the sport sector that show how the Government of Catalonia has been working, and we are working, to be able to give a whole set of responses, asked for the same sector, and aged at all times for a revival of the sport sector in Catalonia, in order to mitigate the effects that the coronavirus pandemic is having on the sport fabric of our country. For these reasons we bring today this decree to the consideration of the chamber and ask for its validation. I would not end up without thanking the dedication and strength of the Catalan sports sector, its generosity and its commitment, and the excellent coordination and work that we are having these days between them and the Government of Catalonia. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.164.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then we move on to the intervention of the groups. He has the word, for a maximum of two minutes, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Javier Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.165.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, good afternoon to all. A previa. Hey, June 17th, Aran's Hesta. My land. I can't attend, I'm here, it's obvious. I am not here by chance; I am here because in the last elections to this Parliament of Catalonia Citizens destroyed in my land, in Aran. And since then, therefore, it is an honor to be in representation and in defense of the interests of the Aranes. I don't know if you know, counselor, Aran's anthem. It's called the Aranian Mountains. The first stanza says: "Aranian mountains/as many nautes are,/I can't see/minus love to or sound. It's a song of..., a story of isolation, an isolation to which the Aranes never want to return. But we're going for the decree. There's three parts. One is of the water rescuers; we already validated it last year and the previous one, and it seems to me that the previous one. I don't know, I've lost count. This is like the movie of the day of the marmot: until we do things right, we will go repeating, and repeating, and repeating, and we will never end, without moving forward in the real solution of the problem. My friend Pau Donés always said that we have to..., hurry to live. Not to live in a hurry or to live in a hurry, but to be in a hurry to live. His life was music, and sadly this week has stopped ringing in his head, from his heart. Our life, counselor, at the moment is not music, is politics, but I do remember Pau's words: "We must be in a hurry to live and to do our job, understanding politics and our job as a passion to solve citizens' problems. Last year we did not oppose this decree, to avoid major evils: that they could not be..., that the pools could be opened, that the beaches would not lose flags and, above all, that there would be security towards bathers, right? And I remember that, in the wording, you said it was the last extension of the suspension of this sanctioning regime of the Sports Professions Act, and a year later we were back here. They haven't done their homework. And now they're telling us it's about the Covid issue. Hey, you guys are amazing. It is the fault of the European Union, it is of Spain, it is of the judges, it is of the entrepreneurs, it is of the journalists..., and now it is of the Covid. Everyone's to blame but you. Look, from the Citizens' Group we have always tried to contribute; in fact, this winter we had a PR calling for a table to be set and for the problem we have with this sector to be solved in a structural, definitive way. The somewhat angry answer was: "We're already solving it. Good. What have they done? 'cause we're back here with the same theme on top of the table, right? Invited to live, that said Pau. Look, the ink is for squids, so you can escape. Politicians need to be more responsible. I note with concern the current trends. It's all about sharing blame. What's going on with the Nissan? – and this goes a bit for the common companies– ; I don't know, it seems that the blame is from Columbus. That sports subsidies are under repeated suspicion – some – of corruption? Case Figueras, case Platform Pro Selections, recently case Hospitalet... Yesterday, in a commission we ask that the Government... One thing is the judicial way– all respect, all presumption of innocence, would be missing more – but the Government, as government, in accordance with the Law of Public Administration and the General Law of Grants, has not only the right but the obligation to monitor what is being done with public money. We were voted against. Why are they afraid that we will raise carpets or open windows, counselor? I just didn't get it. I repeat that I note with concern the tendency towards irresponsibility that we have. Look, if you want to rebaptize Columbus Square as the Square of the Teleñecos and you want to remove the statue of the admiral and put Epi and Blas, there you are. But that doesn't solve the real problems that Catalans have. Invited to live, that said Pau. Although some of them seem to me and give me the feeling that they still have to define what kind of life they want to lead. I have it..., my group has it very clearly: we want to solve problems and we want to fight against inefficiency and corruption. With regard to the other two points which seek to speed up administration as a whole, we fully agree. You will have heard us repeat a thousand times, it is in our DNA, that we have to remove fat from the administration and we have to leave only the muscle. I think this what we are calling ‘new normality is an oxymoron, that is, it is not..., this has come to stay, and whatever it is to facilitate, speed up, optimize, make us more productive, for our part it will have all the support, and for a long time we should have done it. And he's moved forward before it was a bit of a short-term measure. No, let it be structural. Let's make things easy, let's make people do what they have to do, don't waste time filling out papers or waiting for answers from eternal web pages, or complications that don't bring anything, that have absolutely no added value, right? In short, although we have often reached out to you, and I do so again, with the topic of sports, you do not normally consult us or have the slightest courtesy to consult us with the decrees, even though we are the first group of the opposition. They bring us here the decrees for validation in plan «fright or death and, well, we will not oppose, out of responsibility, we will abstain, which will allow the decree, with the three points, to go forward. This is happening to us in other parliaments, apart from this, but I think it is time for responsibility and we will not oppose it, not by helping you or your Government, which really deserve very little confidence. But in the times ahead, we all have to be very responsible. If we save a life, if we save a job, I think it's worth it. This as the..., I am now thinking of Spielberg's film, Schindler's list, when the Jews who have managed to save end up giving him a ring with an inscription of the Talmud that says « who saves a life, saves the whole world. Let's be serious, let's leave the ink for the squid; politicians use toner. And black on white, we have to write solutions to real problems. And here's what we're doing is kicking the ball again. Next year – I hope I'm wrong – I think we'll see each other again. We live very complicated times, we have to be all responsible, I think we need many rescuers, and not just the aquatic environment, and for that, as always, I repeat that you can count on Citizens. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the PSC and Units Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Óscar Ordeig has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, councilwoman, well found all. First of all, to add to the congratulations to all the Aryans and Aryans on their day of the national feast, June 17, which celebrates the recovery of the General Council of Aran after its abolition. Therefore, congratulations to all of them and to all of the Catalans as well, obviously. Councillor, Members, Members, from the Socialist Group we value in some cases coinciding with what we have already done at the end of the debate on sports material. This time we will highlight the positive elements of the decree, of the previous decree, of the measures, of some of the measures that the Government has promoted, but also of the shortcomings of this new decree that we would have liked to have possessed on the table. Then we'll go on to detail them so that they're clear. The Decree Law 20/2020, of measures in the field of sports as a consequence of the Covid-19, forms part of a follow-up of decrees with measures of different scopes – one we saw the other day – with the aim of addressing the difficult effects generated by the pandemic. In the field of sport, the Decree Law 10/2020, first, and today, this. What we are discussing today consists of three chapters and a final arrangement, as has already been explained, and I will not extend to it, and sets out new measures in the field of sport directed to sports entities and professionals in the rescue and water rescue sector; as before each summer campaign, we are used to debating the subject. Regarding the rescue professionals and water rescue me, a new moratorium, a new moratorium for the application of the sanctioning regime established in Law 3/2008– 3/2008–, therefore, which does enough of this, and which also..., which we agree to do – the exceptionality of this moment surely justifies it more than ever – but we should also ask ourselves how it is that we have not done so many, know if we can ever plan, manage better, to try to have enough of the offer of workers and that we should not be doing more housing, or – add, what we had never said – modify, modify the part of the law that we see as not sufficiently applicable. I think we should all fold to replace ourselves with this reflection. Chapter II, which establishes measures for the functioning of the organs of the sports entities of Catalonia, also seems to us to be correct. Obviously, telematic meetings must be held to ensure the proper functioning of the entities, the clubs, the preparation of the season you see, through videoconferencing or other communication media, obviously complement the existing health measures. And Chapter III, as has already been said, with three articles, measures of modernization and simplification of sports entities, the procedures administered to make structural changes in cases of mergers, divisions or entity transformation. Correct; so far, correct. But from the parliamentary group we also want to put on the table some of the reflections that we have already done the week..., at the end of plenary and which briefly detail them. We believe and believe that it is necessary to open a space of debate, and I have already liked it, in the course of what I will say now and of the reflection that I have also done in the previous plenary, that perhaps the councillor has commented or supplemented a little more, in line with what has also been done since the General Secretary of the Esport, which we have also been working on, to say: "Home..., and today she has also commented, part, eh? , the sectoral table of the sport, in which it is spoken with the entities. But to us, in our view, it gives us the feeling that the sectoral table that has been discussed above all is that of decontainment or of seeing in which conditions we could go facilitating sports practice. On the other hand, it seems important and essential to us, but also our reflection was more in line with the work of the document that has also been approved by the General Secretary of the Sports of the Pla de..., I think they say of..., no, "restructuring no..., the National Pla de..., rebuilding the sport. Therefore, I think it would be good to see the aircraft in which we are moving, to see who are the negative consequences of Covid in the sport, to see what is the economic impact, that some say there has been a descent..., an impact of 2,500_million euros from the pandemic's iniquitous. We have an estimated gross domestic product (GDP) of 2.1_percent of catal GDP. So, see what the impact was. And, above all, as I said, not just the economics, or not the most important, but who has been the impact on sports practice, on the salvation of people, on the education of our children and on the salvation of the people in general. Therefore, jointly analyze the public administrations and private entities that are dedicated to sports practice, the associated fabric, entrepreneurs, joint ventures, public administrations, volunteering..., try to generate a table as much as possible and consensus so as to define who these support measures are. Some have been announced, but we believe they are insufficient. It's been a while since we've talked about it and we haven't done it. It may reverse some of the reduction in the sports pressure, the details that have been imposed since 2010 and that we have not yet managed to recover. And also, as we have already said, re-planning, rethinking many of the objects that we have marked to the national plan or to the appearances that we have made through the law..., of the processing of the proposed law of the new law of the sport. So, I understand that the decree that you present here today includes very correct necessary measures, we think that they are all insufficient and that they should be on the line of concrete action, huh? ..., and we would appreciate it if we could also bring in a new decree in the future where a concretion of the pact, of the national reconstruction plan presented by the Secretary General of the Esport, and concretely economic measures, which is what is not. And I'll talk more about it. Why do we say that? Because we believe that it would be good to push a line of subsidies for sports entities that have been lost, as has been done in many other sectors. You see that there is a part of the already planned subsidies that are speeding up, a part of the payments that are speeding up. Obviously, I think this is important, that payments are fast. But we understand that you base your entire support speech on grants that were already planned, based on a budget of EUR 60 million and cash, which has also gone out to the media, which is already the budget of the General Secretary of Sport and which is a budget, as we all know, which has gone down a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, with respect to previous years. Therefore, we believe that there would be a specific line of subsidies, apart from the activities that have already been done on an ordinary basis in the previous year. And we also believe that it is very important to make a good economic and social analysis of what the impact of Covid-19 was. Very important, we have already said, the economic impact, the impact on people, families and also, very important, on the continuity or not of many entities or sports enterprises. Adapt descalation and decontainment to physical and sports practice. We also think it's very important. Clear indications that guarantee safe practice, but that also facilitate the practice of activity. There are some practices that we have not so far set up and that are now, obviously, emerging in the form of new apps or new innovative practices to adapt to the circumstances. Therefore, it seems to us well, it has also been done, it has published some instructions, the department, but a lot of prudence and sanitary criteria, but we also try that the sport world is not left out, with all its diversity of practices, and that it can, too, recover a certain routine. I have already said this: we do not understand where the 60_million euros announced for the Secretary General of the Sport – a greeting if you are following us in this debate. And we would like to know from these announced moneys how many extraordinary are destined for Covid, how much more money will there be in the presupposition 2020 respect to which they have already approved and which specific parties are to be created, as has been done in other departments, as has been done in other sectors, in order to give support to the sport sector. So, in short, what we are asking for is a plan, a document – the document we have; we have already said that we believe it is a generic mass – and concrete measures to give support to the sector. And to see what is being done in other places in the State, what is being done in other places in Europe. We've been looking at it too. And, obviously, the first thing that's done is to analyze the concrete impact that it's having on how we're acting. There are also a lot of plans of shoc, some with lost subsidies, others with restructuring of the sector, others with fiscal incentives, which seem to us good; the document of the secretary backs a series of fiscal measures, but as important as it is also to see, from the generality itself, we do not push or pull any of them. Therefore, it is important to ensure social integration or sport adapted, among others, or also to adapt sports training to the new circumstances, relatively easy with online training; tax measures, as has already been mentioned, also. So, in summary, we will give support to Decree 20/2020, we will vote in favour, but we have already said that we believe that it is insufficient, because they come here with a very small or very concrete part of the great problem we have and of the measures that must be promoted. Therefore, we need to know what the Covid's affect is; we need a space of work and consent that is certainly wider, even more so, with the private enterprises of the sport world, which are also very much affected, and this obviously cannot be done alone, and, based on that, then define actions, assumptions, huh? And the future line for the propers, I think, two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.169.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. I want to remind the people killed by the Covid-19 again and send a warm and sincere hug to all those who have lost a loved one during these months because of the virus. For, Commissioner, we are again dealing with a decree law on urgent measures in the world of Catalan sport, and unfortunately the urgency is relative, as they arrive late and arrive badly and do not address the fundamental problems of the sector, nor are measures taken that have to do with a previous road map by the Government for sport. The decree deals with three issues. Firstly, the punitive moratorium applicable to certain administrative offences in respect of rescue and water rescue professionals. Secondly, enable sports entities to carry out their regular activities of meetings of sports boards, assemblies, at a distance, with videoconferencing and telematic methods. And a third heading authorizing the merger of sports entities of the same nature, entitled ‘Modernisation and simplification of sports entities'. The state of alarm caused by the Covid crisis will end in fifteen days, and today they bring these three measures. On the subject of rescue, we feared that this would come sooner or later, a subject that is being stranded on the beaches of the Government. The years go by, the months go by, and we still do not address a structural solution to the problem. It's not a new topic. About a year ago we dealt with the same moratorium in the same terms. I find myself obliged to remember, Counsellor, what we said at the time: it does not solve the fundamental problem and does not establish a change in the regulatory framework of the sector; we continue to patch without seeking a structural solution, taking into account only the business sector, because it has always been the one that has pressured to have moratoriums, but the means have not been put in place to improve the conditions of workers. We agree to repeat the moratorium, but credit is running out. It is clear that this year the circumstances and the dates on which we are forced to carry out this new cod. But, obviously, this..., our opinion must urgently address the regulation in an optimal way of the precarious sector and without a clear location in the current legislation. Let's remember again: creating a framework for debate and work with the actors involved in the sector – rescuers, government, local administrations, maritime rescue – and finding, now already, the formula to recognize rescue and rescue as it is, closer to civil protection than to sports activity, and looking for the end of job insecurity and the precariousness inherent in the sector. It is necessary to take into account workers, who have been treated as mere partners, and to seek a regulatory framework for the sector that guarantees decent conditions, regulated training according to their activity, considers beach rescuers as emergency professionals and that they are recognized as working and socially. We would not oppose this particular point, but it is the umpteenth time and we see no sign that they want to change anything in the rescue sector. The second part of the decree. He talks about the functioning of the collegiate bodies of sports entities as long as he has been alarmed, enabling meetings of boards, assemblies and other collegiate bodies at a distance and by means of telematic tools, respecting democratic minimums and setting limits to the convening of telematic assemblies, not being able to convene assemblies to modify or reform statutes and regulations, approve the vote of censure and establish extraordinary quotas, agree on transformation, merger or division or dissolve the entity. It also empowers the sports boards of the entities to carry out the day-to-day life of the entity and to make the relevant decisions, and, finally, within sixty days, must be ratified by an assembly. In this case, we find common sense measures in the midst of a very complicated situation for the entities, without being able to practice sports or social activity and, as we are dealing with at this time, without being able to hold ordinary meetings that guarantee democratic management of the entities, but, as I have said before, they are late and it is a pity, and very late, moreover. It seems to us that, although it seems contradictory, the Secretary-General of l'Esport has not been very quick in her decisions, as such measures should have already been adopted at the beginning of the crisis. And the last chapter deals with the modernization and simplification of sports entities, which basically seeks to facilitate fusion between sports entities, and it seems that it is only now that it is modernization. Anyway. It seems to us a somewhat pretentious title to address the conditions and requirements to justify sports entities of the same legal nature. Curiously, in parallel, the following news appeared: « Eurofitness is reinforced by the sum of its staff and those of UFEC – we still hope – « will create a sports marketplace for the Spanish-speaking market. It is curious that the same names always appear linked to the decisions made by the Generalitat in the field of sports. In this case, nothing to say about the content, but it draws attention to the fact that, in the midst of an alarm state, a global pandemic and the confined population, UFEC and UBAE have proposed a merger and ten days after the publication of the decree. We'll follow this operation very carefully. Counselor, we have been waiting three months for real solutions for the sport sector. We still do not know the government's road map, without clear lines, nor any intention of proposals so that the sector can have short- and medium-term hopes. And that again demonstrates the government's inoperability and inability to respond to the Covid crisis. Therefore, in agreement with the letter of the content and the decree, it comes late and goes wrong, and it is insufficient. That is why we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the word now has the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.171.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Look, from our point of view, this decree up late, it's contradictory and it's insufficient. What our country needs in the field of sport and what our assemblies and sports entities need, which is what our country needs in terms of basic and popular sport, format sport, is an active and urgent response from the Government to rescue the sport of the crisis, a crisis that is already spatial and that has now been sharpened for the Covid-19; economic support, the least of the '1_per_cent of the Generality's assumption, and public promotion and promotion of popular sport, format and basic in all its past and manners, and with all the necessary instruments, and with all the economic transfers that fail. And the government, with this decree, what it does is that it gives in part and assumes the crisis of the sector, normality, naturality; the government assumes the liquidation of many of its entities and possible mergers as an alternative, and the message that the government is giving to the sector of sports entities in crisis is that instead of helping you live, I help you die and facilitate the liquidations or mergers that may result from this situation. Or, on the contrary, to take advantage of the crisis of this environment, the economic crisis of this environment, so as to promote oligopolistic tendencies and control of sports activity in the hands of certain entities that would have power over a very high proportion of the sports activity of our country. And what we are asking of the Government is to promote a political action in favour of sports activity, which, saving our social and municipal fabric of the sector – this diverse, plural one, which permeates our entire society guaranteeing a basic sport, a popular sport, a formative sport for everyone – puts sport at the centre of our society and its salvation, as the pandemic has already taken care of, making it clear that in any case, one of the central aspects of community health and the health of the people before this type of situation is to be placed in the centre and to take care of sports activity for everyone. For what it does to the functioning of the entities, we agree, obviously, to facilitate its institutional life, but, as we say in all areas of our society, the pandemic can never be the excuse to limit democratic rights or participation, nor in sports associations. And it counts, it counts on a problem that all of you know: the cacichism that is sometimes given in many sports entities, or in some sports entities, that end up with the management of a certain collection, which sometimes does not respect the associative, democratic and participatory rules. Therefore, we must strike a balance between, of course, facilitating institutional functionalism, but also for democracy and participation in the entities themselves. And finally, for what it does to rescue me, the Covid-19 has only made a crisis and a problem that goes from the moon, as the previous Members and Deputies have already said. What the sector needs is the support, financing and public assumption of this activity so that it can be carried out in conditions and with guarantees; training, titling, regulation, technology, planning and resources, without who is providing the service to precarious, effectively have to assume the consequences of leaving public administrations. For all this, we consider that now, with this decree, the government does what it does is to pull the pilot forward and apply a new provisional piece. Therefore, with everything, and considering everything we have said, we will abstain in our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.172.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Ms. Esperanza García, continues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, good late. Look, no decree like this, I think, reflects this government's face and believes it. Why am I saying that? Why, unlike other decrees we have seen in this plenary during the last month and a half, this is very simple and has three chapters, right? And these three chapters allow you to see with great ease the government's reaction before changing situations – the crisis of the Covid – and situations that are chronic and have nothing to do with the Covid and do have to do with politics. The changing situation, which is the Covid, actually has some destructive effects on the entities of the sport, on the whole sector, in the end, of the sport, and it is obvious that we will give it full support, because we know the situation. And, besides, you've already made reference to and element of that decree that we agreed on a couple of weeks ago on aid to the sport, economic aid, with which this decree, which contains, therefore, better ordinary functioning of these entities and also predictions of ease, let's say, fusion between entities, I suppose also very much driven by a need to avoid extinction and loss of jobs... so obviously we are absolutely in agreement with this need and we will support it. Now, here we have the chronic situation, what we say is that it is the fruit of a government's cowardice and that it has to see, not with the crisis generated by the Covid, but by this cowardice, and it is the situation of the normal march of the rescuers. It is, if I do not recall badly, or that I have experienced, the third moratorium that is produced with the sanctioning regime of the rescue activity, under the pretext of urgency: "Ui, that the summer season begins, we do not arrive, the landings without rescue; we have to approve a moratorium because we do not yet have a _marc..., a _marc and sufficiently effective as to leave the landings unprotected and the users, also, no? And we've always supported it, because we understand, so yes, that effectively we can't put the users of Catalan platters at risk with the coastline we have and with the tourism we've had for many years, right? Now, they've gone from the traditional, from the summer season, to the nova, which, sadly, is the Covid. And that's not a waste. I believe that if we are politically coherent – and you have to be politically coherent, because you are the government – you have to stand in the way once and for all because the situation is absolutely chronic. The lack of rescuers to Catalan platters also has much to see, first, with a totally arbitrary fixation of when the season begins. Now we have this health crisis, which has not been so affected, but the reality is this: arbitrary fixation of the campaign's incisor. There's no need for help, why? Well for a lot of motius, right? For a band, a job and a few attractive working conditions, which is a reality, and then also, therefore, because there is no clear regulation. They say it, and we practically give it to all opposition groups. Moreover, the tasks of the rescuers are not the same either to swimming pools or to platges. And, on the other hand, the regulatory breakdown, or the minimum mark we have, assimilates them exactly the same when it's not like that, right? Then, too, there are no specific plans for Catalan platters. The assemblies each made a little of their own, and we don't notice this necessary collaboration of the Generality with the assemblies and the locals to facilitate this new reopening of the platters with certainty. And you will say to me: "Home, it is not so easy. Well, Balears and Canaries have done it, and they have a standard, and an established, and not so much need to resort to emergency procedures and decrees of suspensions and moratoriums of sanctioning regime. Then, too, man, throw a reflection on the table. Now that they have not yet begun, and despite the fact that there is an approved motion in this Parliament, of November 2019, that they require them to make a plan of security to Catalan platters, they reflect on the need that the rescue to platters may not have to regulate directly the department of sport, but Interior, because they practically do the same security tasks that, therefore, civil protection – it seems to me that a company has said it here – or even emerges; it works as a thing, practically, of security. But in any case, by political responsibility, we will abstain. But they do the favor of addressing at once for all those problems that are chronic, that will already come from us, surely, and from the worse, with the Covid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Ms. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.175.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, Counselor. I think there's going to be a big deal of consensus in this joint today; I think we'll all agree that, as we never do, we need measures in the world of sport. Simply, because it is no longer a sector that departs before the Covid from a very good situation; we all know that it is underfunded, that it lacks a lot of help. So Covid just made it all worse. Therefore, probably..., and we have already opened on the table a great debate, a debate that led us to a long reflection, with the law of the sport, with a debate with the sector, with many measures that we find ourselves on the table. And, for one thing, we find this decree that we are debating today attractive, as well as the second that is being carried out in sports measures, but it is true that it is also a short one. We need to be honest and say that we would probably want much more and more direct measures that help in an explicit way this world. First, to preserve this associative fabric. We understand – and I think we all share this – that to any people – I think that we will even tell the smallest of the Aran Valley as our company thought we would – we will always find it and there will be no lack of a sports entity, a sports entity that will co-ordinate, that will together, that will nurture that cohesion that we have missed from time to time. What was I supposed to do? What I need to do is not let this associate tissue die. And now we're very close; now there are alarm signals because the time is very and very complicated. And I think, many times, great evils, great realms. And forces us to reinvent ourselves, to restructure ourselves. There was an expression, wasn't there? He couldn't find the synonym in Catalan, but it's true. Perhaps the time has run out for sports to look for small patches that will hit those drops that detach the sector and indeed we plant ourselves among all – which I think is what we have begun to do with the law – as a foundation structure for this sport service so that we can solve another reality. And here we would agree with what different companies have come up with. It is true: seven moratoriums; seven moratoriums on a law that developed in 2008. Give us indications that something here is not doing well. Seven, and I think I live the fourth in the little parliamentary life I can share. A reflection is missing, a reflection of why. And it's structural, how they guide this formation. Formation is not the same for all segments. We can't limit ourselves to four thousand, the last few years we've already given this training, we've had it covered for two years, because it's not like that. The rescue pocket... I think we need to be honest and say, it's a pocket that someone doesn't put up with like a job all their life. Probably, it's a cycle of a certain concrete moment, which will last three, four, five years, beyond a municipal pool, that we would probably talk about another profile. Therefore, we must be very aware of which labour sector we are covering; therefore, of what training resources we must offer. It's a bag that goes back, that every five years you have to have it supplanted with new people because those five years back probably are no longer dedicated to this professional sector. Therefore, all this has to be done, after this reflection and this regulation of something that we want to improve. Just like the territoriality. I come from different countries and many times I have experienced the centrality of what the formation means. The formation cannot be centralized only in Barcelona, with the expenses that this can entail. Yes, yes, many places, but maybe we should rethink where we offer them. If the 95_per_cent of this training is done in Barcelona, we'll have a problem, because it's actually a place of work that probably isn't under a great magnitude. Therefore, it causes everyone to move, many times, for this formation to regions of Catalonia closer to the metropolitan area. Therefore, they are lines of reflection. With what? What training do we teach? From five centers? Is it proportionate to the tasks and work that these people will have to accomplish after? Do we have to re-adjust? There's a lot of questions here, and I think it's a debate that we need to have all the folds for now..., in a way I think I agree with all the explanations that have been made this late, because what we're close to is giving solutions to this sector. I remember: a law of 2008, seven moratorium in this respect, with very concrete demands from the sector. And let's think about it over there. These measures that we actually share... there is no measure of this decree that we really do not share; measures because an assembly is able to adapt to the telematic needs of this new situation that we have experienced, measures that allow according to which movement according to civil law so that an entity can merge. But we're missing, we're missing other tools, we're missing tools that really agile, that make it easy for the different presidents to do this job. We do, don't we? We're also collecting a demand from the sector. They are entities that sometimes have a president in front of them, but that entity sometimes has problems because it may not have the fiscal figure needed to apply for a credit. A step has been taken in this direction, but we need to, we need to because this liquidity needs to be immediate. Because when a club faces a season – let's imagine that we have to face the 18-19 – we have to wait to ask for the grant in the year 2019. Therefore, it is already beginning, September 18, with lack of presuppositional liquidity; liquidity, to be a serious club that develops very well its pocket, but has no liquidity. Therefore, this creates a lot of problems. The year 2019 would come out of this aid; the applications and, at the end of this year, the justifications, and, luckily, the 2020 collections. This is a great drama for most sports entities. Let's try to act on this point. Two years and two years later, how does our partner weave do to survive and face what you're going to face now? A great demand that there is also not to live from these annual grants, year by year. Maybe we can set up a multi-year, longer-term projects that give this security and clean up at the club. Probably, we can do things differently and I think we need to ask ourselves to start asking for them. Therefore, I believe that here, today, we will all force ourselves – and I believe that structural transformation will feel different sometimes – as if we want a new global structural look in the world of sport. We are talking about these days of ‘new normality; I would like to see this new normality in the world of sport grow from the difficulties and actually face all these small dysfunctions that sometimes make this great richness that is the sport association..., and that, above all, we never lose it; it is what makes us different from other communities, that the sport here grows from associationism, from the involvement of communities, of veins, of citizenship, with the support of governments and not the other way around. This is a big treasure, let's preserve it, because now we're on the edge of the limit that this system has problems, and we're missing it. Let us try, above all, among all, that this does not happen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.177.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, as the Councillor has already explained, just two weeks ago, we agreed that one of the sectors most affected by the effects of this pandemic was the sports sector. According to the report of the Sports Lab work group, Pompeu Fabra University, the economic impact of the Covid-19 in the field of catalá sport is in line with 2,500_million euros. The study also estimates that the loss of jobs will be more than 48,000, either temporarily or permanently; that is, 51_percent of the sector. According to data from this same morning, published for UFEC, set of two workers have suffered an ERTO ; the sector no longer contributes 921_million euros to the gross added value of this 2020. Covid has to cancel more than 1,200 sporting events, and apparently they will only be back to schedule a 20_per_cent. We are ahead of a crisis that has affected in a totally transversal way, it has been said here, from professional sport to basic sport, from profit to non-profit, and therefore it will be necessary to continue working to give out to this situation, where sport is at these times in a very dangerous line of flotation. And yes, Mr. Ordeig, the government will do the right thing, and the Secretary General of the Esport has already requested an impact report, which at these times is in tender. At the last parliamentary session, some of the groups expressed some discomfort because the economic measures they took considered them to be little concrete and insufficient, and they would like to go a little further than the pure beliefs. Today, with this decree, what is intended is to continue working in the line of strengthening sports entities, to equip them with new tools and resources, because they continue to be the pillar around which the progress of sports practice turns to our country. And it is also considered to take nine measures for professionals in the rescue and rescue sector. As explained above, the decree is structured into three chapters and a final arrangement. Chapter I, Article 1, regulates the new moratorium of the sanctioning regime established for Law 3/2008 on the exercise of the professions of sport. And I repeat: this is an exceptional measure, and I repeat it, exceptional. The uncertainty of the conditions as to how it will return to the new normality in beaches and pools this summer obliges to take a further year in relation to the hiring of rescuers in water activities for this season, which is why the suspension of the sanctioning regime is considered necessary. Chapter II sets out a number of measures relating to the functioning of sports entities' collegiate bodies, which has already been explained. And in Chapter III, which includes three articles, transitional character measures are taken to deal with the modernization and simplification of sports entities so that they can merge, split or transform ; the detail of this chapter has also been explained here. We are talking, therefore, about Article 1, the article of the rescuers, which was the star of this debate. I'll give them some data that will help us locate us. They are data from the Catalan School of the Febrer Sports of 2020: 7,443 people registered at the ROPEC as rescuers, all with competitions of swimming pools and platges– unfortunately, still 2,000 women and 5,443 men –; 570 people attending the official formation of the Initial Cycle of Salvation to all Catalonia; 398 attending the Certificate of Professionality in Salvation; 430 graduates and graduates in Sciences of Physical Activity who have training and accredited experience. To these, it is necessary to add to it the 31 people enrolling in the ROPEC and the 398 in homologation of the formation according to the Department of Education. We must remember that the Covid had to stop the formations and practices of our rescuers, but still, today there are 9,270 people who are willing to work. According to data from the Catalan Federation of Rescue and Rescue, it is necessary as well as a few nine hundred rescues to the plagiarism and five thousand to the swimming pools. Therefore, if we have a demand for more or less five thousand and an offer of more or less nine thousand – all that I agree with you, Mrs Caula, that there is a great rotation of all these professionals – it is difficult to think that the problem is only bad in the lack of professionals. We have already said this many times, difficulties in adapting regulations, insufficient regulation of the requirements of the activity to the plagiarism, the breaking of the market, the temporality, the harsh working conditions, the great precariousness of work are decisive elements in order to scare, among comets, future rescuers. We are clear that we are ahead of a structural and cross-cutting problem, and the only solution is a country action, a serious involvement of all agents in the sector: public administrations, private companies, Catalan federations and the departments of Labour, Education, Interior, Territories and Health. Some of you have asked here today what has happened so far. So, look, a work bag has been created through the SOC; you run massively to all people in the ROPEC to update data linked to the SOC; it has been made easier for all people who are doing the approval process and enrolling in the ROPEC by mediating the process of enabling the Sisena transit arrangement, applying the 50_per_cent fee discount. That way, they managed to regulate four hundred people. Among other things, they also held meetings with the Government Delegation to facilitate the dealings of people from non-EU countries. Let me announce here today that the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge held in November 2019 was resolved to establish a negotiating table with the objective of analysing the problems facing the sector, establishing a plan of work and carrying out an analysis of legislative, training or labour changes, if necessary. In this sense, we will shortly resume the constitution of the work table, which was certainly scheduled for this March, called "Mesa del Salvamento de los Platges del Litoral de Catalunya", led by the Director General of Policies of Muntanya and Litoral, Mr Albert Alins, and with the participation of all the actors and agents involved, from the competent public administrations to the representative associations and organizations. Finally, the Government's commitment continues to feel the commitment to give answers – answers – with the sole objective of recovering activity as soon as possible and that the negative consequences of the crisis are, in this sense, the smallest. For this reason, we will support this decree. And once my intervention in relation to the validation of this decree law on sports is over, I'd like to return'mal fair play' which I was talking about at first. To show the values of sport, teamwork, company, in short, to show fair play also consists of participating in the political game, of everyone with the same rules, starting from the same opportunities. For this reason, I want to give all my support to our teammate, Laura Borràs, for the political persecution that is patenting. We want a fair competition, with the same rules of play for everyone. We want an impartial arbiter and not the Supreme Court, which at this time seems unable to guarantee this fair play. So we want it to work and that's how it works in the world of sport, and so it should also work in democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the validation vote for this decree will, like the rest of the votes, at the end of today's day. Before proceeding with the order of the day, the faig came up with a request for the Government to change the order of the day. According to article 83.3 of the Rules, an alteration is proposed tomorrow morning, so that point 7, relating to the Ministry following the inquiry to the Government on the model of education, can be substantial in the place of point 12, relating to the Ministry following the inquiry to the Government on discrimination in the different areas. And point 12 in the place of point 7, is to say, that point 12 and point 7 are interspersed. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly, on the 7th on the 12th and the other way around. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. All right, so, if there's no problem... I understand you don't. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the relationship between the perception of the functioning of Spanish democracy according to the data of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion and the Amnesty International Report]] [[302-00208/12]] We follow the order of the day, with the new point, which is the Movement following the question to the Government on the relationship between the perception of the functioning of the Spanish democracy according to the data of the Centre d'Etudes d'Opinion and the Report of Amnesty International, a motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To defend her, Mrs. Gloria Freixa has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.179.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Amnesty International calls on the Spanish authorities to ensure that Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart remain free immediately. UN Arbitrary Detention Task Force calls for immediate release of prisoners. The World Organisation against Torture explicitly calls for the disproportionate sentences of Cuixart and Sánchez to be set aside. And yesterday's answer? The Constitutional rejects suspending the convictions of the process leaders. Today we present this motion on the state of democracy in Spain, linked to the Amnesty International report, and we want to talk about it in this chamber and with all of you. Because it is not just the CEO's report that highlights the poor perception that the same citizens of the Spanish State have, it is a follow-up of reports and opinions of prestigious international institutions of which Spain is a part. Now I imagine they have a son and that to give him all the self-esteem of the world they tell him that he is the best, the most read, the most intelligent. And it turns out that when you go up to school, this kid isn't as smart as they thought and he needs reinforcement, and specialists, psychologists, teachers, pedagogues, they tell them that this guy doesn't need reinforcement. What would you do with that person you think you are? To give him this strength, at the expense of the best professionals, and to make him stronger and stronger in life? Or lock him in a candy can and make him think he's the best and that he ended up standing alone? So we're still on time. We could turn from this path where we have fallen, in a drift without precedent, with singers persecuted for their songs, with social leaders engaged, with a government in prison and exile. Or we can take note of the recommendations of the European and international institutions and improve our democracy. But there's nothing going on here. And Spain continues to sharpen its drive for international justice. When the decks, these bodies are... they have all the credibility of the world, and when the decks, they run and they need them, and until when German, Belgian or Swiss courts don't give them the right the social networks explode against the other European countries where justice is independent of the executed power, where there is separation of powers. Don't they worry about the perception that the Spanish citizens of Spanish democracy have? What does the Eurobarometer say? 60 percent of Spanish citizens do not believe that Spain has separation of powers. And if they don't believe it in Spain, do they imagine Catalonia? What do we have to believe? Why should we believe in this justice, with our engaged civilian leaders, or when the Supreme Court has already given the President of Catalonia to tell him what day will he be disqualified? Is there such a hurry? Does it go ahead of the 202 other cases that there were to solve this year 2020? Or when they come into families on September 23rd and they're accused of terrorism? Without a guarantee? And when it turns out that this wasn't so, what groups of this room with Ciutadans are laughing and saying they have bombs at home and still waiting for forgiveness? Where's the presumption of innocence? Or when, as a friend of the pandemic we are living in, the Supreme Court makes an express statement to the prison staff to tell them that in no case would they let the Covid, political prisoners pass him home, locked up at home? Why? Why don't we want to guarantee the rights of these prisoners? Why is this obsession with this particular group of prisoners? No, we don't believe in the separation of powers, and neither do we believe in Europe. The Greek, the Anti-Corruption Group of the Council of Europe, last week again warned Spain and demanded that it cease the politicization of justice. The report made it clear: "Only with a legislative reform could the current system be brought to an end, and in 2018 they had the opportunity, they were able to make the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, and they did not include it. And instead, instead of rethinking it, the General Council of the Judiciary makes a report where it is dedicated to saying all those good things that they do and does not take any – or any – responsibility for all that they have not done. You want to make the Spanish citizen believe that every four years there is already a strong and stable democracy, but they lack and ignore all the reports of prestigious entities that tell them that this is not the way. Maybe we just have to ask them to listen to the Spanish citizens, and that's why I'm especially directed to the two ruling parties: really, they're also interested in the opinion of the citizens? That the perception of the Spaniards about the lack of separation of powers follows, according to the Eurobarometer..., deixi Espanya in the fourth country per suba, at the cua, or that the World Economic Forum deixi Espanya classified by suba of Saudi Arabia and the Xina, is not people ill. Say it. But let's say it together, all of us. Because this government urges the Spanish government to complete with all the resolutions, dictates and international resolutions that would make Spain the path of democracy. And see the picture, as my companion Anna Tarrés, dear Laura Borràs, said, they all know that you will not have a fair trial, but look at another gang, without thinking that the propers can be them. Come on, partner, come on, come on, we're with you. And to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.180.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.181.0	...freed political prisoners and exiles.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.182.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.183.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.184.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.185.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, today the Junts Group for Catalonia brings us a young man who really thinks it would be very easy to beat her with what Mr. Torra told us today, who says we're tired, that we're tired, that our argumentary, that our way of defending our ideas is tired. It seems that Mr. Torra is not used to hearing the truths of the boat and is angry when someone tells him the truths. And it turns out he's tired, he's tired of reality. In any case, I think there are some aspects that we should remember. The company of Junts for Catalonia has come to do a whole series, a whole set of interpretations or speculations about what some international entities say... Certainly, few institutions, Mrs Freixa, on the contrary, the international institutions, the European Union..., forgive me, the European Commission, its Vice-President, Mr Frans Timmermans, strictly says: "Spain is a democratic state of unquestionable right with separation of powers in which no one is persecuted for his political ideas. I can look for it in the newsroom, it's as easy as that, the data have this virtue... now you're doing the search and you'll see what the European Commission says about Spain. What other international bodies say, the European Court of Human Rights to which you constantly appeal as if in the end, as a former machine god, you had to end up giving reason to separatist theses. The European Court of Human Rights, told them..., specifically on the decision of the Constitutional Court to suspend the plenary in which you wanted to declare the DUI, said that it was an imperative social need, in a democratic society, to annul the plenary that you wanted to bring to term. Therefore, the international institutions, the authentic international institutions, say that Spain is a democratic state of first order, beyond what The Economist says, beyond what Freedom House says and all the organizations that have a certain relevance. That's the facts. You come here with speculations and interpretations that are very legitimate, you can do them, but if you don't, you don't present them as you did. In fact, the working group of which you are constantly talking about the UN, we have recently learned from the press..., that it is true that you are refusing to give a great deal of information about respect, but we have learned from the press that the Government of the Generality has paid to the office from which this working group of the UN, like at least 150,000 euros, if not more, because the data cannot hold them at all. Anyway, Mr. Torra is not here, logically, but I wouldn't want to tire Mr. Torra out either. That's true, but I do say one thing to you, paraphrasing Adlai Stevenson in what he told the U.S. Republican Party about..., from his position as a Democratic Party: the day you gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra stop lying systematically about Spain, we will stop singing the truths of the boater to you, but until then, don't try to convince us that we can't tell you the truth. We have to tell them the truth precisely for democracy, for coexistence, and ultimately for a higher moral value, which is peaceful coexistence. Therefore, I believe it is essential that you continue to hear the truths that Citizens have to tell you here, Mr Torra will get tired, but we will continue to do so, because I believe it is very important. And one last truth that I would like to tell you already, going further to the concrete text of your motion, because you have succeeded in this motion truly sublimating demagogy. I say this for the following, you literally say, I read..., I quote textually: "that the Spanish Government has the obligation to institute the State Prosecutor's Office and the State Advocate because they do all the necessary actions before the courts because it is a compliment to the requirements of the international bodies of which Spain is a party. You are demanding the Government of Spain to tell the prosecution what to do. And, two paragraphs further down... that's to say, with a lack of consistency that even cares about the lack of..., let's say, as it is not working well the lies or the fallacies, because they say, two lines further down, that it is essential that Spain takes note of what you say, recommend the Greek report. Mirin, whatever it is... precisely to guarantee the independence of the prosecution. But what are we staying at? Do they want independence from the prosecutor's office or do they want the Government of Spain to tell the prosecutor's office what to do? Let's follow a little consistent and a little consistent, if not with what we give in four lines, which is not so complicated. And I think this is interesting, it's important that I have it present. I will not insist more on the good quality of the good image that Spain has in the world, because I think this is evidence that you try to deny, but if more I don't think it's important that these data are present. I insist that before, as a political party, we have gone to the Congress of Deputies to call for a reform of the judicial system in which the appointment of the Attorney General of the State has a majority of two thirds of the Parliament, which is on the Government's proposal, but which is endorsed by Parliament. We defend the reform of institutions that do not work well in Spain, now that they do not come to tell us that Spain is not a democracy. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word to defend his views.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.187.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, in the first place, I would like to thank the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Freixa, who was the proposer of this motion, who managed to deal with us some points that we presented and which, in short, came to complement the text that from our point of view, in a very accurate, precise and realistic way, came to propose in this plenary. Well, I've listened to Mr. Martin Blanco and, out of respect he deserves like any other MP, I would say that we, logically, diverge. We all have our point of view, our way of thinking, our ideology; we all belong to different political formations and we also defend different things, but precisely in defined areas such as those of human rights, among all folds – and I do not speak at the national level, I am speaking at the international level – we have a series of elements, structures, entities, associations and institutions that are, precisely, for human rights and in which all those who consider ourselves to be democrats can sum up without taking into account, I insist, which is our ideology, our way of seeing the world. And I think that among all of us we could conclude that there are entities as Amnesty International can be; as can be the working group of the United Nations Organization; as can be in the area of judicial independence, therefore, this anti-corruption group of states, in which I believe that before we live this conflict – for whom I want to call it conflict – is worth all the respect. And I am sure that we could go to parliamentary groups for parliamentary groups and we would find Members who have contributed, precisely with adequate resources, to supporting the work of these institutions, because they believe that they are doing a work that is fair and independent. I'm not convinced, and we could look at all the parliamentary groups. From this point of view, we all deserve to believe any pronouncement that these entities and institutions can make, and from the same way that you tell us that the Pleth of the 10th had to be suspended, because that was considered by the Court of Justice of the European Union, so we accept it, because if this was the interpretation we will have to accept, and we did another pleth after the 10th, we did another one on the 27th, and in this case there was no judicial pronouncement that overturns the decision of this Parliament to form and adopt a series of decisions. For us, that the working group on corruption, in this case the Council of Europe, say that Spain has democratic deficits that make its justice not independent is something to be noted. That Amnesty International considers that Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart should be released, because the penalty imposed on him is excessive and does not correspond to the fact that he lived in Catalonia in this process, is transcendent. That the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group..., from which the evening has come to say that they are corrupt and that the Government of Catalonia has bribed them because they make this kind of pronouncement..., we have not seen that no one interferes in the utterance of this working group respects any other international conflict. And, for us, if all these entities and institutions deserve all the credit of the world, I still deserve more credit from the Court of Justice of the European Union. And in this sense we have asked for a specific aspect, a theme in this area, which I probably had to see with Oriol Junqueras, because it is who promoted that action, but ultimately it has to see with all those people who competed in an electoral process with complete freedom and were unable to take possession of their powers precisely for the performance of Spanish jurisdictional bodies. And in this sense there is an unequivocal pronouncement, which is that of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which said that, in this case, the immunity of MEPs is achieved by proclaiming the results and not by a formal process in a national legislative chamber, in this case the Congress of Deputies. And therefore, by virtue of that pronouncement, Mr Oriol Junqueras should not have been tried by the Supreme Court. And, by virtue of that pronouncement, Mr Oriol Junqueras would have to be free until, if that were the case, the supplicator is produced to what, like other Catalan MEPs who competed for our jurisdiction, he is fine. Therefore, we ask – not to you, in short, to everyone – to respect for the functions not only of entities, associations or non-governmental organizations, but also for the supreme organs in the field of the European Union. Because, yes, the Spanish Government must give instructions to all its independent officials, just as the Spanish judiciary itself must take the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to complete its mandate. And his mandate was to release Mr. Oriol Junqueras, to respect his immunity, and not to say to take note of it for the next time. This is not to complete the judicial resolutions and if they are so concerned because they are full, they should be the first to endorse it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.189.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, I want to begin my intervention with the three people, the three Members who preceded me in the use of the word, all of their interventions, because, despite the deep discrepancies around what happened to Catalonia in the last few years, and the consequences of what happened late in 2017_has been in the midst of the country's social and political life, despite this, I believe that the whole debate has taken place in terms that have surprised me for good, and I believe that it is also worth highlighting. I think it can be the beginning of the possibility to hear, or at least to hear the reasons and positions of others, to have a tone that allows us a minimum of interlocution. That said, we must say that, in the first place, the motion presented to us by Junts for Catalonia has, from a formal point of view, a difficult problem which, in itself, could already justify the negative vote that I am announcing. And it is that of everything that he announces first and then in the self-resolutive part that he asks that the Government of the Generality urge the Government of Spain that you do, of all five points in which the Government of the Generality that urges the Government of Spain there is not one that is really in the hands of the executed power. The first point refers – and it is related to the Greek report – to questions that should have a legislative approach, or perhaps even constitutional reform, and the other four have to deal directly with the judiciary. And I disagree that everything is resolved only with the appeal made in the first part of the motion to the paper that the Government can hold for what it does to the State Advocate or the Public Prosecutor's Office... That, of course, it is clear that whatever it has, let's say, a certain hierarchy from the point of view of its constitutional position, it acts independently and, moreover, each of the prosecutors, each of the prosecutors, also acts independently in its functions. So this could be a first motiu. A second reason would be that everything that is described in the first part of the motion, that part that is encapsulated with the "recognizes and makes a series of observations, we would say that it would be useful to introduce nuances; nuances that do not fit in with which we are left to intervene, but it seems to us that there are excessively taxive statements regarding what they say or do not say the pronouncements of these international bodies – in some cases international NGOs, such as the World Organisation against Torture, or Amnesty International –. And I'm saying, we don't have time, but I'm trying to put some of it down so that we can figure out what I'm talking about. Regarding the Greek report, reading the Greek report. The media reading that has been done, sometimes not only from positions appropriate to independence but in general, is the one that so much likes as a titular one, in castle: « Varapalo to the Spanish judiciary or the Spanish institutions. When one reads with detention as much this report of the Greek as the previous ones, it is true that the Greek insists on the need for less intervention, that is, that he does not intervene the legislative chambers in the appointment of the members of the judiciary, but it is also true that that same report and other previous ones recognize advances that have occurred with various reforms, with successive reforms, for what it does to the sphere of the judiciary. Even so, it would have to be possible to address, both with a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and possibly with a reform of Article 122 of the Constitution, a change of model, because it is true that at the moment they constitute the Spanish Constitution – it is known for everyone – was strongly inspired by the Law of Bonn, also in elements of the Italian Constitution, of the Portuguese Constitution. And the General Council of the Judiciary found a strong influence of the Italian model, which already raised some doubts at that time. Well, that's just one of the shades. And we could still get a lot more into the issue of the General Council of the Judiciary, but it's just one of the many subtle things that could be put into these very dictating statements. To sum up, neither the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union to resolve a prejudicial question raised by the Supreme Court is an interference in national sovereignty with the defence of certain sectors of the Spanish nationalist right, nor is it – as it is sometimes called – a varapalo. It is the necessary consequence of what exists – integrated into our order – that possibility of raising preliminary questions, in which the decisions taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union can depart from what the Supreme Court initially made, and it remains in the hands of the Supreme Court to decide how it integrates, as it applies to the question referred by the TS. And he did, of course, straying from what the State Advocate said, in this case, which I think is going to discredit some of the narrowest claims he is making about the separation of powers in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.191.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. In this motion, you are basically presenting us with a motion concerning the situation of prisoners and political prisoners in Catalonia and, therefore, under this umbrella, under this focus, the motion that you present will receive our support and we will vote in full favour, because we are fully compromised by the unjust situation that people who are being taken and exiled for political reasons are living in this country. That said, we do have some discrepancies with the relationship they make with the question, with the language they use and also with the little curosity of some of the elements that you yourself criticize, such as the separation of powers in the Spanish State. Indeed, we believe that we need a thorough review of the judiciary in the Spanish State, and with this we are fully in agreement, but clearly, at the same time as you tell us, we are being criticized for the lack of separation of powers in the State, we are being told in a motion of the Parliament of Catalonia that the Government of the Generality urges the Government of the State to complete some resolutions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which must complement them by the Supreme Court. Clearly, the state government can't get the Supreme Court to release political prisoners. That's not what I'm saying. So they're asking the state government to do some things that correspond to the judiciary. Therefore, they are clearly sweeping the different powers. And what I want you to do with it is to use a report in which you come to tell us, first of all, that Spain is irreformable, that it is a pre-democratic state and articulate it about the different powers of the State as a homogeneous thing, as a single thing. It is true that during the application of Article 155 and in the previous period that we have lived in this Parliament, therefore, effectively the different powers of the State were aligned in the same direction of repression against the independence movement and this we have valued in the 155 Commission. But it's also true that things have happened, that the state government is already another government. Clearly, when you talk to us about the powers of the State, I don't know if the Vice President of the Spanish Government is or is not a power of the State. I understand that a vice president is a power of the state, right? Because, of course, he is a vice president who has manifested himself on repeated occasions for the freedom of Catalan prisoners and political prisoners. So when you put it all in the same bag, man, we think it doesn't exactly fit the reality. And, on the other hand, we do believe that it would be good to open the eyes at the moment we are looking forward, to pass the page, obviously without stopping asking, first of all, the freedom of prisoners and political pressures, in this we are fully in agreement, Mr Orobtig, and we have repeated it on repeated occasions, but it is true that we are at a time when we have a table of dialogue that can allow us to move forward and believe that here we must put all our efforts and not be anchored in a report of a reality that is no longer what we have a few months or years ago. In any case, you also speak to us in this motion of the quality of democracy and I also want to remind you that, if you look at the CEO's indicator of the quality of democracy in Catalonia and Spain, what you will see is that the moment when it actually starts to give the democratic quality perception to our home basically is the year 2008, it is with the financial economic crisis of 2008; it is all that led to a distance between citizenship and political powers, which gave place among other things to 15-M and to many of the social and political transformations that we have seen at that time. Therefore, it is at that moment when it begins to give the quality of democracy to the conjunction of the State, effectively after much more, and we already share this, but we are still aware of where we are coming from. And I'm also saying this because it's a good thing that we all always stand up for the same causes when it comes to human rights, because, speaking of what I was talking about, I want to remember, therefore, that we knew Jordi Arasa's sentence last week, but that 96_percent of the injuries in the displacement of the Plaza Catalunya in 15-M continue without a sentence and, therefore, the Catalan police forces acted with absolute impunity and continue with this same impunity. Or, for example, we've also seen how the Generalitat had asked more than three years of prison for an independent activist to hit the gates of the city with a hammer now a couple of years ago. So, of course, sometimes, according to what positions, so, they generate a lot of doubts, and we believe that what we have always defended and that is why we will vote in favour of this young man is that we must be on the side of human rights always, in all the causes, and therefore calling for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Mr Carles Riera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.193.0	Thank you, President. Now we are before a young man who rightly claims that the institutions of the State apply the recommendations and instructions emanating from international institutions and bodies for what he does to the court and the judgment of the U of October, whatever would seem to be evidence in any democratic march of the world, the release of political prisoners and prisoners, the annulment of the court and the judgment, and the absence of the crime of secession. That is why, naturally, we will vote in favour of this motion. But it is not worrying, ladies and gentlemen, that the most obvious is that the Spanish State will not, that Spanish institutions will not, that they will not. They will not do this act of democracy or justice. Yesterday we wanted to have a new example clearly demonstrated, with the decision taken by the Spanish Constitutional Court. And the most progressive government of history, of the PSOE and Podemos, does not move a saying. It is not positioned as such government in favor of complimenting these measures. Cap, no instruction to the State Advocate; no instruction to the State Advocate. We think that the Spanish government, before progressive, is above all the government of the regime, the government of the State, and therefore maintained repression and excluded self-determination from the resolution of the conflict, the only aspect that could be resolved from the conflict. But we also want to add, before we finish, that we also observe, with concern and sadness, that neither Together for Catalonia, nor Esquerra, nor the Government of the Generality have today, on their political agenda, no firm action to exercise sovereignty or self-determination. Dialogs about things to go instead. And repression continues, and so do the hands of the Squad Mosses. With one hand cry and cry in the State and with the other, obey and acaten. Today, surely, Jordi Pujol would be happy to see how the cave fish returns to Catalan politics. His tsunami today is engulfed in the marshy waters of our autonomous natural pacts. And you, like me, and we, know perfectly well that the only solution – the only one – to put an end to repression is the break with the Spanish State and self-determination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.194.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Alejandro Fernández. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.195.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Freixa for this reference and petition she made to analyze the psych reports, teachers and children's educators of our children. I say this because I never dared to say it, but many times I thought that it was you who should go to the teachers and to the children's educators. And among other things, because they have, when it comes to these issues, this childish reaction: "Pope, Papa, you didn't buy me the lollipop, and things don't work that way. The real world is radically different from what you think. The reality with which the child has to contrast what is happening to him, because he thus has an overdose of reality and he runs out of rebequeria, is that Spain carries more than a decade in the restricted list of world nations that are, for The Economist, as full democracies. The reality is that Spain, in the last forty years, has been one of the world's most important international peaks, precisely to give credence to what so different characters like Shimon Peres or Sami Naïr say: "Spain, a space of peace, democracy and freedom. That's the reality. And you come here and talk about certain NGOs – I won't go in there – of certain working groups – I won't go in there – but no European and world institution in its binding resolutions has said absolutely nothing about Spain, nor has it done any kind of toilet. You are talking about the report of the Council of Europe of the judicial system, which actually makes some recommendations to Spain, which, of course, have nothing to do with what you say you say. But as far as the Council of Europe is concerned, I would recommend that you read a report, that it is binding and that it makes recommendations that come from the Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe, that you say..., and it makes a very serious warning of the torture practices of the Mosso d'Esquadra in Catalonia. This is a binding report. Therefore, it is better to leave novels and to take over the binding reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the turn, again, Mrs. Gloria Freixa's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.197.0	Thank you, President. Well, I agree with Congressman Pedret that, perhaps for the first time at a time, you see a debate about very different positions in this chamber, but that it has a tone that we can listen to, which, in fact, is what is needed: that we listen and that we talk. I always know a little hard when the Socialist Party..., especially the Socialist Party, because in this case with Ciutadans, because of the way they always talk to us and how they address the prisoners, I can't share anything, but I do know very hard, sometimes, when you come here to the Faristol and take care of all these working groups, for example of the UN. Yeah, he did his company, and he's doing all his work, the day they took care of each other and found out about the United Nations working group, because they said that a working group wasn't very important. But I do think that, contrary to what the Member of the People's Party says, who always has a tendency to joke about very serious things, because we have people with broken lives so that we don't get the crimes that they're supposed to have, so the Council of Europe is an institution to be listened to, because, if not, Spain could come out and Spain in part. And Spain, once a year, has failed to accomplish all that is asked of it since the Council of Europe. And they can tell the headline they want, but the depoliticization of justice is one thing asked for once and another. And Congressman Pedret is right, who has moved forward, because it is true that of the eleven recommendations do not include seven – now, four – but there is still a lot to do. Much remains to be done and I believe that you and, above all, Catalonia in Comú Pode, are also aware of the effects of not being inclined as a coalition government for so many sectors of this Spain that you do not want to share this project with yourself. And they're seeing how it gets judicially attacked for all the gangs, especially you, with controversial police reports and, therefore, we expect to find them here because I think it's a waste. And more. Just tell the Member of the European Union that I am talking to him about the president of the Eurochamber, who asks that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union be supplemented, that Oriol Junqueras is freed and that he is freed from the absurd Euroorders of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into planning to manage the risks arising from the summer campaign]] [[302-00210/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into planning to manage the risks arising from the summer campaign, a motion presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To defend it has the word Mr Jean Castel. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.199.0	Thank you, President. Well, today I'll be allowed to make a statement about this young man. First of all, thank all those parliamentary groups who are today doing a responsibility exercise that will enable most of the points of this motion – and allow me to say that it would have to be a regular exercise in the political sphere. And this young man and what's going to happen today could set a precedent. I understand that the ideologies of the past are what should be coherence, common sense and responsibility, but – as I said – today we are ahead of an exercise of responsibility, even though there is a point 7 of this motion, which speaks of the EU, that I can understand that historically because it says "ideolological schemes", some groups will vote a not very tight one and we will have some other votes among emerging complexes also by other groups. We will be able to finish by the final vote. That said, thanks to the two parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to us – in this case the Republic Group and that of Juntes for Cat – which we have been able to accept and reach agreements to make the objective viable and to prioritize the need for these forest brigades with action to provide solutions to the real state of the forest, to counter a long-standing situation for the Covid-19, for which he is not responsible – as I said in that question – no one. Keeping and fitting, as it can't be in any other way, you've got strategic points, statures and that comprehensive maintenance we've got to have of the woods; looking at the hot spots, obviously. We have maps that point to hot spots and these brigades can carry out actions of responsibility to ensure security, security for the citizen and, also, as it cannot be otherwise, of our environment. In the same way, accesses, paths and small tracks that when there is an upsurge in the forest are those that are used for vehicles, for fire trucks and for ADFs, which are placed in front of the driver, because they are the great forest connoisseurs. Maintaining this accessibility also means ensuring an adequate performance of our firefighters' body in its work before the start. Look, as I said, audit... we're talking about those areas that are turning into security and prevention measures before a fire such as those that are not such, but they're keeping them under high and medium voltage lines, third-party responsibility such as electrics, but with the supervision of this institution, which is to add responsibility to the control of the state and how it is found. In the same way, the definitive solutions that seem to begin to emerge when we talk about ACA. I'll make them several references. Mirin, Plaça Catalunya de Girona: structural damage in a plaça that carries years... In these years the heavy vehicles have been limited, and the ACA has full competence and told us that day at the Junta de Girona: "We are underminim. To the east, another example: Sant Antoni de Calonge. Much of the canalization is missing as the flooded part. ACA, too: "I don't have resources. And so many more that we could be listing today from this Faristol. See that for the first time you have one of the points... you have the necessary material resources, as it can't be in any other way. The institution, to this agency, must give them the tools, and they are resources to carry out the maintenance of their work, but also the maintenance of everything that has to be arranged, that we see in the last assumption as in place to expand, we retaliate and, somehow, shielding the execution of a lot of responsibility that this agency has. We must be in the corner of this agency and ensure what we have to do from the institution, that it is to ensure that the objectives that claim the department in the plan of prevention and extinguishment of fires, but also the objectives that, in commission, we defend the parliamentary groups for a better day-to-day of our forest, which continue and become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and to defend the papers, has the word Mrs Montserrat Fornells. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.201.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. After the crisis of the Covid, I return to intervene from the Faristol and would like to take advantage first, in the first place, to send all the scalp and all the support to the families and friends of the people who have lost an esteemed person; to desire a rapid recovery and a lot of strength to all those people who are still struggling, and an immense gratitude to all those who are working from the first line to address this situation. Before initiating my intervention in this case, on behalf of the Group of the Republic and as a spokesman for the Committee on the Interior, I would like to condemn the racist aggression that has been denounced in the last few hours by some agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, show our solidarity with the victim and ask for firmness and strength in the measures and actions that can be applied in this case in order to avoid future ones. We are ahead of a Ciutadans motion on planning to manage the risks of forest fires in the summer campaign, a motion that we are debating in this Chamber a week after Councillor Jordan and Councillor Buch appeared to the Commission of the Interior to explain what actions, what management measures, prevention and fire-extinguishing took place at the end of the 2019 forest campaign, and also for the managements they have made and planned for the January campaign. Therefore, Mr. Castel, you know and know that most of the proposals made by this young man have been made many years ago by the two departments, and that the councillors thus put it out to the committee last week. From our group we have presented different points in different points, of which we thank the Member of Parliament for having accepted three of the points and that the rest of them, although we do not accept them - we would also vote in favour because, as I said, basically, there are fears, questions that have already been made between the two departments. We have talked about it, we have discussed it on different occasions in this Parliament, in the Commission or in the House, that forest fires will be extinguished in the winter. That is why the management and fire prevention tasks are very important, since Catalonia has about 60 per cent of the territory that is forested, about 2 million hectares. One of the great policies of prevention are those that bet for the struggle against rural depopulation and to guarantee the generational replete of the agrarian world. Because we can't afford the loss of conreu camps, pasture camps, pages and pages, ramaders and ramaders, since these are the first ones interested in preventing forest fires in their territories and are the most interested in keeping the different ecosystems of the territory in good condition and well clean. Because a rural world without opportunities increases the risk of forest fires. Moreover, all the tasks of the Gepif and the EPAF are also very important, as are all the actions of the Rural Agents' Centre or the ADFs and the same joints in those tasks of forest management, infrastructure maintenance – such as roads and forest tracks or water points – as well as the inspection of electrical lines, controlled creams and so many other actions that take place beyond the year due to the prevention of future forest fires. One of the points of agreement of this young man calls for the cleanness of islands and banks on the part of the ACA; he should also be part of the CHE, because he has skills in a part of the territory. It's very important that it's coming to term, that it's still doing this clean house with strength, not just to prevent forest fires, but also to minimize the risks in good and in people when there are storms and rivers. Another point refers to designing and spreading information and communication campaigns, campaigns that are going on every year as much from the Bombers Cos as from the Rural Agents Cos; both at the schools, with the Education program, as with the harvest campaign, which, thanks to this campaign, has led to a reduction of about 80_percent of the fires, from 2012 to 2019, that are produced in the agricultural tasks; or the one that began in the guinea, in the campaign, to raise awareness of the people of the perilousness of the burillary launch. It is necessary to continue to work and to do a lot of teaching in this sense, because there is still, unfortunately today, a 62_percent of fires that are provoked. Finally, let us hope that there will be a good forest campaign and that there will be the least possible fires. And I would like to thank the task of all the professionals and volunteers who work in the prevention and extinction of fires, of the great task that they are in the end and because they are a model of success and exemplary within Europe, and that they continue to feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Ferran Roquer. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.203.0	Thank you very much, President, and I'm delighted to greet you and all the care I've recognized today, that I've gone backwards, that I've gone backwards today... [[The timer laughs.]] You see, Mr. Castle, without what it's like to be a precedent, huh? : He has presented us with a motion in which we are almost in full agreement. Therefore, we agree that we have the same policy of fire prevention. It was a policy, it was a series of measures that Councillor Buch and Councillor Jordà presented to the Commission for the presentation of the 2020 forestry campaign last week. All these policies are framed in Project Bombers 2025. We have not spoken more than once in this Chamber, but this Panel Bombers 2025 marked the guidelines of the campaigns, marked the guidelines of the activities of the Department in the matter of people – which is difficult, they have had to contract people –, of benefits – they have had to buy benefits – and of policies and ways to face fires. Because the fires have changed, the climatology and, as a consequence, the fires have changed, and so must the way to do it-front. Give us the counselor and counselor, last week, that the rain and humidity of these first days, of this spring, of these first months of 2020, make there a great basement. A basement that, together with a hot summer, can make a difficult – difficult – cocktail for the burning of fires. The campaign... you were talking to us about the campaign of 2020, and this campaign carried inherently many things that Mr. Castel demanded. For example, the new bases of the EPAF, of the Active Forest Prevention Teams, which perform preventive actions and allow them to act reactively faster. So these forest preparation brigades already exist, they're here and they're carrying working all year. Not only the EPAF: the Rural Agents, the ADFs, the joints – which, together with the DARP, project infrastructures to avoid fires–, the controlled creams – the deputy of the Republican Group spoke about –, the maintenance of the lows, the maintenance of the roads, the work with the agents of the territory... All these jobs that are done in winter and that help to extinguish the fires of the summer. He spoke of the ACA– he spoke of the ACA–; he said: "Let it carry out the execution and management of the forest of the riverbank, linked by the fulfilment of its functions and competences. And I have reached the next point, with the point that speaks to us about the UME, about our armed forces. It's worth saying that of ours, I don't feel them; ours, if it's not for the tributes they serve to keep them..., but I don't feel them ours. What does the ACA do? During 2019, 3 million in maintenance; during 2020-21, 3 million in maintenance; emergencies of the temporary Dana, 7 million for emergencies; 25 million for the emergencies of Gloria. Do you know when you spent the CHE on maintaining – the Jewish Hydrographic Confederation – in maintaining the shared basin? Zero. Two million to the Dana and zero to the Gloria. Instead of asking the U.S.A. to help us break down forests, which, moreover, is not one of the functions that the U.S.A. has, we could ask the U.S.A. to comply with its obligations with the law. You ask us to make a campaign of awareness to the people; it is indispensable. Sixty-two percent of the fires come from anthropic causes. Awareness campaigns are indispensable. Well, the generality will spend 33_million euros in this campaign, which will make us 551 people, open up all the volunteer fire parks, have thirty-six midairs and there's a new replenishment procedure, there's a new replenishment procedure, etc. In short, we will vote affirmatively on all points of his motion, except for the point that speaks of the army and speaks of the UEM, that in order to break down the woods we have already done ourselves all alone – this and many other things – and certainly better than not wrongly accompanied. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.205.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Also very happy to see him all and all, presents. Well, it's been said, I'll be relatively short, we're in front of a young lady who I think is an interesting young woman, who has presented Citizens, with a series of points... well, that are points that have been touched several times in this Parliament, have been touched several times in committees, but that's not why we don't think they're less needed. I say in general, in general, they're set around fire prevention, they're things that, in fact, have already been... that should be done long ago: creating forest brigades... Certainly, I think that the text has also improved enough with some of the papers; therefore, I would also like to congratulate the proposer on accepting these papers from other groups to make this young man, so a little between everyone and everyone. I think it's a good example in security issues and above all in topics like a summer campaign, and show that we can agree on concrete measures like this. But more than getting into the issue of each point, I'd like to get a little into the causes, why they're presenting these points to us and why they're presenting us with this type of young man; why they're going to approve, why they're proposing, why they're picking up, why, after all, some groups that support the government end up supporting this type of young man. And, counselor, I have to tell you... look, I'm not going to tell you today because we're talking about Bombers, I'm not going to ask you for that bigger investigation of the history of Mossos, I'm not going to ask you why we're talking about Bombers. But let me tell you, Counselor, that the image that was given yesterday or before yesterday by two firefighters from the Catalonian Government or three firefighters from the Catalonian Government with a skateboard of plagiarism is shameful. And that can't be... and that can't be allowed. I don't know.....then I suppose you'll have the word tower, Mr. Counselor. So I think this can't be given again, counselor – I think this can't be given again, it's not a waste. And we'd have to plant for what reason the groups ended up proposing this type of young man. I think it's because there's a certain mistrust. And the other day we talked about it, counselor, you announce a series of things that seem never to arrive; everything is on the march, but never up, counselor. And I think this is the feeling that the Internal Department's body also has plants. I think this is the feeling the plants have. So you congratulate everyone for agreeing, but I think we need to put the batteries on top of the bombers and all the things they have to do with the Interior Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.207.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, counselor..., I think this Parliament, I already wear a pair or three years, is a bit like the count of the cica and the ant: when you see it, PRs again appear on the rescuers of pools and platters, on the maintenance of forests and the prevention of fires, and then, when up the winter, again appear the motions on the deployment of the Energy Poor Law to ensure sub-administrations in the winter, etc. And I think that happens because, unfortunately, we're used to filing motions about things that the government should have resolved or that should have settled periodically, and that doesn't happen. And I agree with that with the intervention made by the socialist companion. Moreover, this year I believe that in the matter of fire prevention the situation is critical, and we therefore appreciate the motion. We are aware that the country has stood for practically three months. We see it in our cities, we see it in the harpsichord, we see the state of the woods, the basements, the camps, the rivers. That's to say, there were three months where there was practically no intervention, and we're going to a hot summer, on some conditions that will cause the basement to be dens and, therefore, the fire risk to be clear and critical. And, therefore, the first one we wanted to say is that I think we have to assume that it will be up to us to pull our shirt and assume that there are tasks that we need to do and that we need to do urgently to prevent. One of the things that always repeats to you the career of environmental sciences is that the principle of prevention and the precautionary principle are guiding principles, and this means that they are central principles and obligatory compliments that guide the development of environmental regulations, public health regulations, etc. I believe that surely, with this crisis, we have all assumed it. There has been... surely, without what has happened to us, there would be costs of prevention, of precaution, that society, including parliamentary groups, if after nothing else, they would consider that they have been going on, that they have been embarrassed. But I believe that, in democracy, we must assume that prevention and precaution are instrumental in building a society of minimum democratic guarantees. And I think it's a good time to manifest that investments in prevention and precaution, and fires, health care, and all those aspects that pose a risk to our society. Because our company lives with risks, and therefore we have to invest in prevention and precaution. And related also to this crisis that we are living, there is a certain... a certain, let's say, revaluation, even though it is a citizen, of certain essential tasks. And I believe that this country has for many years been paying a debt with a lot of essential workers in this country, among them the body of Bombers, the forest agents and the rural agents, who have experienced very difficult situations, the fruit of retailing, who are professions of risk, who are playing life, any other year, and who need the necessary supplies and investments in prevention, precaution, maintenance, infrastructure, personnel, equipment... And that many years ago they come to this Parliament every year to claim them, and that every year they explain to us that the helmets are protected by the jump because they're from many years ago, and every year they explain that the trucks are out of date, and every year we have the same motions to respect, and we have the feeling that the year we're going to have again and that two years from now too. I believe that we must take advantage of the fact that we are revaluing all those essential tasks for the welfare of our citizens, for the safety of our citizens, for the safety of our citizens, for the salvation of our citizens, for being able to do everything that we have not done during these two years, which is to put them in value, to invest in equipment, to invest in security. All right, all right, To say that we share, practically, fully, the motion. And more I think the point where there are more discrepancies has more to see with the wording than in the point itself. Thank you for presenting this young man and waiting for him to pass what should happen when someone is doing caution work, that he is not confirming the worst hypothesis, and that this young man is serving because everyone and everyone seems to be paying attention, and especially the Councillor of the Interior, that he is not repeating the worst possible scenes and that the work of precaution and prevention allows the workers and the assembly of the citizen to have a safer life this study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.208.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.209.0	Thank you, President. I'll do the positioning of our sub-group from the escho. Just a lot of things have been said. We also believe that the setting up of the Ciutadan Group is correct. Therefore, most of us will give support to this young man. It was also said... last week we had the opportunity to reason as much with the Inner Councillor as with the Agriculture Councillor on the fire campaign, based on what? Based on the learnings, based on the experience of 2019, especially with the forest fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, Segria and Garrigues. And I know you've probably heard me say that many times, haven't you? But we would insist on the same question. The situation in which we find ourselves, of great forest fires, will grow, in a climate-emergency context, and it will radically transform... We know that some things are already being done, but it will radically transform the model of how we face these great forest fires. And in this sense, then, we refer to it as much more prevention and less extinction. And with this we will remember the data we always give: that the Government of Catalonia allocates a 90_percent of the expenditure on fires of the last fifteen years... has allocated a 90_percent of the expenditure on fires of the last fifteen years in extinction. Only one euro each is intended for fire prevention. Therefore, it is necessary to reverse. I need to reverse this reality. When we say that fires go out in the winter, it means materializing this one of each of you. It has to be transformed. Does that mean we'll stop extinguishing it? I was asked by the Councillor the other day to the Commission of the Interior. Obviously not. But you have to put a lot more attention on prevention. Also about the young lady, there's a point where we'll abstain. It is the point number 6, for its writing on the subject of the Catalan Agency and the question of the maintenance of the readers. It is precisely today, by chance, that a platform was born that is said to save the rius: a responsible management is possible. Because you will know perfectly well that the territory is being raised many eyes on the actions that in the last few months the ACA is due to the end in the rivers, both of the Tordera, of the Ter or of others. Therefore, a citizen platform has been activated because people, citizens and citizens, photograph ACA's actions on river rivers, because they are from a perspective that does not take into account river ecosystems. I'm done. So we won't give support at this point. Nor will we support the question of soliciting the cooperation of the Military Emergencies Unit for the reasons that have already been put forward by other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is a turning point for Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.211.0	Thank you, President; Counsellor. Good afternoon. Well, it's been a short week since Councilman Buch and Councilwoman Jordan basically exposed the axes of the new campaign for the prevention and extinction of encany fires, and they gave us a series of data that we... didn't get away with, but it did cause some concern. Because more than six hundred fires last year would have to warn you that, in the end, one of the great investments is prevention, that not obviously extinction, that it is also necessary, but focus on prevention. And, in fact, of those six hundred fires or more than six hundred fires of the past year we have still been struck in the retina by the banks of the Ebro River of the past year, where for certain many of the roads of the Ebro River they felt very much accompanied and very grateful for the help and control tasks of the ONE that they did there. Says that, obviously, right? The arguments of the fire at the end are diverse, and there are various causes, and they are the heat, the same, the political desire, the lack of coordination between administrations – at the Ribera d'Ebre we saw precisely this –, the rural depopulation and the side effects of this depopulation, which are also, therefore, a scarce cure of... a scarce cure of the forest. The government's tools and that it has at its disposal are to improve the management of the territory, to make an efficient management of the biomass, of the paths, of the perimeters, of the basements. Actually, that's what we talked about a lot last week, but it doesn't look like another young man like this. This young man speaks of this, of improving the ways the government serves so that the fires, once produced, are less intense and more controllable, that it is the basic prevention objective that a government must follow and, therefore, we will give it full recollection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.212.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, a turn again for Mr. Castel, to position himself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.213.0	Thank you, President. Appreciate everyone's interventions. I'll start with something I didn't like to feel – I feel it, Mr. Roquer –: bad company, never. The day they flooded the AVE station and the lives of the AVE in Girona... Thanks to the UMO and its intervention they were able to open as soon as possible. Thanks to the U.S.A., as the honourable Member said, it was clear that they were accompanied by people who were in the Ribera d'Ebre in front of the riots. Thanks to the U.S.A., ahead of great emergencies, we've been..., unaccompanied, never; always well-accompanied. And what would have to be done, by political dignity, would be, from this Faristol, to aggravate, as it cannot be in any other way, the tasks, the work and the vocational responsibility that the Union places on each of its tasks. That said, thank the interventions of the parliamentary groups. But when we talk about the U.S.A., we've just missed... I have made another..., amendment, which I did not do in his day because of a lack of wording: every moment that is necessary, in every situation that is necessary. And, Mr. Roquer, always, always with responsibility as the institutional charge before the citizenry of Catalonia, before the guarantee of the security of any català that the UME needs, obviously, and you, by political responsibility, would be the first one to ask for your service and aggravate your pocket, as it cannot be otherwise. That said, thank all parliamentary groups. I think we've done a great job today. A great work not for us as an institution, a work of recollection, as I gave to the councillor's inquiry, standing at the canto of the department, and, as it cannot be otherwise, the great work before the city of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.214.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of culture for the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00211/12.]] After this young man's debate, let's go to the next item on the order of the day, which is the 11th and correspond to the next question to the government about the situation of culture for the Covid-19 pandemic, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To defend it has the word of Congressman Hector Amello. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.215.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, very good afternoon. Look, today we are presenting ourselves with a series of measures of almost eighty proposals that are resolutely addressing the main challenges and demands that the cultural sector in Catalonia needs to be able to cope with the crisis of the Covid-19. And you, today, with your vows, will have to choose what I told you in the last question, which was to choose between keeping chiringuitos or choosing culture. We have it very clear, we always choose culture. Today we propose to declare culture a priority and strategic sector. To declare the culture priority what implies is to increase the budget immediately up to 2_per_cent of the total of the Generalitat. I know that one of you will have the temptation to tell me that it is not possible to increase the budget to 2-per-cent. And I have to tell you that it is possible, because for me what is incomprehensible, for example, is that the CTTI, that IT bubble, are wasted more than 500_million_de_euro in a department that is totally opaque and that in the Department of Culture only 300_million_de_euro are invested. If you do not increase the budget immediately, it is that for you culture is not a priority, however much you vote for it today. Among the measures that we propose to you today is, for example, the elaboration of the census of professional artists of creation and culture. And here I think it will happen exactly the same, they will have the temptation to tell me that in six months it is not possible, therefore, to write this census. But it is that in 2012 the creation of a census was already approved – it was already approved – in the Committee on Culture, and in eight years, they have done absolutely nothing. And another rooster would sing if today, because this crisis came to us with the necessary tools. Another very different thing would be culture when we had all these tools at our disposal. Another tool that we need and present to you is to promote measures to promote cultural patronage, the necessary public-private collaboration, which we believe is essential. Within the competences of our community, we have enough scope to develop cultural financing tools that provide extraordinary resources to overcome this crisis of the Covid-19. The question is – and I did want to ask you this – do you have the political will to develop a law or some matter of cultural patronage? One of the characteristics of the cultural sector, precisely, is work intermittence. As a result, many professionals in various sectors have not been able to access any assistance. It is therefore necessary to set up such an extraordinary support fund so that these professionals do not stay out of the way. On the other hand, we must open extraordinary and specific lines of aid for the music sector, for the audiovisual sector, for the publishing sector, for the visual arts, for the galleries and the performing arts, aid that is adapted to the circumstances imposed by the crisis of the Covid-19 and which allows to inject liquidity into the cultural system. And so, for example, the bases and calls will also have to be made more flexible. The Programme will also have to be adapted. How much. It will be necessary to inject funds into the circuits and musical networks, to the artistic networks, to the performing arts. Also encourage second calls for aid. It will have to help the reactivation of the cinemas. Live music programming lines, lines for the reactivation of galleries and also help their internationalization will have to be promoted. Our artists will also have to be promoted. It will be necessary to help publishers with an extraordinary fund and it will also be necessary to help them when this Latin American sector, this international market, is opened. But we will also have to support them when they come to propose a new date of Sant Jordi. We will also have to help these small and medium-sized festivals which are an economic engine of the territory, of our villages and of our cities, and which also require a programme, for example, of decentralization of the TNC, so that culture reaches us all. What about the video game industry? I believe that this is a strategic sector that requires extraordinary measures. This cultural bonus must also be promoted so that all citizens can benefit and demand can be stimulated and communication campaigns carried out. Nor do I want to leave that plan to ensure gender equality, because the crisis has a perverse effect on women, and it is our duty to fight for equality. In conclusion, I wanted to tell you a story with a tragic end. Look, there was a person on a roof of a hundred-story skyscraper, and on a wasteland he had the bad fortune of rushing into the void. And as he fell, the neighbors were going out to the balconies, and they were going to ask him, "What's up? How's it going? , and the person, in his fall, answered them "for now, well. And the next balcony appeared, more people appeared and asked, "How's it going? , and that person was saying 'for the time being, okay. You can already imagine how the story ends. Today you have the opportunity, with your vote, to go out to the balcony and give a parachute to the culture, and help you lift the flight up. And, counselor, I also wanted to propose one thing. I challenged him, which was to accept this plan of the 2030 horizon culture. We shall see what you are voting on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, first of all, Mr Rafel Bruguera, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.217.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members and Members, honourable Members, will advise, indeed, we find ourselves in front of a young man who told us, if we have not counted poorly, seventy-nine points. In fact – in fact – we are dealing in the form of a motion with a proposal for a monographic ple on culture. Our parliamentary group, to the Committee on Telematics Culture on 28 April, will present what we are talking about as a reconstruction pact for the Catalan cultural sector. We proposed a total of thirty-eight measures distributed over three large objectives. In the first place, a plan of work to save the sector; in the second place, a plan of decontainment of cultural activity to return to normality, and finally, a plan of structural rescue with a look of the future. And we wanted to offer – obviously, from a position of opposition, but with will and institutional dialogue – to talk to the government. I believe that, two and a half years later, we have demonstrated our willingness to cooperate openly and openly on important issues, on nuclear issues of cultural policy. You could mention the renewal of the Conca, the modification of the statutes of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, etcetera. Well, if the pandemic and its effects on culture are not a reason to keep everyone in the same direction, I don't know when it will be, frankly. And what was the government's response to our predisposition to the dialog? Captain. One and a half months have passed and no meeting has been convened to agree on a measure with respect to the Covid-19. I, Counselor, profiting that it is here. I've told you and I've claimed three things on various occasions. First of all, counsel, leaders, take the kingdoms of the problem and speak and dialogue with parliamentary groups, and, obviously, also with representatives of the different cultural sectors. Secondly, as a result of the dialogue, we present to the Parliament of Catalonia a global decree thinking about the jointness of the sector, not with partial measures, and with our predisposition to give-harvesting. And finally, he's planted, counselled, before Councilman Aragonès. We'll take it, because it's obvious that with resources coming from the cultural premise you can't face the challenges of the pandemic in the cultural sector. And you didn't, I don't know why he couldn't, because he didn't want to, or because they didn't, probably a little bit of the three things, but the case is that he didn't. Because it is not about a program by adherence, it is not about the government deciding and the rest of parliamentary groups, by responsibility, supporting it. We are responsible, and you know perfectly well, and you know perfectly well, that some things we will never do to them, because of ethical conviction and also because of political conviction, but, in the case that it deals with us, also for the sake of the conjunction of our country's culture. Well, one of the consequences of this inaction and lack of leadership is this reason we're dealing with at these times. A motion that, with the exception of three or four points, we have already announced that we will vote affirmatively. First of all, because it retreats and reminds the Government of a whole set of necessary measures that it has not adopted, or that it has adopted them partially and insufficiently. And, second of all, because most of them actually coincide with the document that I've commented on before and that we're going to make public over a month and a half ago. And the groups that support the government, so what have they done? They have been obliged to submit proposals that lower proposals, place proposals or condition them to the presuppositional resources. Don't you think you're doing anything for culture with your resources? I'm asking. The Generalitat's assumption is 46,000_million euros. I don't think it was too hard to find a hundred additional million to devote them to the effects of the Covid-19 on culture. That's why I said I don't know if they didn't come back, couldn't or didn't leave them. Will they bring forward the things that are coming affirmatively today, as long as they speak, especially the very honorable president of the Generality, of the sovereignty of the Parliament? Will they do it? I have my doubts. By the way, and speaking of the papers, it's still curious that some parties that are said to be independent or end up with resources from the Central State. « The State that gives us money and we will already solve all the problems of the world of culture. It would seem as if his new slogan was: "Spain the rescue, Spain saves us. Thank you, Members of Parliament, Mr President, Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the turn of Congresswoman Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.219.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity of this motion on the situation of culture, since it allows us to address the strategies for rebuilding the cultural sectors following the pandemic and to transfer to the sector the concern about the impact and effects of this crisis on women cultural workers. This motion is rich in proposals; it is practically a reconstruction programme, with which we agree in part, because it contains some of the demands and proposals that have been moving us through the different cultural sectors with which we met during the confinement. But we believe that the motion has a clear liberal orientation, a mercantilist bias and a defense of culture as an industry. In this regard, we have made a number of amendments to put the complete and complex reality of the cultural sector on the table. Only one of the twelve amendments has accepted us. I am telling you that we will vote for the majority out of responsibility, even if it does not affect our amendments, but we hope that next time they will work to bring the whole sector together. We tried to point out that the major victims of the effects of the pandemic on the cultural sector are, again, the most precarious, workers in the sector who live on intermittent contracts, for whom it was difficult to receive benefits and measures driven just by this high instability and deregulation of the sector. The pandemic has exposed many vulnerabilities for which we have had to work intensively, and now it is our duty to learn from them and take steps to ensure that they do not happen again. One of the measures that is a priority for us is the creation of a census of artists and creative professionals, but we added in the amendment to women cultural workers. Again, we cannot forget that cultural reproduction has many essentials to make it work, and they must be in that census and be recognized as belonging to the sector. I don't explain why Citizens reject it. We also miss those measures for the public sector, for example in music schools. We also proposed to encourage measures to support music schools and thus ensure that the municipalities could deal with the losses, which we recall that the Generalitat disagreed with the municipal music schools and left them to their fate. If something has taught us this crisis is the need to strengthen the public, and the way to do it is to make musical and artistic teachings fair, developing public equipment through social pricing – the Department of Culture and Education will have something to say in this, I imagine. We were rejected by the amendment, but we will now have the opportunity to continue to insist and work on budget development for music schools. We share that the challenge for culture requires planning with a long-term horizon, which places the investment needed in public budgets to make it a fundamental pillar, especially now that we have the risk of losing emerging artists and creators who can hardly live by their craft. Thinking of culture as an industry, as large business groups, is not a guarantee of wealth creation or quality work, as stated in the motion, and the proof is the current situation. The instability of workers must be addressed at once and decent working conditions must be demanded in all cultural sectors, and no public investment plan can be separated from this requirement. We agree on a culture pact, but let us also take care of those who do it. Finally, and in conclusion, I am glad that one of the twelve amendments we have tabled has been accepted and that it is precisely in the proposal for the cultural bonus, which was reduced to a simple policy of stimulating consumption, without any social criteria. We have always advocated the enhancement of culture as a tool for social equity, to ensure that all people have access to art, to creation, and that culture is at the service of social inclusion; not to bonuses to encourage the public, aimed at cultural enterprises, not to a culture only for elites. So I'm glad we can talk about a social cultural bonus and a bonus policy for people. Of course, in five_minutes we cannot talk about everything, so, briefly, yes to the fight against corruption. We need to deepen the role of the public media in the reconstruction of the cultural sector, especially in music. The publishing sector needs that Sant Jordi in condition and greater support for small bookstores. For the performing arts, the role of the TNC is to make territory. We are pleased that they incorporate the gender perspective, although remembering that it must permeate all actions and measures, it is not only a matter of making a chapter. And on the role of all administrations, including the local one, we need a commitment to what is planned and to contribute from all areas to reducing the losses that have been suffered by many artists, creators and cultural workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of the deputy Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.221.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, when a parliamentary group makes a young man as long as this, we know that we can't debate rigorously, that we can't get into the detail of the points, because that's not a monogram, it's a young man, and so we'll have five points. And we will not only have time here to make a rigorous debate, but there is no time either to trade and work from the measures... I have the feeling that, more than approving as many measures as possible and helping the cultural sector, it is still a way to help one's own. But I recognize that it makes me understand that we are moving from a pandemic to a culture movement, because that means that confinement, as in many other areas, and this global up to date has brought about the shames of the professionalization of the sector. And I am no longer talking about a lack of resources, of competition, of infra-financing, but of a vulnerable system on which the cultural sector was supported. And it is a matter of setting up a channel that the government of the State has wanted to set in motion, and the political instability in Madrid has often caused the state of the artist, and the cultural sector needs, among other things, something as simple as normalization, normalizing its existence. And it's very sad to say, it's very sad to come here by 2020, yet to claim the normalization of the professional cultural sector. But Covid puts it back in the manifesto, that without a working relationship in conditions, without normalizing the professionalization of the sector, without a contractual system without cracks, without an economic and social recognition of the artists, and also of cultural workers, and without a society that understands that the workers of culture are working class and precarious, all the motions we make here will be insufficient. Because we don't have to talk so much about if we have a little more money here or there, but to shut down, rethink this system, the model we have now, and to hear that everything that hasn't been solved so far is being supported by the families of this country. I hope that all the parliamentary forces of this chamber will bring these demands to the Congress, that we will initiate this status of the artist as soon as possible, and that we understand that it is obvious that it is not the solution to all the bad endemics of the cultural sector, but it is also evident that this pandemic, which is put up with a status of the approved artist..., is undeniable that its impact has not been so fierce. And I think that, more than putting pieces, we should be able to talk about what is the model we have. For our part, it is what we will do, because the cultural sector stands by because its workers are involved, in forming part of the cultural sector, and it should not be so, because its employment situation is completely abnormal. And when I speak of this anomaly I refer to a thing as simple as the workers of culture can live from it for which they develop their work; it is to say, normalize, as I said, their work situation. It's very simple in many other areas: being able to live from what you're working on. In the cultural sector, it's not like that, and it's common sense. So, again, ask the forces of this Parliament to make the same efforts to ensure that the Minister of Culture does not have to have us triage between cinema or life, because it is good that many families in this country pass this: that in order to live from cinema they have to triage between cinema or life. We cannot make the culture of this country develop under these current conditions, because it is impossible. We have to look at how it works in other countries, we ask ourselves why this autonomous share of artists has nothing to do with the rest of Europe, we understand that one hundred is important but that it cannot only include creators and artists, but it must also go with the workers, as said the company Conchi, and hear their intermitencies and their specificities. We've met with everyone, I suppose, like everyone else in this room, and the only thing that connects the whole cultural sector is that we dignify their work. And that's what you do with the artist's status. When we have this, we can devote ourselves to talking about measures, finance, competitions, if the State, if not the State..., but under this mark of dignifying the work of the workers of culture. And lastly, make a comment about point number 26, because Ciutadans pretend to see, with this point, that it's a fight against corruption, and the only one they're trying to get out of here is a cheating headline. But we will not give them this satisfaction and vote in favour..., bearing in mind that what they ask at this point is that they are making a plan against corruption in the Department of Culture and, in that, we are against it. The anti-corruption plan has to do with the whole government, not because now they're happy to have a headline. And, therefore, the progress that will be made in the monographic plenary on the Covid will be what we will present: a specific plan, as we voted for the 20th generation, that embraces the fight against corruption of the entire government; not to make a political anecdote and to focus it only on the Department of Culture. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.223.0	Thank you, President. Ben retrobats, well retrobades, deputies' deputies, counselor. Albert Mestres said at the end of a book: "The real thing that has come to Earth is culture. Thank you, Pau Donés; thank you, Manuel Cuyàs; thank you, Rosa Maria Sardà; thank you, Quim Lecina, Luis Eduardo Aute, Benet and Jornet. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] President Torrent, I send you a reflection: this motion following the question of culture presented to us by Ciutadans brings us a few points as a result of an inquiry of two minutes. I have doubts, from my modest sco, that this imbalance improves the functioning of Parliament. For another band – and let's go to the grass – she is a pretentious young woman, who wants to be heroic and saving, but who, unfortunately, brings nothing again, Mr. Amello. There is no proposal of much greater interest, it is technically very flowing, imprecise... it is, in fact, a letter to the Electoral and opportunistic King. It starts, but unfortunately, from the same rescue, decontainment and reactivation plan that the department put into operation immediately after March 14th and that it has been made with the combined and continuous work of the sector, in order to deal with rationality and effectiveness to the immense exorcism... – yes, we have it clear, it was terrible –, to the immense exorcism that has suffered from culture, the sector of culture, or the cultural society, as Mr Pepe Serra, director of the MNAC, like to say. Certainly, they speak very little, you know, about heritage and museums in your own country, and it's a big mistake. By responsibility and conviction, the department has been in charge of museum measures. We will vote in favour of it, for all we understand is that the department is already doing, that it is a lot; much more than you, at all events, know and don't say. I'm sorry for the unwillingness they've had to trade, even in the most technical aspects. Another difficult lack of the young man, who gives away the opportunism and who gives away that you work only in front of the gallery, is the little attention, and to the most sluggish, that fans of popular culture and associationism. They don't talk about it, they don't care, they don't like it. Why don't they like it? So because it's mena integrator, and this to you, to City, it makes them very nervous. The department works because in the post-Covid stage it is possible to recover and recover all culture, all cultures, as well as live arts and popular and traditional culture. Look, we can't talk about the recovery of the culture providing the sun, as you do, and without talking about the financing of this recovery. Xifrem – the councillor has already said – in 950_million euros the import needed to face the effects on the culture of the pandemic. We're talking, we're talking about a 4_per_cent more ERTOS in culture than the average of the rest of the companies; 5,867 ERTO culture companies and 52,800 affected workers, for whom the department has made a joint loan to the Treball Department. You, who agree states of alarm and who want to help, they say, the sector, do not pile up: claim to Mr. Pedro Sánchez and to Pablo Iglesias diners for culture in Catalonia, as is being done by President Torra, that we can dispose of the money, Mr. Bruguera, that we generate, and ask that we not centralize the decisions of the competences that Catalonia has fully transferred. I complain to the PSOE, which are very consistent with you, that you cannot do many of the activities and subsidies that are now so timely and electorally demanding of us in this motion. Do you know how much recovery from the most culture could be done with a good Covid fund or with a portion of the money in the third additional provision? I've explained, please, to the sector. Explain to the sector that we are poorly financed; explain that the fiscal deficit offends us; clearly explain to the sector of video games, the performing arts, the publishing sector, the music sector, that if Catalonia had more money the way to 2_per_cent would be more fresh, easier and much wider. I also explain to the parents and the seas that it would be much easier to make a plan for music schools, as my parliamentary group would like to do, or, for example, to adopt a system of measures, which are already very urgent, for mecenating. And explain to couples and seas that they could also achieve great results and successes in the cultural motxilla, including the good of children and children of barrels with an index of lower yields and lateness. This compromise with the financing should be his repte. Explain that "the progressive recovery – and I quote the Conca – from the cultural environment, currently threatened by a major loss of jobs and jobs, will cost to pull forward if there is no more money. Why don't they say that? Why do you know perfectly well that you don't complain to the Congress of Deputies? Mr. Bruguera, Mrs. Abellan, I also tell you and your parties: extend the ERTOs, extend the distances and develop the status of the artist. More extensive, and all, for my part, for our part, an ant work; but I also ask them to prioritize in favour of culture and not just say it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix its position it has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.225.0	Good afternoon, President. From the escó, too. I will not say anything that has not already said the previous Members and Members who have spoken: an overly extensive motion, that wants to embrace everything, and in the end it does not end up in anything; if you have to make a headline about this motion, I would not know where to start. And it is also a reason that, obviously, with the list that has been made of all the needs of the artistic and cultural sector and its workers, therefore, obviously, in the vast majority of points we are in favour. Some considerations that have also been said: without labor rights and a culture of contracting, the status of the artist, which we also claim, without these labor rights and without this culture of contracting, the status of the artist will not serve as anything else. Therefore, it is necessary to promote this culture of contracting, especially in public institutions, because there are limits, right? And a few clairvoyants where this isn't clear. And, as it has already been said, the Covid makes it spread over women; it spread over women in a sector with workers and workers, not just creators and artists, but everyone who makes culture possible in this country..., they have found themselves in a totally untimely situation, the consequence of intermitency, the consequence of this lack of culture and, I repeat, in relation to how we contract and how we value culture. It has to be said that the council has done some things that we find interesting, but we also believe that we need to go further. In fact, in the appearance that we had the opportunity to make, telematics, we commented on it to the councillor, and we took advantage of the opportunity to return there. The leadership; we – and we stand ready – take the leadership to increase the cultural premise, to increase it and to give concrete expression and support to all these workers and workers of the culture. One more issue, too, in relation to the need to inject public money into the private sector. He knows perfectly well that we are not very supporters in this sense, and therefore we believe that there is a lack of proportionality. We can't talk about a small festival or a festival driven by an entity without any work than a festival driven by Estrella Damm. We cannot talk as much about big businesses in the cultural industry that have dividends, that have benefits, as about those projects that are smaller, that are more community-based, that are more terrified in the territory. Therefore, in this sense there is a lack of proportionality, from our point of view. I'm done with the language question. We, without undermining the castle, nor much less, understand that, with the limitation we have on the assumption and having a community of 500_million speakers, the castle does not need the Government of Catalonia to push it, it has a whole state behind it, a few states behind it. And, therefore, for a matter of priority, which the Government of Catalonia brings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.226.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.227.0	... – I'm done, president – to the castle edition..., it would be like a drop in a great sea. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And it is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.229.0	Thank you, President. Well, it presents a seventy-nine-point document, eleven pages, which with the election program would be acceptable, but as the motion did not just work out well. Among other things, why is she a young lady? A motion is a politically binding government mandate, but not legally. Consequently, its main problem is the low degree of compliment. To correct, even if there is a little bit, this problem will be serious, the best is to make sure that there are very concrete, very precise agreements, to try to see if there is a bit of luck and the government is on the move and completes it. Clearly, if you present seventy-nine points, eleven pages, you have it very complicated, because, of course, of the seventy-nine points, here we find some in which to oppose it would be to oppose to the world, which we will not do. But, obviously, in any case, the seventy-nine points include many of the things that we have demanded and to sum up in three points: first, priority on the political agenda of culture, with the status of the artist as a reference source; secondly, the added presupposition, reformulating the assumptions of the Generality and, above all, assuming that the bad name of the rescue plan is a small line of subsidies but never in life can be called a rescue plan, and thirdly, concrete measures to support the sector in the pandemic. And we're talking about suppression or adjournment of certain taxes, quick payments when it comes to administration and non-suspension of activities, like at least..., which happen on the part of the administration, but which end up celebrating, and, therefore, artists and the cultural sector can end up collecting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, the Member of Parliament, Mr Amello, has a late turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.231.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Ten, do you know who is responsible for the current situation of culture? You; the only ones who are responsible are you; for the unfortunate situation we are currently experiencing, are you. They have been ruling for ten years and what have they done every year, constantly? : reduce the culture budget. They have invested 0.65 of the budget. Last year, in 2019, they made cuts in the main institutions of Catalonia, and so we have arrived today. And now who do you want to hold accountable? The others? If you have cultural skills, it is you who decide how much you want to invest each year in culture. And you have decided to invest less and less. And if this year had been able, they would have done so too; let alone. Anyway, look, it's very easy: today we have brought you eighty claims that the cultural sector has in Catalonia. For what? So that we can face this crisis. And you decide, because it is you who are going to decide today whether or not you support them. And I want to believe they're all going to support them. With regard to the amendments, we propose eighty, because we believe that this crisis cannot be addressed with the same measures they were doing in 2019, 2018, 2017. And I think you're coming late and with little budget. All these measures are therefore necessary, because they are being demanded by the sector itself. We agree on some issues with the SCP. For example, on the subject of private schools, we have accepted the amendments, because we believe they enriched our text. As for the commons, the cultural bonus proposal, yes, was our proposal. We believe that it is important that you also have a social vision, so that all citizens have access to culture. And we have not been able to accept other amendments that you have proposed to us, because precisely by accepting the proposals of other groups, we entered into a clear contradiction. I also hope that the documentation will come back before us, so that we can study the measures much more thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, there are no more points to debate in this session today and, therefore, we will proceed to the votes. We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] I remind you that there have been eighty-nine Members and Members who have delegated the vote for this session, twenty-three Members and Members who have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two who will vote face-to-face. The memories they have to vote for since they've been assigned to this House, huh? [[(Pause.) Lucas Ferro Silvano Solé asks to speak.) Tell me, Congressman.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.233.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...the withdrawal of the living items we have at the Law of the Natural Heritage Agency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.234.0	Totes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.235.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.236.0	All of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podem. [[Pause.]] All right. Thank you, Congressman; we already take this into account. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage Agency (continuation)]] [[202-00036/12]] All right. So we're going to go to the votes of all the points that were dealt with during today's day. And we will start with item 2 of the order of the day, that is, the opinion of the Environment and Sustainability Commission on the proposed law of creation of the Natural Heritage Agency. The reminders that, as Mr Ferro has just said, the papers that were alive from the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pompo have been withdrawn, which correspond to votes 2, 4 and 5... – yes? [[pause]] – from this point. Let's vote on the first set of reserved items, the correspondents to the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, that go from Emena number 7 to 163, okay? The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 36 votes in favour, 93 against– adding 23 telematics – and 4 abstentions. Let's go ahead and vote for the papers... [[Narcis Clara Lloret asks to speak.]] Yes, say'ms. Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.237.0	I'm assigned, this Ple, the 76th drop, and the button didn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-06-17-5501.238.0	Now we've got it checked out. [[Pause.]] You're right, Congressman; let's check it out, and in any case, we'll repeat the vote, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I pray to the servants of the chamber that they make the relevant proof; thank you. [[Pause.]] All right, so in principle it should work. So, let's start voting again, huh? , the reserve package of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I repeat: those that go from Emena number 7 to 163. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 36 votes to 94, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, which correspond to items ranging from number 5 to 132. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Catalonia in Comú has withdrawn them, Congresswoman. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 122 against – corresponding to 99 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and no abstention. We are voting now... the final vote on the entire text of the opinion. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage Agency was approved by 94 votes in favour– that there are 71 correspondents to delegated and face-to-face votes and 23 telematics–, 40 votes against and no abstention. [[Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May on urgent measures in the field of urban planning, finance and the environment (continuation)]] [[203-00043/12]] Let us now vote on item 3 of the order of the day, which corresponds to the Decree Illi 18/2020, of 12 May, of urgent measures in the matter of urbanism, financial and environmental. In accordance with Rule 158(3), as you know, the affirmative votes correspond to the validation of the decree and the negative votes are in favour of the derogation. The vote begins. The Decree Law 18/2020_was validated by 81 votes to 16, with 36 abstentions. It is worth asking the chamber now if any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as the bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Decree Law 20/2020 of 26 May, on which various measures are taken in the field of sports as a consequence of the state of alarm decreed by reason of Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00046/12]] So let's go to the vote on the following point, point 4, which is Decree Law 20/2020 of May 26, for which various measures are taken in the field of sports as a consequence of the state of alarm decreed by reason of Covid-19. The vote begins. This decree was ratified by 82 votes in favour, against and 52 abstentions. I ask the chamber and some group wants to process it like a bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Motion following the question to the Government on the relationship between the perception of the functioning of Spanish democracy according to the data of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion and the Amnesty International Report (continuation)]] [[302-00208/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the new item, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government about the relationship between the perception of the functioning of the Spanish democracy according to the data of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinion and the Amnesty International Report. We're voting for the young lady's joint. The vote begins. The motion was approved by 77 votes to 54 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics officers, 57 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into planning to manage the risks arising from the summer campaign (continuation)]] [[302-00210/12]] We now vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into planning to manage the risks arising from the summer campaign. I'm listening to the separate votes that have been asked for, we're voting in the first place on point 6 of the motion, huh? – Point 6 of the motion. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – and 25 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, that is to say, 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of culture for the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00211/12]] We now vote on the one-off point, which corresponds to the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of culture for the Covid-19 pandemic. And in response to the separate voting petitions, we vote in the first place for the package of points that goes from 2 to 25.2. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 42 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics – and no abstention. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 42 votes by delegation and face-to-face and 23 by telematics – and 8 abstentions. Let's move on to point number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting on 19.3. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour – corresponding to 103 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – against 8 abstentions. We now vote on points 19.7 and 19.8. The vote begins. These points were approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. And now we vote on points 19.10, 21.12, 23.5, 23.16 and 25.1. The vote begins. These points were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And now we vote on points 21.1, 21.7, 22.2. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We now vote on points 22.7 and 22.8. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against—correspondents to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics—and no abstention. We will now vote on point number 25.3 – 25.3. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 82 against—correspondents to 59 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics—and no abstention. We're voting point number 26. The vote begins. This point was approved by 84 votes in favour, 33 against—correspondents to 10 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics—and 17 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 133 votes in favour – correspondents to 110 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics – against, no abstention and 1 Member present who did not vote. There are no more points to vote, there are no more points to debate today, and therefore we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
