ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Motion for a resolution on Baix Penedès]] [[250-01524/12]] We do so with the sixth point of the order of the day, which corresponds to the debate of the Motion for a resolution on the Baix Penedès. As this proposal has been submitted jointly for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, we will open a single two-minute intervention for each group and sub-group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.2.0	Good morning, everyone. We are here with a motion for a resolution on the Baix Penedès. A proposal signed by all the parliamentary groups, that is, a proposal for consensus among all the groups in this Parliament. A consensus that had long been achieved in the territory, the people of the Baix Penedès region had long understood that bell battles do not lead anywhere; and the partisan colors and actions, neither. This is made clear in the manifesto of the mayors of Baix Penedès. A manifesto approved by all the municipalities and in the district council. So far, all groups have put forward proposals on transport, industry and so on. My own parliamentary group, Ciutadans, managed to approve in 2016 a proposal on the reactivation and socio-economic development of Baix Penedès, four years ago. But this and other PRs are approved and there they stay, in the drawer, dead of laughter. And it's time for the Government of the Generalitat to put the batteries on. And this government is already impossible, for a time, but there will be more governments, they don't end here. And a need that is of justice must be met. And the whole parliamentary arc agrees. Then there's no excuse. The Baix Penedès is the worst treated region in Catalonia: the region with the most unemployment, with the lowest per capita income, a high number of vulnerable families and at risk of exclusion, and it is the region where the least invests this government in 2020 – less than 2_million_of_euros, a 0.2_per_cent of the total. A percentage which does not correspond to the population, which is about 1 and a half, nor to the gross domestic product which it contributes, which is about 0.8_per_cent; 0.2_per_cent of investments in this region. We already know that Tarragona is the province with the least budget, but Baix Penedès is the region of Tarragona that gets worse. I mean, these evils don't come from heaven. Low investments over the years are a repeated lack of interest on the part of the various governments of the Generalitat that there has been. But what really happens to this region of northern Tarragona, but what looks at Barcelona? Well, I'm going to sum up the best I can, because it's a complex issue. To begin with, we should look at a study, the Socioeconomic and Territorial Diagnosis of the Baix Penedès, published by the regional council in 2015..., which was one of the first documents I studied to enter as a Member five years ago, in the previous legislature. And it's my reference document and the Ciutadans registrars of this region of Lower Penedes – of Cunit, Calafell and Vendrell. A difficulty in the region is its large unregistered floating population. And I don't mean the summer tourist population, which happens in other areas, which also affects, I mean the second residences of people in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, which are beginning to occupy, practically, all year round. It is an unofficial population volume, but that demands services – emergencies, transportation – and that have collaborated in a very dispersed urban configuration that makes it difficult for public services to attend. We have a region with supposedly calculated care resources for a population that has nothing to do with the real, totally inadequate resources and services: less mossos, less rural agents, less firefighters, less doctors, less health personnel in general, less teachers, and also less budget. The brick economy has already resented the 2008 crisis; it has already passed, but that's where the footprint is. And now deindustrialisation adds to an unemployment situation that is very worrying. News like Saint Gobain is nothing hopeful, and now, recently, Robert Bosch, who is not from Baix Penedès, but is playing, and also affects him. And 2020 comes with the Covid and its health and socio-economic consequences. But it's interesting, I think, at this point, not to mix concepts. On the one hand, there are measures to alleviate the consequences of confinements, closures and market disruption, especially tourism. And, on the other hand, there are the proposals put forward in this motion, which are structural measures that must be implemented with or without Covid. The Baix Penedès table should promote actions such as health improvement, with more resources for CAPs, and, above all, improvements in the Vendrell Hospital; it should attack situations of vulnerability and poverty at risk of social exclusion and implement more public places in residences, among a lot of other measures. It is important that the C-32 is free for residents. Indeed, the motion does not speak of gratuitousness, it speaks of the rebalancing of tolls, but it is the toll that we have to pay for the broad consensus that we have achieved. Shock plan for reindustrialization: to facilitate projects such as Idiada, to achieve a social return in the region. And specific occupancy plans for the Baix Penedès. For this and other activities in the Baix Penedès, economic resources are needed. And I, right now, think of where they could get the first 150,000 euros a year: from the two salaries of the territorial delegate of Penedès and the head of the office – two posts without structure and with almost decorative functions. And I reserve a space to talk about the amendments tabled by the Subgroup of the CUP. You sign a motion and then submit amendments. You don't understand. If grace is to present a consensual text. It is not understood that you are now submitting amendments. I have commented at the outset that the most important value of this proposal is, precisely, that a consensus has finally been reached in Parliament, a text agreed by all. The territory is calling for us to agree with each other. Town halls, mayors, county council have moved some priorities that are these that I just explained a moment ago. And of course, I personally would have put on a lot more. I would have written it differently. Perhaps I would have prioritized the agrarian reactivation of the interior, because it is a sector that I often work for. Perhaps he would have asked for better care of Calafell's seabed. Or maybe Cunit's CAP won't close in the afternoons. Or improvements on the C-31 crossings by Calafell, Segur or Cunit. I have a very long list of grievances and needs and many proposals from citizens who are angry, who are angry, simply. Therefore, gentlemen of the UPC, I invite you to sit down and draft a motion together asking for all this that we agree. I'm sure there are things we can agree on. Others do not, but there are certainly a great many in which we can agree to make a joint motion. But this proposal is not about this. This proposal will officially create the table of the Baix Penedès and put us to work in the region. And reverse that lewdness with which this territory has been punished for years. More investment, more regular resources, better management and tailoring services to real needs. For my part, I leave it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, congressmen and deputies, vice president in office of president. A few weeks ago we knew that one of the historical enterprises of Baix Penedès, Saint Gobain, in Arboç, was closing one of its production lines. Its closure amounts to the loss of 122 places of direct work and hundreds more indirect, and doubts about the viability and future of the remaining plant, of the line that remains open. Few days later, they also announced the closure of the Penedès plants of the Bosch, Calsonic or Bergé companies. Allow me to send all of our recollection to the workers affected by these closures. These announcements put the focus on a region that has been punished for a long time by the weather, disinvestment and social problems, which have been compounded in the last few years by the economic crisis. And, all that, before the Covid. If we take the data, we see that the last few years the Baix Penedès has been the region with more of Catalonia; it has been said. We'll repeat a lot of the arguments, I think. The time of September, the last we knew, is 9,078 people, 19,92_per_cent, more than five points above 2019. And that, without any materialization of the attachments to what we referred to before. We don't even want to imagine when we compare it to the data from the year that came. But not just that. The proximity of the Barcelona conurbation and the relative ease of access mean that many people have decided to fix their home in the region, in habitats that had traditionally been of second residence, and now become the usual home. But when this happens without changing the pattern, there are malfunctions in the public service. There is more people to be cared for than it is, and therefore this penalizes the servants. This is a phenomenon that is not new, but that has spread over the last few years. The population increase that is produced quickly and without planning possibility has brought together some municipal services, such as social services, which are overflowing with cases to attend to. Or to the teaching, with rates of students per class, in some municipalities, over what the department foresees. In the economic sphere, the strategic plan of the region that was developed in 2018 identified some key elements in the work to be done: an insufficient product structure to give employment to the local population and very low before variations in the situation, a low level of training of the inhabitants of the region and a profile of people with clear disabilities in cross-border skills, a limited training offer, a system of support for the occupation and the uncoordinated product structure and significant differences between coastal municipalities and the interior. Before all this, we have a Government of the Generality that has not invested the necessary resources in the region. The data from the assumption of reversals of the last years, forgive the expression, but they are shameful. In the presupposition of 2020 is the second region for the Cua in reverse, behind the Upper Ribagorça. But we must bear in mind that the Upper Ribagorça has 3,802 inhabitants; and the Lower Penedès, 104,991. Thus, they differ significantly from those per capita in terms of inversion. But neither did the servants, as we have said before, have rejected the contribution of the government, to attend to the changing complexity of the Baix Penedès. It reproduces what the manifesto of mayors and mayors gave, which was the origin of this motion for a resolution, so as to put the emphasis on the distortion between the number of effects in terms of movements, rural agents, masters and all public officials and the needs of the region. In fact, the Baix Penedès is the least functioning region of the Government of Catalonia, with a half-digest for every thousand inhabitants. Faced with this reality, the mayors of the region – of all political colors – have planted themselves, they have said « enough. They have decided to join forces and create a joint action to create a table of the Baix Penedès. And from that joint will of the whole region, which transcends the different parties, there is no resolution proposal that we are jointly presenting today for all parliamentary groups. A few months ago, in a meeting with the District Council of Penedès, encapsulated by its president, Joan Sans, and with mayors and mayors representing all political forces, he passed on to the deputies and deputies whom we were summoned to attend and who also attended the will to participate in this table. A will that lacks the conviction that only united efforts – political and institutional – can be captivated, it can give the turn to the reality of the Baix Penedès. If it was months ago, before the pandemic, when we had that meeting, the reality of the data and the economic and social reality of the region was very worrying, imagining now, after the Covid, or during the Covid, and the closure of the companies that we have named the Inician. It's time to act. They can't wait any longer. I believe that all the groups that we are part of this Parliament are aware of this. We have all signed the proposal, which, in essence, is what the mayors of the region sent us. We have seen that the Subgroup of the CUP, as well as having signed it, has submitted papers that, in our case, we have not accepted because we understood that they distorted the claims that come from the territory. And we don't think it's an opportunity. In any case, I am convinced that we all stand together to achieve the objectives contained in the motion for a resolution, and that they are, in the first place, to push forward the project of Idiad, in a regional clause, to guarantee a social and economic return to the Lower Penedès. We are aware of the great importance of this project to the region, but also to the country's side. It is a project that generates direct occupation, quality, and which generates wealth throughout Penedès, and even in the Bottle. And not only that, it also places us as a powerful territory in research and development linked to the automotive sector. We have heard news that have come out at the press of an inversion in the last few weeks, this inversion for Idiad has been facilitated, of which we congratulate, and we believe that it is to be followed in this line. Secondly, develop a plan for the reindustrialisation of the region to reverse the effects of the announced tanks and generate opportunities for occupation in the territory. In the third place, a topic widely claimed in the region, which is connectivity to the road network and the cost that this entails for the road and road. This is why it is proposed to study the implementation, together with the agents of the territory, of the rebalancing of the usual tolls of the corridor of the C-32 in the trams that connect the region with other points, such as the entrances to the same highway and toll of Cubelles, in order to benefit the local residents while the concession lasts. Fourthly, in view of the difficult situation in which the region suffers, it is intended to focus on training and occupation and, in this sense, it is proposed to develop specific employment plans for the region of Baix Penedès and to enhance professional training in dual claus. And if we're talking about boosting vocational training, we'd have to make sure that the training offer was enough. Currently, there are institutes that have some form cycles with waiting lists in order to be able to access them from up to thirty people. So, here we have to work. Five, beyond the current health situation, the investments needed to improve sanitation in the region are prior to the pandemic. Thus, it is worth highlighting the activities pending at the Vendrell Hospital of expansion of the emergency service, external consultations, day hospital, beds of hospitalization of pal·liatius and of long stay. And yes, and last but not least, and obviously not least, but one of the most important, to increase personal and economic resources for people at risk of vulnerability, so as to increase the provision of public places of residence and day centres for large people. These are the six points of a motion for a resolution which is the result of a great consensus, not only in this Chamber, in this Parliament, but in the territory. A good show that, beyond the interests of some and others, if we want, we can find points where we can agree to give the fall to a difficult situation. You have all the groups we have set up as a manifesto, or we will set up as a manifesto, a political will. Now it will be necessary for the government that emerges from the own elections of the 14th of February to put in the media so that this will become a reality. Let's all conjure each other up so that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Mrs Yolanda López. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.6.0	Thank you, President. Good day, deputies, deputies, vice president. Today the motion for a resolution which has been agreed with input from all parliamentary groups and gathering the demands of the territory is being debated in this Chamber. Although that is always positive, the proposal reflects the great territorial inequality that exists between the territories of Catalonia. The 2008 crisis increased inequality. Now, after more than a decade of that crisis, inequality in Catalonia continues at extremely high levels and is beginning to be aggravated by the effects of the Covid-19 health crisis. The truth is that the crisis has not affected all territories in the same way, nor does it affect all neighbourhoods, but its effects are concentrated in certain areas. Inequality has a geographical dimension and is expressed on the territory. The Baix Penedès was one of the territories most affected by the 2008 crisis, a crisis that directly affected one of the economic pillars of the region, such as construction. And, unfortunately, now again the Baix Penedès is again beaten. The crisis of the Covid-19 has drastically affected tourism and the services sector, the major economic refuges that the region had adopted, despite the demand of many voices that have been warning of the need for diversification of the economy. And to this is now added the industrial crisis of car components, as a result of business relocation. We talk about announced closures, such as Saint-Gobain, in the Arboç, with 122 workers; Robert Bosch, with more than three hundred workers, i Marelli, in municipalities adjacent to the Baix Penedès, within what is said "the great Penedès", and which affect many citizens of Baix Penedès municipalities working in these industries. By the end of the first quarter of this 2020 the unemployment rate of Baix Penedès was already above 20_per_cent, a significant growth in relation to 15_per_cent that marked a year earlier. Some facts that confirm that the region will again receive virulently the shock of the new crisis. The drop in contracts has been 41_per_cent between January and September 2020, while 88_per_cent of the new contracts have been temporary, most of them in the service sector, which means that the region has the worst employment and unemployment figures in Catalonia. Trade unions have already warned of the catastrophic employment situation and demanded investment by the Government of the Generalitat. On the other hand, Baix Penedès is one of the most demographically growing regions in Catalonia: data from Idescat in recent years show that Baix Penedès was the region with the highest net migration rate. However, services in health, training, security, social services or mobility have barely been scaled up. The region has only seventeen Generalitat officials per thousand inhabitants, including in these squadron mossos and firefighters. In coastal areas such as Calafell, Vendrell, Coma-ruga, the population is multiplied by three from April to October, that is, the half of the year has three times the population of the registered one. To this are added people who are not registered all year round from larger cities like Barcelona. However, this does not impact on an increase in basic services such as the doctor, which causes collapses and gaps in services. There are many cases where neighbors have received a medical discharge signed by administrative officials without having obtained a medical visit. Neighbors and neighbours of Baix Penedès have been asking for more doctors and staff in health centres for years. Saturation also reaches educational institutions; population growth and enrolment have increased the pressure in educational institutions in recent years. Current forecasts are that this situation will continue to increase, mainly with families expelled from Tarragona or Barcelona due to high housing prices. Under this situation, in which we see that the region does not offer employment to its citizens, therefore, it must go out every day to work outside of it and, in addition, we see the increase in the population of families from Tarragona or Barcelona whose jobs are located in these territories. Added to this are the mobility problems: the journey by car becomes impossible in peak hours by the caravans formed in the C-31, and the alternative to the road is ten_euros toll of the C-32 motorway to make a little more than fifty_kilometres. The Baix Penedès does not benefit from mobility policies applied in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, because, administratively, the region is not in the AMB, but because of our mobility dynamics technically it should be. And, on the other hand, the communications and frequency of inland and coastal train lines are deficient. The Baix Penedès cannot wait any longer, the territory cannot suffer any more social bleeding, and that I believe is something we all agree on in this motion for a resolution. The Government of Catalonia needs to act immediately and decisively to alleviate this situation so dramatic that we not only live today, but have been suffering for more than twelve years. We must reverse the endemic oblivion of our region. It is time for the Baix Penedès to start being on the political agenda of the Generalitat de Catalunya. It is time to reverse the situation of dynamics that lead this region to be one of the largest with economic and social problems in all of Catalonia. It is time to reverse the historical deficits in health care, primary, specialized and hospital services that guarantee comprehensive care, and also to promote a planning of vocational training adapted to the reality of the region and with sufficient supply and the necessary degrees. It is time to stop using the Baix Penedès as the storage yard of Catalonia, which stops turning our municipalities into dormitory cities of Tarragona and Barcelona. It is time for the Government of the Generalitat to work on the creation of an industrial plan for Catalonia that will give impetus to the sector and promote industrial settlement in the region. The productive and socio-economic industrial transition that Penedès needs is a matter of country, and therefore the Generalitat has to participate decisively, providing the resources and projects that are agreed upon. A transition that has to advance towards sustainable mobility and building, the energy transition and the circular economy, perfectly compatible with the enhancement of agricultural activity, winemaking and the creation of a penedès agricultural park. It is time to improve Catalonia's mobility system with mobility criteria that are similar to European cities in terms of their areas of influence, because it is the key to the future of the territory – and here we are not only talking about Baix Penedès. Neighbors and neighbours of Baix Penedès need an urgent response, a response of proximity and joint action. A response that has municipalism and citizenship as key actors in defining the policies, strategies, actions, measures and solutions to be implemented. And that is why the creation of this table in the Baix Penedès is essential. We are proposing all the parliamentary groups in this motion for a resolution. Because this will be a fundamental step in moving towards materialization to influence the public policies we need. Finally, it is also time for the Government to stop electoralizing with our region and not use us as a pre-campaign. We need a firm, clear and strong bet after the Idiad Fund's investment approval. That the Baix Penedès needs a lot more, which is many years as a storage yard, and you have to reverse it. We are glad, of course, but it does not convince us, neither we nor the citizens of the Baix Penedès. We need more. Therefore, we only hope that the next Government of Catalonia will become aware of the Baix Penedès and reverse this situation, not as has happened with the current Government of the Generalitat and its predecessors. From Catalunya to Comú Pomem we have total confidence in the table of the Baix Penedès to make it a turning point for the region.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, it has the word MP Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. The Baix Penedès, on the horse of two of the great cities of the Principality, Tarragona and Barcelona, has long maintained a lack of project from all administrations. At the regional and national level, the heads of governments have had a long-term view of what the Lower Penedès should be like. Avocados a cortterminismo, taking advantage of the different economic onades and their respective crises that have passed through the country's mountain without consolidating a foundation for building a future for the region, favored the destruction of the territory feeding the untapped cement monster, eating the coast and spoiling the vineyards, olive groves and garrofers. The Baix Penedès survives with a chronified and with the highest unemployment rate in Catalonia – 18.61_per_cent on May 2020– for the rest of the year, between the five least-young communities that have attended higher education and a mobility punished for a motorway tram with one of the busiest tolls in the State, which connects with Barcelona, where a journey of vintage and made equivalent to having to pay twenty-two euros. This disproportion has to end with the deletion of the tolls of a concession that is about to run out, and there would be no extension of that concession. Moreover, the connections of the public service are completely deficient, becoming the station of Sant Vicenç de Calders a tap to travel towards Tarragona. A totally overflowing South R2 and the R4 with frequent timetables that transport us to the past century, offering only one train every hour in the direction of Barcelona, with more than an hour's journey. Without forgetting that, under the circumstances, the region continues to feel with the least inversion of the country. The announcement of the closing of Saint-Gobain's plants – at Arboç –, Robert Bosch – at Castellet and la Gornal – and Calsonic and Alfisa – at Santa Margarida and the Monjos – presents an immediate future of destruction of the occupation with direct incidence to the whole of life. In total, add the loss of more than six hundred direct and more than double jobs in indirect jobs. It was already possible to prove how Saint-Gobain acted, while reaching agreement with the unions, suppressing the contract with Bergé, taking out drawings of workers to supplant the work activity with an ETT. They need to be brave and also bet on a policy of barrier against displacements and offer solutions to the Baix Penedès industry. Workers and workers face these labor conflicts with a legal framework that facilitates and works for employer violence. This has some political leaders, who are the ones who will approve the 2010 and 2012 work counter-reforms – PSOE and PP – and the ones who will validate them – GNP and CiU. But we also have to assign political responsibility to those who have been and are the subsequent governments, and exercise the title of the Ministry of Labour. And that, despite timid announcements interested in winning parliamentary votes and electoral promises, have not gone through the normal process to repeal them, such as, for example, this government of the PSOE and Unites Pode. The main objective of the public administration prior to the current stock purchase must be the maintenance of the places of work. Industry is, in good part of its activities, the synonym of work of better quality and stability than the rest of the sectors, a question for which it would be useful to protect it as if it were a treasure. The closure on the part of these companies is not because they have lost, only to maintain the benefits. In these cases, the bet for the public enterprise or for the processes of nationalization constituting public enterprises that are successors both of the activity and of the workers and workers is a totally viable and logical way. In cases where the necessary conditions are given, business continuity can also be established through cooperatives. It is to say, that the workers and workers who are patenting the announcement of a corporate lock-up rebin advice, technical and economic facilities to continue with the activity through the establishment of an associated work cooperative. For what it does to business continuity – it's either through public management or operational management – it's fan-friendly changes to the Competition Law, both for what it does to credit priority as not to subrogate itself to debts. In short, since the Public Administration, it has been decisive to promote an industrial plan that stops the destruction of jobs and guarantees, thus, the survival of the fabric of a region that is particularly damaged in all economic indicators, and to which it is not possible to offer as a way out the precarious occupation and seasonality of coastal tourism. Stopping de-industrialisation cannot leave behind the challenge of the economic transition and of working towards the definition of a proper socio-economic development. In this sense, there is a need for policies to facilitate the necessary product changes for a sustainable industry, and to listen to alternative proposals that have been working for years from different citizen organisations, such as, for example, the creation of the Penedès agri-food region. An alternative that does give impulse to a model to the service of social and strategic reptes that we have today and, therefore, an impulse to a model to the service of a time, ecologically also, sustainable. Moreover, it can complement perfectly with a respectful tourist offer with the surrounding and fleeing seasonality to which the model of the sun and the platja has avowed us. Currently, the Penedès Territorial Plan is beginning to take shape, but it is a plan that has not called into question the agents of the territory, the economic and productive sector, the civil agents, and the different organizations of the territory, with participatory dynamics that leave much to be desired. In fact, this way – without listening to the territory, without listening to the people – we will never be able to build a platform that guarantees the needs of its people, because it is the people who see the territory that knows the needs of the territory and its people. This motion for a resolution is seen as a proposal for a minimum, but if you want to change the reality of the territory, if you want to make a radical turn, so that we can pull all the folds and bastify, thus, an inter-administered project with the presence of all the agents involved in the territory and equip it too – which is very important – from the premise for giving the tools to a region that, before inaction, is condemned to organic and permanent precariousness, if we do not make a structural rethinking. Call structural responses and a repositioning that gives the turn to the present state of things in a radical way. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.10.0	President, Vice-President. MPs, MPs, the Baix Penedès has been in the region for many years, with a greater turn of all Catalonia, but, more importantly, if I may, there are two additional adjuncts in relation to the Baix Penedès data. A first aggravation is: a very important part of the residents of the Baix Penedès do not work in their own region, and, therefore, they often move to adjacent comarques or, finally, to the metropolitan surroundings of Barcelona and Tarragona, for their place of work. Therefore, there is a shortage of important jobs in the region of Baix Penedès. But, more – more – the region is more sensitive to the situation than other regions. This means that when the dawn grows, the Lower Penedes grows in a more intense way. We can see the most recent data perfectly. In October, the data from this past month, the Baix Penedès is already running 20_per_cent of atur– 20_per_cent of atur–, when in Catalonia the time is 13.2_per_cent, it is to say, there is a difference of 6.5 points more atur at Baix Penedès than at the conjunction of Catalonia. Only one year ago – only one year ago – this differential was 4.8 points. That's to say, it's also kept in the last place, but more so, when it grows, it does it in a more intense way at Lower Penedès. And all this in the margins of recent announcements that we have had, therefore, of Saint-Gobain, of Bosch, of Alfisa – Bosch and Alfisa, which are not strictly in Lower Penedès, are Alt Penedès, but are in the same area of influence. The industrial activity in the Penedès is not only of the Baix Penedès, but also of the Alt Penedès, and also of course of the Garraf. And, therefore, one might think what we are doing and what we are pushing for in order to try to recover jobs in this region, in this area of Catalonia. It is not, in the motion for a resolution, nor have we proposed it, because we knew that it would be a conflict for the harms it has, nor has it yet been mentioned by the spokesman, but I do want to mention it. There is a project in a calaix that is called Logis Penedès, and which in its later version – in its later version –, by a couple of years ago, does not do more, the project, with an action on one hundred and five hectares, previews the creation of 3,500 places of work. And therefore, this would be an important injection, taking advantage of the fact that Baix Penedès is a cruel of high-capacity reelers, such as motorways, and it is also a cruel of railway lines, isn't it? And, therefore, this would be an initiative that, abandoning the prejudices, I think it would be good – I think it would be good – to put the damont back on the table. In the motion for a resolution, proposed by mayors and councillors, they also tell us that Baix Penedès is the least functioning for the population. Certainly, this is not an indicator that, therefore, urges me absolutely nothing, but it is an indicator that the public services that are available in this region are undersigned in relation to the registered population, and therefore in relation to the current census. And it is a known reality, it has already been explained, that the real population is generally much higher than the established, first, for second-residences, second-residences, for second-residences that end up becoming first-residences. And, therefore, this is also a problem that affects public services, such as sanitation or security, which is another of the recurring problems. Also, recently, and especially around Calafell and Calafell's Security, security issues and habitat robberies have been very intense and have caused citizen complaints, haven't they? Citizen complaints such as have also caused mobility problems on the coastal side of the Baix Penedès. The C-32 motorway, which was built to, precisely, lighten the urban streets, the C-31, concretely, to lighten these urban streets that passed through the beautiful mig del Vendrell, de Calafell, de Segur de Calafell, de Cunit, de Cubelles, has a disproportionate and completely disproportionate price. And, therefore, this causes that it does not do its function to drain the circulation to the internal areas, and therefore continue the circulation coll·lapses, not to the Vendrell nor to Calafell, that they already have their variants, or not to Vilanova, that also has its variation, but between Cubelles, Cunit and Segur de Calafell, where they continue to produce many coll·lapses. But, in addition, there are security issues in relation to travellers. And so they have already denounced the citizen mobilizations that have taken place in Segur de Calafell, one, to claim better in the C-31, and, therefore, to improve the urban permeability of the C-31, and the other, to try to allege the toll of the C-32, which, many times, is absolutely inexhaustible. We're only talking about the C-32 to Cubelles, but if, more importantly, we add continuity to Barcelona through Vallcarca, then it's still a lot harder. Another problem that arises at Baix Penedès, but also in many areas, even rural in Catalonia, is the occupation. Many times we talk about housing, and we think that occupation is a phenomenon that has a place in large cities. No, no, in small towns you also have a place to occupy houses. And sometimes, many times, just as an occupation in a community of veins ends up distorting the coexistence between the veins, so, in a village an occupation, usually, also ends up with major conflicts between the veins. And this is one of the themes that they also pose on the table. When does the patience of the mayors and the district council shut down? So it's slavish, roughly, when the government presents the assumptions of the Generality for the year 2020. And why do you want to do it? So shut up because, before all these situations, they expect there to be a reaction from the government and, therefore, there are some powerful assumptions, that they can give a different horizon to the region. And a lot of these aspirations, which you see in the assumptions of 2020– and which, I insist, is when patience is sealed and when the punch on the table is given – the assumptions of the Generality..., said the deputy Ibarra: "They are the ones who have the least inversion, the second region that has the least inversion in absolute values. In relation values is the least inverse, is to say, the inverse per inhabitant of Baix Penedès – per inhabitant censused, eh? – it is of dinou_euros per inhabitant, while the middle of Catalonia is of 131_euros. This represents that the investment is less – less – than 2_million euros on a assumption of investments of 1,371_euro. Deputy Ibarra said: "The Upper Ribagorça has less inversion even though the Lower Penedès, has fewer inhabitants. That's right. The inversion average per inhabitant in Alta Ribagorça is €316 per inhabitant; in Baix Penedès, dinosaur. He says: "Well, this is a year that the government has gone wrong and so on. Let's go back. For example, liquidated data, exercise 2018: the investment to Baix Penedès was 1_million euros on a total of investments of 810_million euros. And that's the problem. The problem is that the neglect is not a year old, but that the neglect is a year old and, therefore, the problems, long to be solved, continue to worsen. The feeling of being abandoned, absolutely abandoned by the administrations is very widespread. And the result of this, if you say so, is that the mayors and the local council are proposing to us the creation of this institutional table because all of the papers try to capture this situation and put the Lower Penedès on the table of priorities and concerns of the government. So let's get going. We are absolutely prepared to do this, but we also say: as far as institutional action is concerned, because it is an institutional table – deputies, mayors, government – to correct policies of the same administration, it would also be good – and so they have made it known to us – that, in one way or another, associations, the Federation of Great Penedese Entrepreneurs or trade unions, which can also contribute a great deal to the issue of reindustrialisation. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lluïsa Llop has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.12.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Let us begin this plenary session this morning, addressing a very important issue for the Baix Penedès, but also for the territorial balance of our country, such as the creation of a table aimed at addressing the problems endemic to the region, and from which we have been demanding solutions for a long time, especially and with greater emphasis, from the manifesto of the mayors and mayors of Baix Penedès, a region which, as they say, claims solutions, and which, above all, claims to be able to implement these joint solutions from all spheres and from all administrations. The Baix Penedès, like the Penedès in general, is in a geographically privileged situation, close to the two large metropolitan areas: the metropolitan area of Barcelona and that of Tarragona. And this generates great potential for the territory, which is often complicated, its application, at the time of being difficult to make decisions from the territory, because it ends up being subject to different areas of administrative decision-making. For the region pass the main axes of terrestrial communication, pass motorways, highways, pass trains, pipelines, water, lighting, etc. We're a step-by-step land, and that's what made the last 20 years of this strategic situation take Down Penedès to be one of the most changed businesses. The Baix Penedès has had an important population growth from the principles of the 21st century. A strong growth since 2000, which has certainly moderated with the crisis – despite the fact that it has not ceased to grow – and which has now retreated with force, and not only that, but also that, according to the latest population projection of the Idescat, in view of the period 2018-2033 the Baix Penedès will continue to feel a region that will grow in population, of which the most will grow in the country, with about fourteen thousand inhabitants according to us is expected until 2033, reaching 117,000. This evolution of the population has a great impact, if we think that the year 2000 the Baix Penedès had 56,000 inhabitants – a little more than 56,000 inhabitants – and that passed, in 2010, to hold more than 99,000. In just two years, the Lower Penedes almost came to double the population, and this continues to feel that way. This rapid demographic growth has caused two effects, basically. It's caused a lot, hasn't it? , but two particularly important effects. First of all, it has put a great deal of pressure on essential public services, on all public services in general, it has put pressure on services such as education, sanitation, social policies, and public safety services, which are obviously conditioned by this huge increase. With the added problem – and I will not enter it, because there have been different Members and Members – from the seasonal population, as well as the people who saw there in the second residence in a stable way and who are not registered, but who do ask for the necessary services. One_second effect of this strong population increase is that for years this has led to an increase in the occupancy of housing alone, and therefore also of the construction activity in the region, which has become, basically, the economic engine, together with the services. This, with the onset of the crisis in 2008, a crisis that struck, and we all know it, strongly in the construction sector, caused the region to be severely impacted by this crisis – and, as different speakers have said, the facts of the region's history show it – and made the Baix Penedès follow the region of Catalonia that in the last two years has had the highest index of the country. A trek that has gone, sadly, with the crisis of 2008, that has gone moderate, despite following the distance of the middle of Catalonia, and that now, with the arrival of the Covid, it has gone back to a rate of 19.69_per_cent d'atur– given the September 2020–, and a date that obviously does not contemplate the temporary regulating shippers, does not contemplate the ERTO, which we hope will not end up getting even worse. All this is added to the announcements of the reception of the workers of the Saint-Gobain Glass factory, of the 122 workers affected. There are also the announcements, despite the fact that, strictly speaking, the factory is not in Baix Penedès..., there are the additions of Robert Bosch, of Alfisa, of Calsonic. Therefore, a situation is added in the region where the workers and their work centers do not understand administrative lines, and therefore it will impact the workers of the Baix Penedès, which, in this negotiation, are with very unequal tools for the labor reform implemented by the Spanish State. From here, all the support for affected workers. The Baix Penedès, as I said, has all the potential to be a region ahead, with opportunities for decent work for everyone, an idony location, with connectivity with large road infrastructures, but which are often not permeable to the territory. Infrastructures like the C-32 pass us, but they can neither profit nor draw 'lsel yield for their high cost of use. It is a solution in this area, surely, to resolve in a global way the use of the high-capacity lives of the country, so that the use of these ceases to penalize the veins and veins and enterprises, above all, of the Lower Penedès. We need to attract and generate investments to re-industrialize the Penedès, to generate quality jobs that improve job opportunities and, at the same time, re-establish the incidence of hard work and make us stop being a region where its inhabitants have to leave in order to be able to work. In this sense, investments like the announcement for Vice President Aragones in July and already approved this week for the Government of the Generality to allocate more than 15_million euros to Idiada to build the new test tracks and installations for the autonomous and connected vehicle are very good news for the region, which must be the first of a series of more news. From Esquerra we are clear what we want for the region: we want innovative, sustainable, net industry, which generates quality occupation, which brings quality jobs; we want industry compatible with wine-growing and tourism, with coastal and inland tourism, but also with wine tourism, and, above all, we want to take advantage of the potential of civil society, such as the agri-food region. And we also have very clear what we don't want: we don't want logistics policies empty of occupation and with a high impact on the territory, we don't want a Logis Penedès logistics. For this reason, all this work that is presented, that some of the different institutional areas are driven by policies that support those aspects where the region has major weaknesses, such as the qualification of human capital, the support and the impulse of entrepreneurship, the impulse of research, development and innovation and technological transfer. Also from the institutional sphere, we decide, from the same territory and taking advantage of the current opportunity offered by the partial territorial plan of Penedès, define which Baix Penedès we want. It takes a long way to get us to be the region we want, while, obviously, solutions are put in the short and medium term. In this sense, it is necessary to deploy tools such as those already in the territory, such as, for example, the Strategic Plan for Development and Occupation of the Baix Penedès 2017-2020, which was done with the collaboration of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, and which cannot be left on the shelves of the district council, but must be the cornerstone of this development. And while all these strategic axes are being adopted, they can continue to empower health services, social services, education, the qualification of workers, etc. Certainly, there is a great deal of work, and since Esquerra we are convinced that we can do it. Finally, and as other previous Members and Members have done, announce that we will not be able to support the papers submitted for the CUP. He has done a lot of time and work with the territory to agree on a text that we have signed with all the different parliamentary groups in a unanimous and even more important way: we have not only done it by the parliamentary groups, but we have done it by coming back from the territory. So, more than we can consider that some of these items can be enriching, we understand that it is a priority to preserve the unity that has led us to this text as well and to present it together, because we are sure that this is what falls to Lower Penedes and Lower Penedes and Lower Penedes: a serious and joint effort of all spheres of responsibility, starting with the joints, the district council, the provincial parliaments, the Parliament and, obviously, the Government of Catalonia. The Baix Penedès and its inhabitants deserve a way out to prosperity and social justice and sustainability for the territory, and this is a first step. Now we've got the folded fem and we're responding to the raised reprehenses. From the left we are absolutely convinced that we will do so, that this is a first step, but that is an important step, they see the unanimity of all folds, and we stand by to continue walking like this for the benefit of the Lower Penedès. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, from this motion for a resolution, I would highlight two things. The first, which is not common in the House, is to debate questions so concrete and precise of a region, that this is usually discussed in committee. And, precisely, this is the first thing to put into value, because it shows the exceptional character of the situation of the Baix Penedès, which, in fact, the motion for a resolution, as has already been said, is the result of the petition of the territory, of the district council, of the mayors and mayors of the territory, which, precisely, is called for a determined action in this region. And, precisely, this is the second fact that I think I should stress, as has already been said, but I should like to reiterate, that it is a proposal for consensus from all groups, which, before this demand from the territory, has been able to answer with what it is approaching, that it is attentive to the concrete petitions of the territory, to reach dialogue, obviously, but to negotiate and end up reaching agreements. And that's the main value it has. And here really is a lot to thank for the attitude of all the Members who participated: Mr Domínguez, Mrs Llop, Mrs Ibarra, Mrs Yolanda, also, on behalf of the CUP, Mrs Sirvent, Mr Santi Rodríguez and, modestly, so, I myself. And I want to point out that, moreover, it is not the first time that the deputies of the territory in Tarragona, beyond the political colors, more than defending the ideas that we all have, very different, in other respects, we have been able to agree in the interest of the citizenship of the territory. We have the example of the same Commission for the Study of the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector, stop the accident of Iqoxe, another terrible disgrace to the territory, but also the proposal for a consensus resolution among all the deputies of the territory in relation to the need for a railway axis of goods for the interior. And here is where, precisely, I want to frame the fact of rejecting the items that are fan of the Subgroup of the CUP, because, more than that they may be more or less uncertain, they break this need for consensus and unity of action, which is what was being asked of us. Concrete agreements were called for on concrete actions that will take concrete and real shape. And, precisely, there is no understanding of this petition of the territory to see this need for action by all, beyond the logical ideological differences, which causes us to reject these issues, because it has been a long time for the mayors and mayors to ask us to share a country strategy to promote the region socio-economically. And it has been said, the region of the Lower Penedès is the second region with the least of which you would work for the head of Catalonia, and which, in effect, stems from one of the great problems that this region has, which is seen with an alloy of uncharted population, which, therefore, does not take into account in the times of calculation at the time of establishing the workings for all the different servants, it is already of bombers, mossos, rural agents, sanitation, teaching... Because, for one band, there is a lot of people expelled from the metropolitan area of Barcelona for the price of housing, it is buying or lysing, and, moreover, it is added to being a tourist area. Obviously, it also lives on tourism and has an important tourist industry, which has another flood of people floating during the summer. And that causes these service failures that claim us to return from the territory. And, indeed, for more than two years, the region with the most turbulent of Catalonia and 'asks us..., the proposals for resolution in reality are part of the requests of the territory, to give answer to these requests of the territory. I, for example, call for policies of re-industrialisation, essential after the announcements of closure, as has already been said, of Saint Gobain, of Bosch – or that it is not itself proper there– ; and these policies of re-industrialisation are linked and must go hand in hand with educational policies in terms of dual, training, links with the enterprise. They also, of course, penalise the region for all the issues of mobility, effectively, of motorways. Of course, connectivity to the south as well as to the north ends with the col·lapsing, precisely, of the interior lanes facing at the cost of the motorways, passes through the motorways. Therefore, there is also a need here for a policy of being able to reconsider these tolls and, obviously, for the benefit of the mobility of the residents of the area. The problems we have said about the unregistered population ratio, but of the real population living in the area, plus the summer-derived floating, cause these deficiencies of services in health and education. In the case of education, with the question, with the problem that is repeated every year of living registration. And all the actions in this sense, precisely, have been collected, of consensus, with the will that they are effective in this motion for a resolution. The Baix Penedès obviously cannot wait any longer, and must act decisively to deal with its situation and reverse the dynamics that lead it to be one of Catalonia's major economic and social communities. And it is the situation that motivates this motion for a resolution to create a Table of the Baix Penedès formed for the president of the County Council of Baix Penedès, mayors and mayors of the region, the deputies and provincial deputies of Baix Penedès, also the deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia linked to the territory, and will also have to cry out the social and economic agents of the territory, in this table. Obviously, they will also have to be listened to and their parents will have to be taken into account to draw up an agenda for the Lower Penedès, with a series of concrete political actions, which are behind the resolution proposal, to develop to halt and reverse this situation. And, ultimately, more than making an agenda of the Baix Penedès, it's ending up putting the Baix Penedès on the agenda. And the first action that is envisaged is, precisely, in relation to Idiada, and here we do welcome the investment already announced by the Government of 15,3_million euros for the construction of the circuit, which will generate 243 jobs per year during the construction, with an additional GDP of 12,3_million euros, which, moreover, Idiada is a strategic project for the automotive industry of Catalonia, and after the Nissan crisis. And this subsidy for the department is also precisely linked to Idiada thinking ahead of the future, in the face of advanced systems of autonomous driving and auto electrification. The General Directorate of Industry will also start the car platform, equipped with 13_million euros, precisely, oriented to automotive companies, which will also have an impact on Penedès and, concretely, on the region of Baix Penedès. The economic impulse table of the Baix Penedès, focused directly on reindustrialisation, will also have to take into account – there has been reference for some previous Member – the project of the Logis Penedès. From our group – and in its day to the Committee on Territories, we have defended it – it is a project that we believe is interesting and necessary for the territory. The opposition to this project, at least what was manifested to the committee, was because it altered the landscape of the Penedès. We all like, first of all, the landscape of Penedès wineries, it's precious. But the landscape of Penedès wineries is an industrial landscape, of agricultural industry, therefore, perfectly compatible with logistic activities, and more, as is precisely the region of the Baix Penedès, which can be an axis, a logistic nucleus of communication and desaturation, both from the metropolitan area of Barcelona and from that of Tarragona. Also the Department of Territories has to activate the mobility table of the Baix Penedès to include this study, as we say, of the rationalization of the tolls of the highways, but also of the public transport. And no less important – no less important –, nor that it goes to the last, is the later preview that we have to the motion for a resolution, which is: also to attend to the areas of care to people at risk of vulnerability derived from the high point of view, with much disgrace, with much presence, to the Lower Penedes, and also public places of residence and day centres. Therefore, this motion for a resolution shows that this collective commitment of the territory, the collective commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore also of the Government, to constitute this table in order to reverse this situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, only confirm that different parliamentary groups have positioned themselves in the sense of not admitting the papers submitted by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Therefore, these items would not be voted on, the original text would be voted on; and we would do so, like the rest of today's points, at the end of this session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the care of the great people]] [[302-00249/12]] Let's continue with the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the attention to the great people, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.16.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor, this young man here today is the product of the inquiry, and therefore deals with some of the issues that we discussed in this Parliament a little less than fifteen days ago, and has some points that I would like to place. In the first place, observe the social situation of Catalonia. A social situation that starts from a few details, from the point of view of public services and social policies, very important. And I also find that we are the autonomous community still with a list of expectations for Spain's higher dependence, which, yes, has to do with a question of infra-financing, but other autonomous communities with the same problems of infra-financing are not in this situation. We want to establish teleassistance as a subject right for those people who are not in a residential appeal. This is also part of the agreement of the Interterritorial Council of Social Services a few weeks ago, but we thought it was important to place it here, because we consider it to be the first step towards this social attention, above all, intended for the great people, which we also discussed in the committee of study in this Parliament, and therefore take a step forward in strengthening the social benefits that they make from the point of view of home care. We're also entering this young man two points that come to be paid. Paying for what the government has committed in the decree we discussed yesterday, and therefore making payments to all those centers in the residential area of Catalonia. Our initial proposal was to do so in fifteen days. After yesterday's discussion of the decree, and that, therefore, it came out forward, and from the papers presented by the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, we have accepted that in place of fifteen days it is a month, and that, therefore, before November, these moneys remain entered in a sector that, I insist, continues to paint, and much, this lack of funding. We also want to make public the data of the evolution of the dependence in Catalonia. The month of March is not up to date. We do not have these data, and it seems to us that it is a question that would be easy to solve, and that we enter the web page – we and any city – and we do not know what this evolution was, and therefore we would like this simple thing to be done before the year ends. There's time, huh? And also give to know by writing to parliamentary groups, and also in this monthly performance report of assumptions, the fate and amount of funds that have arrived on the part of the Government of the State. Here we arrived at a transaction between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana to use the two lives. For one band, which can be published in this monthly report, but for another band, that parliamentary groups can have more detail by writing. Two more points. Family. We find again, in this second wave of the pandemic, that the information to the family respects the state of health of the residents– of their family members who are residing in a residential resort– does not work. There are some centers that do very well and other centers that don't. Go on, the family, complain that they don't know what the state of salvation of their family members is. And that's what we approved by July, and it's a specific protocol, so there's some clear instructions as to how the residential centers should inform the family members who are outside, who are concerned about their people's state of health. It can immediately resume the assessments of the degree of dependence. The counselor explained this, quite rightly: this pandemic situation will make the waiting lists even more poignant, and they will still rise more if we do not recover the valuations by dependence that is being taken away from the territory. Some parts of the territory have recovered, others have not. And we also urge them to reduce the bureaucracy that at these times also dilates the expectation between the demand for dependency and for performance, as other autonomous communities have done. I can't wait for the interterritorial council pact. Two more elements I could pose on the table. The plan to reduce the lists of dependence, which is fundamental, and to arrange, in the term of one, the squares of the day center of Mont-roig del Camp, to Tarragona, as marked by the signed agreement, and, moreover, to put date, to put a calendar of all the places that it is compromised the Government of the Generality to open for what it does to the day centers. And we put in one thing that we talked about yesterday: to make it happen, and we believe that in fifteen days it is possible to do, the payment to the day centers of Catalonia that they do not cover since March. So, do the favor of paying, because you have the resources, and I don't know how you want to face a pandemic of these characteristics if you're not even charging what you would have to pay from the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.18.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, deputies, councillor, fear re-installs itself in the homes of older people. The second wave of the Covid-19 has already begun and is again gnawing at the residences of our elders. The latest data indicate that more than 12_per_cent of residences in Catalonia currently have some contagion. The average age of the contagions does not stop rising, the virus begins to reach the most vulnerable people again, and we are very concerned about this. It is true that in recent days the growth of the epidemic curve in Catalonia has slowed, but cases continue to be added. Cases that reach the residences, such as the residence Itaca Fortuny, of Reus, where it was found that fifty_and_four of the sixty_and_nine residents and twenty workers had been positive. And the gentlemen of the Government are right when they talk about cuts in the Dependency Act, and it is also true that the Government of the People's Party left the Dependency Act on wet paper, something that affected all the autonomy of the Spanish State, but not just Catalonia. However, Catalonia is in line for waiting lists at the level of the Spanish State. Specifically since 2015, Catalonia has kept virtually the same waiting list: more than 75,000 people recognized as dependents do not receive a benefit or service, being the territory of the Spanish State that has incorporated the least beneficiaries percently – only 22_per_cent, when the state average is 43_per_cent. And it is that the Government forgets that, in order to explain the situation in Catalonia and why this situation is much more dramatic in our communities, it is necessary to mention the 4,314_million_euros cut in social spending by the Generalitat of Catalonia in the last ten years. The budget agreement for 2020 between our parliamentary group, Catalonia in Comú Puem, and the Government has been the first stone to reverse ten years of tariff freeze in the sector by the Generalitat de Catalunya. It was thanks to our agreement, by which this week the Government was able to announce the increase in tariffs for the large people sector, and they know it. Also today we can say that thanks to the State budget presented by the Government of the United Nations Podemos and PSOE the unit will receive its largest departure since 2012. The general state budgets submitted for 2021 represent a 34_per_cent increase in dependency, which is 2,354_million that put an end to the People's Party's cut-off policies. However, as I said earlier, the Government must assume its share of responsibility. That is why we consider the motion tabled by the PSC today to be very correct, a motion that contains some issues that the Government should have put into effect. We therefore understand that it is important for them to be required by Parliament to comply with a time limit; hence our contribution to point 6. It is incomprehensible that, at a time like the present one, the Government is dragging a debt of more than 16.6 million in aid that should have been made effective after the adoption of Decree 29/2020 in July. A situation that has endangered the November payrolls of many workers of the residences of Catalonia. The Government adds, to precariousness, more precariousness. It is vital that the assessments of the degree of dependence be reprimanded immediately; such an important service cannot be left unattended. On the other hand, we have also made other efforts to strengthen this motion, because we consider it important that the Government immediately strengthen residences, equip them with the necessary resources – personal, material, tests, health care guarantees. We're in a second wave of the Covid-19. Please don't make the same mistakes again. Let's not see any more suffering in the residences. At the heart of this, it is also very important that communication protocols be guaranteed between service managers and family members of residents. And even more so in a situation like the current one. We do not want any more families to go through the anguish that many families of residents went through during the first wave of the pandemic, when they were not aware of their elderly residents. Let us learn, learn, from the mistakes of the past, act now, that there is no resident or unprotected worker left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elisabeth Valencia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor..., and I have to tell you how long without seeing you, councillor. Look, last plenary session we were waiting for you here when we presented the report of the conclusions of the Parliament's committee of great people, a committee that has been working together with the sector for two years on proposals to improve the policies of great people, and no one from your Government had a gap in the agenda to come, unfortunately, to this presentation of the conclusions. In the Committee of Inquiry we have put forward very necessary proposals. And the truth is that, once again, then, we regret that the Government has not come to this presentation of the report. Well, counselor, you, apparently, are getting quite an allergy lately to come to Parliament, you and the health counselor, responsible for managing residences during the first wave of the virus. When all the opposition in bloc we are asking from the Committee of Inquiry into Residences, and also from the Bureau of Parliament, to come face to face for the information that is coming out about residences, you do not find a gap in your agenda to come. This same week the Esquerra and Junts groups passed through the roller, through the Bureau of Parliament, to prevent the councillors from coming to appear, both in plenary and in the Committee of Inquiry into Residences. From Citizens we believe that the information that is coming out about the management of residences is a big show, and the counselors the first thing they had to do is come, face and clear things up. Look, during this health crisis there were 6,700 people who died in Catalan residences. And I no longer ask you for us, we ask you for all the families we have lost – because I too – loved ones in the residences. Any suspicion of the management of residences must be immediately clarified, counselor. We're talking about human lives. Look, when family members take our loved ones to residences it's because we can't keep them for longer in our homes, we leave very dear people depending on the care of residences, and it's amazing that when Catalans are up every day with new information about very serious events affecting our loved ones, the counselors responsible for residences, you, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, and Mrs. Vergés, don't face this Parliament. The telephone calls to Mr Vendrell seriously commit members of his Government to actions which, if true, would be extremely serious and would undermine the human dignity of our elders. It's outrageous. What about the government he's doing? Well, deny the big one. They say it's an operation of the state sewers and they don't report anything or open any internal investigation in the departments involved. It seems rather unfortunate to us, actually. Well, I already announce that from Citizens we are not going to stand idly by and we have asked for a specific plenary session so that both the Councillor of Afers Socials and the Councillor of Salut can explain the alleged corrupt plot that, according to this information, is linked to their government. Well, on the SGP motion, comment that we are going to support it, because it reflects many of the measures that we have promoted alongside the sector, both in the committee of great people, as in other areas, and in motions for resolutions. The motion notes the very serious situation that we have in our community with the waiting list of dependency and the waiting list of residences. We have the largest waiting list of Spain's dependency and access to residences. And here we recall that the Government must also make a budgetary commitment to the autonomous budget to reduce the waiting list, as they have done in other autonomous communities. The Socialist Party also calls for measures, which we support, such as ensuring that home care is a guaranteed right for all those who need it. We need it, and especially in the face of this context of health crisis. We only want to comment to the PSC that we are tabling an amendment to the motion to negotiate better funding for the Law of Dependence between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, and it has unfortunately been rejected. We don't understand why. It is clear that improvements can still be made in the funding of the Law of Dependency in Catalonia. On the other hand, I would like to comment that the motion also calls for a concert of urgent places for Mont-roig del Camp. Casually, it is a municipality where the PSC governs, while then it is only asked to schedule the pending concerts with other Catalan municipalities. You can see the plumer a little. Here the question is to conclude places in accordance with the agreements signed and where it is most needed, which is not only where you, gentlemen of the PSC, govern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.22.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Today we are again debating, at the proposal of this SCP motion, about the great people, dependent people, residences and care resources. A recurring theme is the impact of the pandemic, which has particularly affected these collections. We understand that from the perspective of a parliamentary opposition group, he wants to repeat debates on such a serious and worrying issue. We would be willing to talk constructively to him sometimes, both our parliamentary group and the government officials, encapsulated by Councillor El Homrani, but we are surprised by the lack of a global vision with which the measures to deal with this challenge are put in place, because you only require the Government of the Generality. Is it true that the Government of the State does not have any responsibility in the matter before us, as was communicated to it by the company that preceded me? That's fine, because this is the Catalan chamber and we're doing the work of legislating and controlling the government's work, but what's not right, people, is when the Generality is solely responsible for issues that are shared with other administrations or are making statements that do not fit into reality. It is not certain that the investment in social policies has been reduced since two years. Just to give a more recent example: the assumptions approved in 2019 increased the expenditure of the Health, Work, Social and Family Departments and Education to levels higher than the maximum sunset in 2009 and 2010. No like the State, going from 335_millions the year 2010 to 203,5_millions the year 2019. As you will understand, the difference is very great. And it seems to me to be a very little honest exercise to hold the Generality solely responsible for the waiting lists of dependence when the State has never completed with the payment that corresponds to it as to the system of care for dependence and the personal economy, with an overload to the Government of the Generality, so that, although it takes more resources than they approach it, it continues to accumulate the waiting list. In fact, the State recognized it in the plenary of the Inter-Territorial Council of Social Services and Unit, it was said that they only pass the 12_per_cent of the 50_per_cent that correspond to it, and that, if we make the calculation, Catalonia is assuming the 88_per_cent of the part that obviously stops paying the State. You, Mr. Moreno, do not consider that since you are also ruling in the Spanish State and, moreover, with the companies of Podemos, with this government, "the most progressive of history, do not consider that you should also make this complaint to Madrid? For what it refers to the soc plan, say that the department set aside a soc plan to reduce the waiting list for the value of disability and dependence with an additional investment that exceeded 750,000_euro. To the band of the most declarative part of the young man, who until now rebaptizes it, there are points that we will abstain, because, all that seems to us a good tool– as, for example, the point on which the right to teleassistance is asked is right subject–, I remind you, Mr. Moreno, that it is – as the company that preceded me has commented – responsibility of the State, and that we do not have competitions. Now, we are willing to talk and talk and that our Madrid companies also support this initiative, if you take it to Madrid. And finally, to say that we vote in favour of many points, that we appreciate that we have accepted different points that we have presented, including we have come to deal with some point, and to say that we accept many of the points, such as, for example, that of the payments, that I am referring to, because today the Councillor has said it many times, that it is a matter to which he has committed himself, to unhook everything that was pending, and that is now that they are already doing so from the government. And that we will also give him support, along with other measures that this young man poses. And finally, tell them that we are always, always willing to talk and build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Josep Maria Forné. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.24.0	President, Counsellor, Members and Members, first of all, express my consideration to the proposing Member, both for knowledge and for compromise on the social issue. And that's what I know and, therefore, to thank the initiative he does, and that's why I feel it, and it's true. But this does not mean that we agree on everything there is, because the young man has two parts, one that is political positioning and one that is concrete proposals that try to answer concrete problems. Both in the diagnostic as in the proposals I think we coincide in a 99, not to say the cent_per_cent; not in the political positioning and, in any case, that's where I'll go. It is true that it is a proposal about the great people, and already in his intervention he distinguished, for a band, the great people who are institutionalized or the great people who have a need for dependence, and the great people who do not have that need, but who also need active policies. But it is true that the young person is dedicated exclusively to the most vulnerable people and, in this case, the people most connected with the needy, say, of residential care, mainly; however, the subject of teleassistance also refers to the topic of home care. As I said, there were two parts, and I would like to focus more on the issue of political difference and, to me, on the arguments that there are, for which it refers to the diagnostics of the problems detected and the proposals that there are..., in the majority, therefore, we will vote in favour of or abstain from that which, in some way, is an implicit support for this position, both for the issue of empty places, at the time of resolving the expedients – which is essential – the issue of the list of hope, etc. To say that one thing is the diagnosis, the other thing is to hear what is the cause of all this, which is to which the first two points refer. Therefore, in this sense I am not, because it has already been intervened. Yeah, it's kind of a weird bulletin there, the Mont-Roig theme. It is not by chance that Mont-Roig is of agreements that refer to 2010, when there was a tripartite government, and they sign those agreements without a presuppositional reference and now call it there. When there is a very general problem it's a bit of a newsletter, but go, Mont-roig deserves all the attention and all the cure and, therefore, welcome if it succeeds. But let's understand that it's a bit of a party newsletter that you do on this occasion the issue of Mont-Roig and, more importantly, your reference to some agreements at a certain point in a tripartite that came out, ended and signed agreements at times without presuppositional references. But the subject of political positioning, in this brief position, would be the subject of political positioning. There are two parts, that of the proposals and, then, of two observations. There is a finding that the waiting list, mainly – this is more like a mantra that is repeated – is the longest in the State. And it is true that intervention is a reference to infra-financing, and it is recognized that there is an under-financing for which it refers to the issue of dependence. Yeah, there's underfunding, but it's not the same for everyone. That is to say, it is said: "All communities have underfunding. Why do some of them? Does this make it worse than the others? Well, it's just that we don't all have the same underfunding. Because this underfunding is not only in the concept of dependence, but also linked to a general underfunding linked to a fiscal deficit and – as was also said – to the failure of the State from its zero moment – because at the time zero was already 60-40 of 50-50 that had to be done with dependence..., this 88-12 that we are at present. So there's a problem with infra-financing, but it's under-financing... And, besides, there's another topic, and it's a topic that has economic problems and there's treasure issues. Administrations are very skilled at the time of centrifuging the debt, and the State has been very skilled in the previous crisis and will do so now too, centrifuging the debt. Yes, it compromises some transfers, very well, but after they are only on paper and at the time to execute them the Generality turns out that it has to give answer to some providers that it is she who has to give face with this debt, when she only has a centrifuge debt per part of the State. Therefore, we do not agree with this political position to clear up a responsibility; it is to say that there is a problem here with the waiting list; we agree. And, besides, we need to find it, and we need to find a solution. But we also need to find a solution to the causes. Surely, the best way would be to have a proper history and then this centrifugation of the debt we would be saving, and we would also alleviate other financing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to position himself on the motion, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.26.0	Thank you very much, President. To intervene from the escó. We, in the first place, would like to thank the present young man, much needed at the present time, and to thank the rigour of the same young man. Finally, we were surprised by the degree of rigour in Accord 1, which says that the governments of the past two years have made social details. Two years ago it was November 5, 2010, and we had the tripartite government in place, and therefore we would like to vote positively on the first point, in which, obviously, what we are characterizing was that from the tripartite to the present there were social details, and therefore we would also vote with this recognition of the government that we had at that time. That said, too, why would we practically vote that yes to all the agreements of the present motion for a resolution? In the first place, because it gives us an answer to the waiting lists, and this is a need for the country's joint. Second place, too, because it wants to generate – in fact, it should generate – subjective rights. The issue of tele-assistance is fundamental, beyond, obviously, the difficulties after determining how it develops or manages the question of tele-assistance, but it is another discussion, not the right subject. And, thirdly, the one we should never discuss and approve in this Parliament, which is that it pays for what it is granted. Certainly, yesterday the counselor was able to explain to us the different difficulties we had, but this should not be object of discussion in this House, but welcome that it is incorporated through a young man. Yes, we want to explain why we are abstaining two times. We will abstain from the point that refers to Mont-roig, not because we are against it, it seems good, but for the model. You already know that we are for a one hundred_per_cent public management model, and therefore we will not vote against the fact that it is complete that it was agreed, and, moreover, what it means is right, but obviously, how it incorporates, or is already agreed, a management model that is indirect, we abstain. And the second abstention we do in relation to the point that refers to eliminating the bureaucracy, the performance management. We are not against this, we want to recognize it, and we think that it is necessary to speed up the processing of services, but as it refers to practices in some autonomous communities that we do not know, so we apologize to the proposing Member, because we might have made the task of asking them which ones, but what we have is a generic, and therefore we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. And for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word now Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.28.0	Thank you, President. Also from the escó estant. I have to tell you that the truth is that I was surprised by a little bit of Mr. Moreno's motion, because he used to present consistent strong motions among them, and that he has a lot of sense all folded up, and, in change, this young man was touched by different themes almost in a way, which leads me to think that, surely, the object of the inquiry and of the later young man was not to speak so much of the problem in general of the great people, but rather to speak more quickly of Mont-roig du Camp, which he also does, right? We have absolutely no problem with it. What is certain – and in this I think we can coincide, surely not all groups, but an important part of the groups in the chamber – is that the social policies of this government are like a palindrom. A palindrom says it runs backwards, doesn't it? If we move it from letters to numbers, it's capricious, huh? , capicua, a magnificent Catalan word that we have exported to the castle and recognized for the Spanish Royal Academy, right? And it means we're the first ones with things and we're the last ones in other things. And in this case, we are the last, for example, to recover the social expenditure that had existed prior to the crisis. The last community that has not yet managed to recover the pre-crisis social spending is Catalonia, and, surely, this has much to do with the fact that in the last six years that there has been economic recovery until 2019, unfortunately, 2020 can no longer be so, but until 2019, six years of economic recovery, in four there have been no assumptions of the Generality. But, moreover, there was no explicit political will on the part of the parties that support the Government, precisely from the same parties: Esquerra Republicana, first from outside the Government and then from between the Government, with responsibility not only for social policies, but also for economics, and therefore for assumptions. And if we're on top of things, we're also the first on the list with other things. For example, with waiting lists, and waiting lists to access dependency benefits, so they are the example that in social policies this government is capricious: to whom in the second five things and the first of the list in other. We'll give support to the whole young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a turn over to Congressman Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.30.0	Thank you, President. Quickly, to all the deputies and deputies. Mrs. Valencia, we have not admitted your question because what they are asking was already done, that is, the agreement between the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain for what it does to dependence was taken at the last interterritorial council. Also for what he does to finance, also for what he does to the recovery of basic finance from dependence. You know – I say this because of the financial concerns – that the year you see, if the assumptions arise, and, therefore, here at all questions, 600_million euros more for dependency and 65_percent more for Catalonia than there was in 2017, and you already have 3,200_million euros. So, let's see if we can get a little out of the way to solve these kinds of problems. Dependency level; we made a: 750.000_euros for three regions, the year passed. No, it's not that – it's not that – what we ask; we ask for all of Catalonia. Third. Mont-roig du Camp. Yeah, they actually have a problem. Since 2010 they have a day center. Five years ago they called the Generalitat de Catalunya to see if they'd arranged the seats. They don't make a case. Yeah, we're carrying it here. If you are so concerned about the issue of Mont-roig du Camp, your parliamentary groups could also have brought this issue here to Parliament ; we have done so because we are concerned about the situation of Mont-roig and the rest of the assemblies that they signed with the Government of Catalonia the inn on the march of the day centres, and that in two years they have seen how these places have not been laid down nor have they been renegotiated by the Government of the Generality. And he exemplifies very well what his policy is from the residential point of view. I'm done. Mr. Forné, actually, we don't agree, on the political side, and that's quiet, somehow, isn't it? , but we can always agree – in the tranquillity I suppose that the two, right? But what I ask of you, gentlemen of the Government and Members of the parliamentary groups who give you recollection, is to remember something: one, the residences are the exclusive competence of the Generality of Catalonia. And what you demand is that you are responsible for your skills. We'll do it too, but we'll try to solve these problems from the state government too, but the responsibility for the management is yours, because that's what the city and city team wanted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.31.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.32.0	...of Catalunya. They're doing the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, as is the rest, they know that we will vote at the end of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the tourism model]] [[302-00250/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the tourism model, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.34.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, it's not the councilman, but we greet him from here too. I believe that the situation of tourism is already widely known and, therefore, I don't think you've ever heard of making a very accurate diagnosis. But we are talking, basically, about a sector that is 12_percent of our gross domestic product, which gives jobs to between 700,000 and 900,000 workers in our country, and which has suffered a daltabaix, a result of the health situation we live in, obviously. International tourism fell by 80_per_cent this year; international tourism expenditure, by 84_per_cent, and tourism in the rest of the State dropped by 91_per_cent. Therefore, we are talking about sectors that will lose the season of Holy Week, that will lose the season of estiu, and that now, that will be in low season, will continue to lose tourist season, fruit of the health situation that we live. And a sector that we could say is too big to fail, too big to fall, but also too big to be rescued, directly, by public administrations. Head of public administration can assume the 12_percent of its gross domestic product. And, therefore, intervention must be effective and based on a curious diagnosis of the situation in which we live. Not all the touristic fabric has suffered the same way. Inland tourism has suffered less than coastal and city tourism. And, in coastal tourism, the smaller cities dependent on international tourism have suffered less or have resisted this better situation than the rest. So, what do we propose? An intervention at two levels. In the short term, we need a shoal to further reduce structural costs, because if anyone has to close the blind, they can lock it to zero, or very close to zero. We've got the brave measure of the ERTOS, we've got the measure of the ERTOS, but we think this situation is getting bigger. The International Air Transport Association (IATA), which until 2024 will not recover air transport figures, has already said. Therefore, we go for a long time in international tourism. We still think that we need to reduce structural costs, for example, of energy sub-administrations. Today, Endesa was announcing millionaire benefits, and I think it's a shame that I could do it without any moratoriums on sub-administration payments. Helps with the liquidity. I think we've been a little ambitious. We thought of a first level of help based on which is lost Holy Week, but the summer is recovered. And it's obviously not like that. And we need to rethink, on the rise, the direct aids and liquidity to the sector. A return guarantee plan. We have today between 700,000 and 900,000 workers in the tourism sector who have already scrapped a daltabaix in their yields, who are either receiving the twilight or receiving the benefit of self-employed persons for ceasing activity. And, therefore, we'll have a dalta down to the country's returns. And we believe that we need to start thinking about complementary aids, to complement, with a minimum, an interprofessional minimum wage. And then, plans for training and job conversion. We are aware that the tourism sector, in short and in the medium term, will not be what it has been in our country. And we need to be sure that the workers in the tourism sector can embrace plans for training and retraining jobs. And we believe that it is important that we remain ambitious too at the time of thinking about these measures. And by the way, what do we propose? To open a table of the dialect and to open a national pact for tourism. Because we believe that this sector will, yes or yes, turn to the end. The Covid crisis is conjunctural, it will last, but it is conjunctural. But we also have a structural crisis, which is the climate emergency we are experiencing, which will certainly rearrange, yes or yes, this sector. And we want it to be done through a national pact because we believe that the foundations for conversion and aid for conversion must count, yes or yes, with the social sectors involved: with the representatives of the workers, with the sector's leaders and with tourism companies; in order to advance on axes that we have all clear and defined. That there must be a bet for sustainable tourism, that the tourist offer must be decentralised – we are a tourist country on the high mountain, inland, on the coast. We must be able to revitalize our tourist offer and decentralize it, to improve the working conditions of the tourism sector and to help the peppers to digitise themselves and to form part, also, of this new world 4.0 that emerges. And lastly, we need to sort out the tourist sector. There are obviously messy sectors. Working conditions on public ski slopes are not worthy and not decent. And we believe that public administration must be exemplary. And we also have – and I'm finished with this – the emergence of platform economies, such as free tours, that are deregulating and disrupting the sector; and I can intervene, too, in these aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.36.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, good morning, we agree on most of the intervention made by Mr Ferro, and we also agree on this work at three levels. On the one hand, some measures of shock, necessary. On the other hand, a more mid-term visit. And, finally, it also needs to resolve, to sort out the sector. He said... well, it's a lot of bad luck, but we agree. Precisely because of this, two of our papers, which are additional, nine, are on this line. From the point of view of measures of the shoc plan, there is a theme that talks about the need for hard to term help and incentives to the youth hostel network. This is an extensive network to the territory, of great quality, and which do not depend on Tourism, according to Youth. And if I am allowed to express it: One for the other, the house without barrier. And, therefore, this is a sector that has suffered a lot in the summer, and that we think should be taken into account. And from the point of view of this look closer to the end, the theme number 4, the one that proposes or asks is the realization of a study of the registered occupation to the different tourist destinations last season to, from here, have a clearer information to focus, therefore, the policies more than the end. And Mr. Ferro said it, and I also said it the previous Ple: it is true that we can say that the season has been lost, that there are sectors that have suffered a lot. We could also say that there are sectors that have suffered less. But in any case, everyone has suffered and it is true that the tourism of the interior, therefore, did not behave as the tourism of the coast. And from coastal tourism, it's not the same as my municipality, like the Scale, so, let's just say, more of the proximity tourism, huh? , of the tourism with automóbil, than not the municipalities that depend more than another type of tourism, more linked to the "touroperadors or linked to the great agencies of travel and, therefore, to the tourism air, right? And, therefore, we thank Mr. Iron for having accepted these two points, I repeat, which are additional, and which seem to us to be two very interesting points. And for what it does, strictly, let's say, to the content of the motion, we will vote in favour and, therefore, there is no more, in saying, if I have not miscounted, of the twenty points and subpoints that counted the motion that Catalonia has presented in Comú Pode, and we will vote against three, that I would like to explain briefly. In the first place, we will vote against point 2, letter to. Not for the philosophy it encompasses, which frames its text. And, therefore, the law, because it is clear: "To stimulate the reactivation and conversion of the tourism model to a model based on sustainability, social responsibility, quality, the relationship in the territory and which respects the environment – up to here, no problem in absolute, totally agreeable; but our aim was to suppress what he sees next, which is: –«... without residential increments or unsustainable infrastructure. Clari, why? Because we're talking about two indeterminate subjects. What do you mean, "no residential increments? That from the approval of this young man, the municipalities, the assemblies will not be able to give new urban licences? It means that they will not be able to complete those urban spaces that are urbanized, but that, to say the least, it is necessary to finish them to retrace, to weave the urban plot, connectivity, etcetera, right? Another thing is that we're talking about if we're going to get partial plans, that's to say, put it on the market... that this, with this, I think we could come to terms with each other, huh? Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this. As well as the concept of 'unsustainable infrastructure'. I'm setting an example. For Mr. Ferro, probably the C-32 is an unsustainable infrastructure, and, in change, for us it is a necessary infrastructure, isn't it? That is why we are not voting in favour, I repeat, of these two concepts. And, then, the other two items make reference, a little, to the same concept, which is that we believe that in the young person is barge, in a wrong way, two concepts that are different. One thing is shared lars and another question is the ‘lives of tourists, isn't it? And, therefore, in this sense, our position is that, in fact, those buildings, those "lives which have the license of tourist activity, if they go to the LAU, the Law of urban leases, the loss, this license. And that, anyway, it's for a year and not 365 days of the year. We'd agree with that, but Mr. Ferro didn't accept these papers to need a little more of that. And so, how we think it's very important, because, I repeat, they're two absolutely different concepts, sharing and habitating of touristic uses...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.37.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.38.0	...for that, at these three points we will vote against it. Many thanks, deputies and deputies, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.40.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members and, by the way, Workers and Workers of Parliament, which I always say yesterday, in the intervention that I did late, I didn't say so, so you serve this grace, too, for my intervention yesterday. Well, the parliamentary group of the commons brings to us this proposal which, in the majority, will recover our recovery, so that there are some points where it will not be that way. For example, in what it refers to the habitats of tourist users, with the HUTs and in the barrier that it respects, also, the shared lars, eh? And, therefore, with this double scope of regulation that we believe does not really fit the needs that we need to cover, and it would not fit the objective that even we all consider that the same proposed group respects this regulation. It is also true that it has a vision, let's say, very centered to the city of Barcelona. And that, on the other hand, the needs that are to be covered, respect a general character regulation for different municipalities of our territory... that have needs in the touristic environment that are quite different. And, in fact, the deputy Bruguera also explained it, respecting his own municipality of the Scale. So we believe that the same municipalities can also have, in this sense, a proactivity. In fact, the mayor of Sitges, who was the one to bring this young man, but who finally couldn't be here with us today, and that's why it's up to me to make this intervention..., so the mayor of Sitges, the deputy of this Parliament too, the Aurora Carbonell, has taken action in this sense. And, therefore, it has limited the stride of touristic habitats in its municipality from the modification of the general plans. And, therefore, with a current 9_per_cent limitation. But, on the other hand, it has also increased all the inspection and subsequent sanction mechanisms. And in this sense, for example, today, too, there will be news that they are sanctioning tourist use habitats, HUTs, with imports of up to EUR 36,000, with a limitation of up to EUR 60,000, because they are illegal and because they do not comply with the regulations and, therefore, this line of inspection that also proactively, from the same municipalities..., and Sitges is an excellent example of this, since it also allows this limitation. And, therefore, we also want to give great value to this competence at the municipal level and to this competence and to the full deployment of these skills at the local level. And, therefore, also this good practice that is being done from the municipalities of Sitges, I repeat, with the mayorship of the company Aurora Carbonell. On the other hand, there are other questions to which we will support, but this government is already doing, as are the whole line of support and support. For example, the SOC has a support line, precisely, with 38,4_million euros for all people affected by the flood of tourist sector entrances, for the possible closure. And, therefore, this update, because we understand each other, of their professional accreditations. And, therefore, these 38,4_million euros articulated from the SOC so as to make this update and that they are not excluded from the job market. On the other hand, also from the same continuous formation, the Consortium for the Continuous Formation of Catalonia, which also has a qualified line of 24_million euros to give support to those people who are busy, but who must continue to maintain their line of professionalization and their line of work, therefore, also keep this update. Or also a process, a line of support also for digital transformation dedicated to micro-entrepreneurs or workers and self-employed workers, specifically in the field of tourism, hospitality, trade and culture. Therefore, we have here in this sense various support plans that have also been activated from the same government. And finally, respect the job inspection, there's a point that had been accepted. Finally, the acceptance of this theme was withdrawn, because it contained a point that was the one of the free tours. To emphasize that the inspection of work, as is the public service, therefore, is its obligation and is what it is doing. Therefore, all these standards or poor managements arise in the working conditions of workers and workers in the tourism field and, therefore, it is one of the main lines of action of the work inspection, and the proposing group also knows perfectly well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Roquer has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.42.0	Thank you, President. He presents us with a young man who I think will generate consensus in this room, but I think he's lying down with some apriorism, you, in the world of tourism, huh? I'll try to explain it there. He's asking us for a smudge board. It is obvious that the tourism sector has had a bad season, so that with the differences of each destination, with the specific differences of each destination and of the customers of each destination, but in general, they leave the other day that international tourists had downloaded a 77_per_cent respect to the past year and that there were 14,000_million fewer entrances than the past year. We have talked about this on repeated occasions to the Commission of Enterprise. It is impossible for any government of the world, that the administration of the world can supply these declines in demand, and less the Generality, that has its hands tied to what it does to taxation policy and to what it does to two things that you ask of us. You ask us to reduce mortgage bonds and reduce the costs of sub-administration. We, in the vote of the decree of state of alarm, asked Madrid, we asked at the Congress of Deputies that, in regulation, the costs of sub-administration are still to be increased. And you voted against Madrid. You voted against it, and then you ask us, that we are the Administration that we have no competition. With all this, they'll raise money in the next month. It seems to me that yesterday the councilwoman Budó announced 108_million in the next month of help, that they join the moratorium of the tax on stays in tourist establishments or the decree Illi, which you have also not spoken about, that it was possible to reduce to half the loguers of the activities that is not possible in term. We are very much in agreement with you on the need for training in the tourism sector. It is a sector of pay that is very much under the middle, and it is a sector that has to increase productivity, and it is a sector that should have taken advantage of the situation of ERTO to further train its workers and thus improve the competitiveness and the very value of the workers. You ask us to work with a post-Covid strategy, and we quite agree with what you ask us to work with the post-Covid strategy. What we disagree with is the instrument, which you speak to us about a national pact for tourism and we say it: the strategic tourism platform of Catalonia allows it, and the tourism marketing platform of Catalonia allows us to implement these post-Covid measures, because, among other things, the reptes that are presented for the year 2022..., many have to see what you demand to be the tourist model, such as deseasonalization. The Pla stratègique de turisme de Catalunya predicts that the 37_per_cent..., has come as opposed to the 2022 37_per_cent of the visitors we have out of season, or that the 10_per_cent of the states are displaced from the coast, which go in the same direction as you ask. Increase the spending of tourists, instead of increasing the number of tourists, or arrive, say the strategic plan, intelligently, until 21_million foreign tourists. And where we don't agree so much with you, it's with the treatment you give to tourist habitat claims. You ask that you can eliminate the perpetuity. This was regulated for a Spanish law as well, and you can do the planning for each municipality. Therefore, Catalonia's tourism regulation loses competition, here, you don't have the opportunity to regulate it, that's what. And we don't agree with what you tell us about shared homes. You say that any fish, any habitation of Catalonia, by putting the figure of the shared islands, can become a touristic establishment, and that this has to stop speculation. Catalonia's tourism policy says that the "shares" must be the main habitat and effective residence of the holder. And it also says, the tourism regulation, that the owner must reside in the habitation while the state lasts. We seem to have enough restrictions as it is not possible to speculate with habitats as a result of which they may become shared. We share your concern with the sector. We agree to support it, to improve competitiveness, to improve the training of workers and their working conditions, which must be improved in the field of tourism. We do not think that the shared habitations of tourism are the faults of the country's habitating problems. We shall vote in favour of the two items which you have accepted from the Socialist Party. And with the European foundations, with the experience that we have acquired with Covid, we hope that the sector will emerge from all this atzucac better than it had entered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to fix the position on the motion, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, deputy Laura Vílchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.44.0	Thank you, President. That today's back to talking about tourism in this room is good news. Everyone is aware of the terrible situation in the sector, a sector with a level of affectation due to the consequences of the pandemic absolutely dramatic today. Moreover, and I want to put it today in value, I feel a sector that represents 12_percent of GDP and 14_percent of the occupation in Catalonia, has since the first day at the disposal of the citizenry and the general interest when we need them the most. We all know that the crisis in the tourism sector is a global crisis, but according to the report prepared for the German tour operator Dertour, Barcelona is one of the most devalued cities of seventy-five to be analysed worldwide, occupying the place, and captivating cities like Amsterdam or San Francisco. As we say We can in this motion – the party that governs Barcelona and the Government of Spain – it is true that a change of tourist model is necessary. In these moments, especially, it is necessary. But if we really can believe what you're writing in this young man, he should be able to listen and let go of ideological sectarianisms so that he can truly work for this sector with technical criteria. If you don't listen, if you don't listen, if you don't listen, if you don't listen, and if you don't listen, and if you don't, you don't have any skills, if you don't get to the Congress of Deputies, that's the place where you can work, you can't listen, and if you don't, you can prove that you don't understand, if you untie the private business of the public. And that happens, I insist, because you don't listen. I explain why I'm saying that. Many of the points of this motion were included in the tourism sector's reactivation plan and the hostel Ciutadans presented to the Congress of Deputies in April. Do you know what you voted for? They voted against it. They voted against protecting workers against the loss of entry and their places of work; they voted against measures to protect consumers; against measures such as the flat rate of EUR 60 for self-employed persons so that they can reopen their negotiations; against strengthening lines of state support to ensure the necessary liquidity; against taking measures to ensure health security in transport stations; against training for workers in the sector or tourism promotion; against ensuring secure relocations coordinated with Europe; against – attention, Mr. Ferro – giving support to the autonomous communities to establish – point 1 of their motion – shock plans for the tourism sector. So, Mr. Iron, what are we playing at? In generic terms, therefore, we agree with many points of this motion because we have a shared responsibility to require the Government of the Generality to appropriate the resources needed to save lives and all possible work places. But that is why it must be coherent, Mr. Ferro, it must be coherent and not act here as opposition, unlike your representatives to the Government of Spain. As I said, we will vote in favour of most points, in others not. Pla de coc, yes, but they have to guarantee it with state measures. Pla d'ajuts, moratoria, yes, but we ask, for example, the Government of the Generalitat, that it is no longer to ask for a credit to the ICF that comes to the private bank. Work training plans, yes, but in the form of help, also, but requiring the SOC to execute, please, its functions. To guarantee and protect the rights of workers and workers, of course, but always, no, as my partner Javier Rivas says, depending on the altitude, which is what you concretely here in your seat with the ski resorts. There are many things that can be done, Mr Ferro, as, to begin with, the twenty measures that we presented to the Congress of Deputies in a reactivation plan for the sector. But it has to be done there too where your representation is. Having the same speech in all institutions and seeking consensus with the sector, which, in short, should be the leitmotif of our function, now more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word now the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.46.0	Good morning, all of you. When we think of the crisis that is sweeping tourism, and that is obvious, Catalonia has lost, or the tourism sector, has stopped charging more than 21,000_million euros as a result of the tourism crisis. When I think about this, I think, first of all, about all the workers who today are patenting this crisis. I don't think of big companies or big hotel companies, which keep their benefits today; I don't think of them. We start from a strategic principle that is different from the setting up of the commons, not now, in this movement, but strategically from its public policies for which it does tourism. What we are planting is a strategy of tourism decline and we consider that the current health situation opens the door to truly rethinking what it means to have honest populations with an economic and, therefore, material and, therefore, vital dependence on tourism. Dotze_per_cent of GDP means that, I insist, there are genuine populations that today the workers and workers of tourism, the "kellys, the camels, the workers who make possible the whole of a giant tourist universe, are in a situation no longer of a turd or of a situation of renders that diminish, but in a situation of social exclusion when leaving the poor. Therefore, we believe that the idea of sustainable tourism denies a major one, which is – and when I hear them talking, I think: "Ostres, don't you see it? – tourism will not return to the short term of what it had been, absolutely nothing of what it had been. The changes that Covid demands in the patterns of mobility, in the patterns of consumption, in the patterns of work really want a brutal conversion, and we need to stay intent and action on this issue. I'm done. We will vote in favour of some of the points. The first point, thinking of the workers, we will not vote for it, because it does not make a difference between the types of companies we help. We don't want to give help to those businesses. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – that they continue to introduce what they do not have criteria of cure to their correct or minimum workers. So, let's think of a Post-Tourist Catalonia. This is the situation that will actually take thousands of workers from the Catalan coast, especially from the precarious and poor situation in which they see themselves working for the public policies that have come to an end. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.48.0	Yes, thank you very much. Well, the truth is, we're repeatedly defending that a young man should have more modest goals, that is, you're now the government changing a series of things that so much as you can change them or you have the intention to do it. These motions that want to change the world or that want to change the product model..., go, in this case, in some points, there are others that we support because they are quite reasonable. Who do you think are reasonable? So those that affect day-to-day issues that are perfectly measurable and that would give a harvest message to the important sector. In this sense, point number 1 is practically impeccable, because it speaks of providers, sub-administrations, liquidity, financing. The same way points 4, 5, 6, when it comes to labor rights, when it comes to the albergh network or occupation analysis, so we seem reasonable, and we will also support it. We can't give support to points 2 and 3. In the case of the 2, which, in the end, we will abstain from..., basically, because the music of the point, if I hear the expression, I wouldn't be able to say that it's touringfòbica, because it would be unfair, it would be too much, but after a message of mistrust when it comes to "sustainable tourism as if we had to change the sensible model because it was, or as if the sector didn't have any kind of vocation to be sustainable; they are the first interested in being so. I mean, we don't like the writing and the intention behind it. And then, we'll vote against point 3, basically, because we understand that your focus on the tourist apartments is profoundly wrong. But there is also a concrete point, the 3c, which speaks of "increasing control, sanction, legal instruments, which..., in short, first, that the law already contemplates them, but, second, of which it is treatable, in any case, is that it is complicated. I'm saying this because it seems to me very good that I have, so, this will of compliments of the law, I would also like that in the case of illegal occupation, this sensitivity to the language too – it's just the opposite of what they're doing, isn't it? So, to sum up, right? There are points of the motion that affect the day-to-day that we seem correct and there are others that pose a problem, and it is that for you the shoc plan is not a shoc plan to give support, but to make a few threats to the totality of the sector, which we cannot share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, Mr Lucas Ferro has a final turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.50.0	Thank you very much, President. To gather two discussions that we have had at the talks. Whether or not we need a national tourism pact, we understand that the Generality has its strategic and its marketing plan, but we also understand that they have radically changed the conditions of the tourism sector, and that getting out of this situation requires a compromise, which is to do so by mediating the concertation with the sector and not pulling thousands without listening to the sector. We know that there will be foundations for reconstruction, we know that there will be foundations for conversion, and this, necessarily, we want it to pass through the compromise that governments that govern 2021 will run a space for social concertation. And, second of all, there's been an obvious discussion with the tourist apartments. We understand that the figure of shared home is, in the background, two things: the regulation of an existing reality – there are people who share their home, live at home and share it – but also the regulation of a practice that we believe is harmful to the society's joint, that is, that any house can be a 365 day tourist apartment in the year while the person who lives at home. And we understand that at this moment, and in this place also the PSC companies, is a time to rethink priorities in housing. It is being discussed today itself to stop the denunciations while the health emergency situation lasts. The same one that has been discussed in the Catalonian Parliament to the Government of the State on the regulation of the prices of loguers is also currently being discussed. We will also have to discuss housing priorities in this country. There is an excess of tourist flats, which obviously do not have an offer now, which should be able to move to residential use in a preferential way, because with rebuilding this priority there is also the right to housing in areas especially tense for the tourist offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the lack of company support in the management of the pandemic]] [[302-00254/12]] After the debate, we will proceed to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the lack of follow-up to the companies in the management of the pandemic, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.52.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, very good morning to you all. Today, from Ciutadans, we are presenting a motion to denounce the lack of support to the economic sectors, families, self-employed people and SMEs that are affected by the restrictive measures imposed, and that feel totally abandoned by a government that is unable to meet its responsibilities. In politics we must respect the principle of responsibility. A responsible government must accompany any decision that has a negative impact on citizenship, such as the support measures necessary to alleviate the damage it has caused. And a responsible government, if it makes the decision to close bars, restaurants, aesthetic centers, night entertainment, gyms or fairs, among others, limiting the freedom of enterprise, for responsibility must accompany that decision with measures of economic support to those affected by these limitations, so that their businesses can endure and the families that depend on them can survive, which is not happening. They all feel totally abandoned and on the verge of despair. Keep in mind that all self-employed people and SMEs forced to close have made an unusual effort to withstand the first wave and the first confinement, simply, with their savings, no longer have the resources to move forward. That is why many of them are at the door of having to close their business definitively, with the aggravating fact that they have been in debt and are forced to repay loans without making a single euro of cash. And even though they have made all the necessary investments, and are willing to make those that are necessary for their establishments to be as safe as possible and not transmitters of the virus, they have seen their illusions crumble before the closing decree. I was telling you yesterday: time in politics passes very slowly, and on the street, it flies. For the members of this government, fifteen days are nothing, they don't change their lives, and, above all, they don't change their income. But for an autonomous fifteen days is the difference between whether your family arrives at the end of the month or not. It's the difference between keeping the blind open or having to shut down permanently. And keep in mind, Members and Members, that they have fulfilled their part, and that it is the Administration that has not fulfilled its part. Focusing on the proposal we are putting forward, the first thing we are proposing is that this Parliament should explicitly recognise hospitality, catering and nightlife establishments as essential and particularly vulnerable sectors, and that they should therefore be subject to specific follow-up and should be accompanied economically. And they should not, above all, be criminalized for their activity, because their behavior, in the vast majority of cases, is responsible. But, of course, recognition is not enough. Recognition does not eat, and that is that families, self-employed people and SMEs suffering from the effects of restrictive measures need support. They need help, and they need it immediately. We therefore propose, from the beginning of the pandemic, that the Generalitat implement an aid plan for these sectors which includes at least two elements. One, the structural costs of the business. Businesses can't open, but they're forced to pay all the receipts they get at the end of the month. So, for them to survive, they need liquidity. And, secondly, the situation is so dramatic that many self-employed, many business owners no longer have the resources to reach the end of the month. We must therefore ensure that these families can survive. And one basic element: these aids must be immediate. Self-employed persons cannot take months to receive benefits or to see themselves subjected to excessive bureaucracy that complicates things to despair. We therefore urge you to automate the granting of grants and aid, so that processing times, management times are kept to a minimum, and therefore that the recovery is immediate. And we can't stay there. The Government of Spain cannot hide behind the autonomous community, it must also assume its principle of responsibility which it set out at the beginning of my intervention. Therefore, we urge you to coordinate with the Government of Spain, because without coordination this rescue plan would lose all efficiency and effectiveness. I ask you, in this framework of coordination with the Government of Spain, to follow the example of Citizens and ask for the support plan, as we are doing in Congress, with sufficient budget to accompany the sectors concerned. But we have to make things very clear. The only way our economy doesn't collapse is to get them to reopen all the facilities, ensuring health security. They can't make us choose between health and economics, because both are faces of the same coin. Do your utmost to control the pandemic and avoid making decisions that harm the Catalan economy. They are the ones who generate much of the employment, and that will not make up for the arrival of European funds, for the many expectations that you want to sell us. I therefore ask you to support the points in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the views, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Manuel Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.54.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all very concerned about this second wave of pandemic that our neighbours, our fellow citizens, are suffering. It is also a very hard wave, and it forces governments to take action in the health field to save lives, to save our compatriots. That is why it is important to strengthen the health sector with more human resources, with more people in primary care and in hospitals. While these health measures are being taken, different sectors of the economy are also being resented, forced to stop their activity. A forced – compulsory – stoppage by the Government, which affects sectors as strategic as tourism, such as hospitality, such as catering, such as nightlife, such as aesthetic centres, out-of-school centres, shops, such as transport – indirect sectors that are also affected, such as in the field of transport – taxi drivers... And, therefore, a major stoppage in our economy. We are faced with a triple crisis: a health crisis, directly, by the pandemic; an economic crisis, by the closure and unemployment of economic activity, and also a social crisis, by the loss of jobs. The Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia cannot close companies without accompanying, without helping those companies to maintain their activity afterwards, so that those jobs are not lost. We can't send the self-employed home without financial resources. Health measures, therefore, yes, but measures to save businesses, self-employed people and jobs, too. That is why we are convinced from the People's Party that much can be done from the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia and is not being done. While the Government remains questioned when some advisors seem to dictate the work to it from outside the executive, there are others that we think must work for all Catalans, that must work both in the health and in the economic and social fields. That is why we are proposing a tax plan, a plan for aid to businesses, to self-employed people; in essence, to all Catalan workers. That is why we propose to approve for this year 2020, and also for the year 2021, a moratorium, a moratorium on the taxes and taxes of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which impose especially on those motor sectors of the economy, to sectors such as tourism, such as trade, such as restoration, such as hotel industry in our territory; to postpone without delay the payment of some outstanding self-liquidations of taxes and fees; to create tax subsidies for the new contracts and investments made by the productive fabric of our community; to promote, by the hand of the municipalities, the suspension of certain payments of taxes and taxes that also affect our economy; and to extend, at least in the year and a half, the periods of lack of aid in the lines of the Institut Català de Finances, and also to urge the Government of Spain to do the same with the credits ICO. In short, avoid the closure of companies, self-employed, layoffs, avoid layoffs. And that is why we ask the Government – now absent from this session – to do more to worry about Catalans. We ask the Government that less « Catalan NASA and more Catalan company, is what we ask the Government. That those 18_million_euros that they want to spend is, that will serve for little, that will serve to place the friends, that they are destined in aid to the companies, the self-employed, that the jobs so important for our autonomous community are saved. For that 18_million_euros will be necessary and useful. To mount the « Catalan NASA, with 18_million_euros, you don't even have to buy the screws, as our spokesman, Alejandro Fernández, reminded you yesterday. So let's save lives, save Catalonia's economy and work together to be stronger against the pandemic and help those affected right now – businesses, the self-employed and many and many Catalans who lose their jobs and who don't know how they can get to the end of the month. It is therefore important that we support this proposal, that we also support these amendments tabled by the People's Party, because we believe that this is the only way to fight decisively and that we can help our neighbours, our companies, that commercial fabric that is so much resenting those measures of the Government that do not arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, he has, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians Republicà, the words of Mr Alfons Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.56.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. The Covid has, indeed, a strong impact not only on the lives of thousands of people, but also on the global economy. An unequal impact following the severe pandemic, as well as the productive structure in the composition of the labour market, in the different deployment of teletreball or in the productive specialization; they are relevant elements. And therefore, it is also important to determine the weight of those activities that are directly affected by the confinement, as they were pointed out – the hostel, the night oci, transport, tourism, etc. – that in the euro area have a determined weight of the 9_per_cent round, but in the Spanish State they represent a 13_per_cent. It is time for uncertainty, uncertainty in the evolution of the pandemic, but also uncertainty in corrective measures. And not so much for what it does to its natural, because this debate already seems to be overtaken, until the entire International Monetary Fund moves away from what it used to have and advocates measures of keynesia, expansive policies, public investment, more fiscal pressure to make high, etc. And that's why proper company support is important in this context. And, in this sense, the Catalan Government has established aid to the affected sectors and has done so, moreover, immediately. On October 15th, the holding of bars, restaurants and other establishments was ordered, and on October 27th, the Consorci de Comerç, Artesania and Moda opened the call for the granting of subsidies in the area of these restoration activities, centres of aesthetics and beauty affected by Covid for an import of 40_million euros. It also opened an extraordinary line of downstreams to cover liquidity needs or lowered to 50_per_cent the logger of commercial premises that had the affected activity. Meanwhile, the Department of Labour, in addition to those ordinary measures, makes extraordinary programs such as, for example, helping with autonomies, basic sub-administration benefits or an extraordinary line of the Work and Training program. The increase of these two tenths that allowed the Government to stretch the deficit allowed to make a bundle of the 300_millions additional round to help these economic sectors, among which was an additional 50_millions line for restoration and hospitality, which we would add to the 40_millions that they have commented. And just this week, before yesterday, on Tuesday, the government approved new measures, such as the upgrading of the IRPF's autonomic tram or helping self-employed workers up to two thousand euros, to which we could add more actions, such as the Employment Improvement Program or the Industrial Reactivation Credits, the new tourist tax update, etc. Therefore, we can see that an important effort is being made in the follow-up to the companies affected, and that much of the requests made to the motion are complimented. As an example, they ask for a specific training plan for the hospitality sector, restoration, and here it goes to say that the Department of Work has already contracted a program for digital transformation projects and business models. Or the push for online training courses for these sectors is called for, and here there is a powerful fan in the offering formation of priority areas, which, traditionally, would be around 15_per_cent in traditional format, and now online is 80_per_cent. And finally, let us reiterate our confidence in the government and the measures taken, and more so if we take into account that we only receive 5_percent of the taxes that are met by Catalonia..., we will give ourselves an idea of the effort that this represents, and that contrasts, and very much, with the fact that the Spanish government has not yet taken measures to help these sectors or not to collect the generality's claims to pay VAT, tax on companies, contributions, etc. We therefore support a large part of the measures proposed to us by the House, and, as Vice-President Aragonès explained yesterday, the Government has been working on it for some time now, with a careful, close, swift look, aware of the situation, while, unfortunately, the Government of the State is neither in nor is expecting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers, now has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mrs Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.58.0	Thank you very much. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Good morning to Counselor Tremosa, who follows us from home to the quarantine that is being made. Certainly, the pandemic, and it has been discussed, affects sectors unequally, and therefore, this also translated unequally into territories and professional profiles. And, certainly, the one who has to make a responsible government, like at least, is three things. Sanitary tools, to avoid that we only have restrictions of expansion, locks or restrictions in mobility as only measures to control the virus. Predictability in economic and social agents about restrictions, which are based on transparent objectives, with transparent, objective indicators, which everyone knows, and, in this sense, the Department of Culture works there, agrees with the sector; the Department of Enterprise is also doing so. And, therefore, to place the health authorities that have already adopted these criteria, and that the measures that we are seeing and that the data that we are seeing of better, therefore, that quickly can be moved with a progressive opening. And third, what the government has to do is take steps to deal with the effects, and that these restrictions are not translated into permanent lockouts of business and job losses. But if the affectation in the sectors is unequal, it is only necessary to look back from Europe to see that the reactions of the governments are also unequal, and it is only necessary to look, in order to embarrass us - once more, the measures taken by the Spanish Government, and, later on, how to promote animal torture, disguised as cultural measures. There are a lot of things that are acceptable to Mr Cano today because he is asked what you are doing, the Government of the Generality, a lot of things that are absolutely necessary, and now Congressman Montserrat has not made a quick respite, so I will not be there at all. The additional 40_millions of aid over 20 in the form of loans from the first sectors affected, but above all, the mobilisation of these more than 300_millions for cultural, leisure and sports entities; again, for restoration, aesthetics, the night sky, but also measures for sectors affected indirectly, very indirectly, such as tourism, but also the same industry. The same industry that Members of Parliament like that of the PP seem to be grateful that measures are being taken in this sense to improve the productivity and added value of entrepreneurship and the Catalan industry. Also highlight a historical measure that was the reduction of commercial loggers up to 50_per_cent for those who were forced to close. Moreover, a very well-worked measure that avoids judicialization and resolves within the terms of this conflict in contracts. A measure that our parliamentary group in Madrid went hard to Congress and that "the most progressive government in history decided that it was not important to protect peppers, autonomes and macropimes. It also helps the autonomous, as has been mentioned, which clearly contrasts with the decision of the Spanish Government to continue to push the quotas to be shared by the autonomous. It widened, which was one of the themes that was also asked, the schedule of service at home. Diffusion campaigns have taken place, both in trade, crafts, etc.; training plans and digital transformations, both from what is the fashion sector, with 080, as the crafts; transformation in the sector. Let us also subsidize for us business models, which mainly do that they can adapt to the new reality, but which is also the day of trends and, therefore, of the evolution of their own sector, which was already passing. Therefore, there are many positive things in this young man. What surprises us is that this requirement that you exhibit here for the Government of Catalonia, which seems very good to us to exhibit it, then lacks coherence when this is about transferring it to the Spanish Government. What when it is only said is that it is a coordinator, as if the Government of Catalonia has a massive position of power before the re-entering government of socialists and commons. It seems like a little bit of a miop to us, and we are surprised, for example, that when our parliamentary group in Madrid brought a lot of messages in favour of the affected economic sectors linked to the alarm decree, you voted against it. And they voted against extending the ERTOS, and they voted against making the return of ICOs more flexible, and they voted against suspending the tax payments for self-employed and for peppers that were affected by transfers, and they voted against reducing VAT for the most affected sectors. I do not know what that means with the'responsible government'. And finally, for the socialists and the commons: you passed an alarm decree that did not incorporate any accompanying measure for economic sectors or vulnerable families, either. They've abandoned autonomes, peppers, micro-enterprises when they need it the most. Socialists and the commons, who have certainly found resources to give more money to soldiers, bullfighters and a corrupt monarchy; this is their government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.60.0	Thank you, President. I had prepared an intervention, but listening to you, one must change. I do not know if we live in a reality parallel, frankly, to the deputies of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left. Listen, the first ones who voted against an alarm state were you a few months ago; now they've asked for it: they've got the alarm state. They are the first to demand resources from the State: €16,000_million in a Covid fund, 3,225 that have arrived in Spain. They called for flexibility of the deficit target: they have flexibility of the deficit target. The other day they changed the presupposition: 420_million euros more. The year you see, the target of the deficit modified to '1,1 plus a fund of 13,400_million euros, plus 18,800 that will come from the European funds. Listen, there are resources at these times in the Generality, and there will be. Here the question is what do you do with these resources coming from the State: where are you? Why have these EUR 420 million that were modified in the budget two weeks ago not dedicated exclusively to economic sectors? Why didn't they do it? – 420_millions. Well, come on, let's go back to the 72 that you had agreed with, very well with the commons. So, escort, there's 350 left. Where are they? Because they don't dedicate them... it's that they don't want to dedicate them... it's that in the end one thinks they've decided, then, that there will be some activities that will die. And that's it. Because, listen, 40_million euros is the only call on hold that came out for bars, restaurants and aesthetic centers. We haven't seen 50 yet. We haven't seen any of the entities of high school, the entities that extracurricular, sports entities do... it's that we haven't seen it yet, this one. It's just that they're not there. It's what you promise, but they're not there yet. And Mr. Cano said very well that it's true that we're going to have to speed up a little. In fact, the first call to bars, restaurants, aesthetic centers went very fast. I don't know why they didn't go so fast. I don't understand. It's that you do a good thing, but after so many bad things there is no way to collect your decisions; yes health care measures, which we have always told you to collect, because, obviously, the situation is very complicated, but not the measures that accompany the economic fabric and how they make the decisions, that this would be another topic. Therefore, resources, to the Generality, are not coming. It is your responsibility to compensate the sectors you have decided to close. Listen, it's just that the state's been through a lot. It is you who say: "recentralisation. Listen, you've sent 16,000_million funds to the autonomous communities to manage them in the way they see fit. What we don't know is what they're spending them on, because the spending detail we have; big figures: 800_million euros in salvation. No, escort, the detail. Because they're missing trackers, because they don't operate CAPs, because they're missing meths, because they're missing nurses, because we still don't have the tablets connected to the schools. Listen, how are you spending the money coming from the state to make this decentralized pocket you're asking so much? So, escort, we don't know – we don't know. Let's see if they explain it to us some day and see if they dedicate a few – a few – hundreds of millions of euros to this economic fabric that is so much patented. That you only know how to ask and keep looking at the State. Well, then, if they want the state to fix their problems, why ask for resources? That they don't know how to manage? Maybe that's what's going on, isn't it? As we saw with the help of the Jew, they had to return to the State because they were unable to manage them well. Well, maybe that's the problem with this government, that it's a government that doesn't rule, that doesn't manage. And that's the big problem they have. Therefore, the motion of Ciutadans, therefore, has felt that it is present, its inquiry fifteen days ago. There are some things we'll pick up, some things we won't. First, because we believe that the responsibility, in the first place, is of the Generality, because the State is putting a lot of resources into the autonomous communities; therefore, it is them. And it's true that the state has been putting on the resource table. I want to put just a few figures: with ICO credits, that yesterday the Councillor Budó said "more liquidity, more liquidity for businesses, more credit. Miri, 190,000_million euros in September had been tied through ICO to businesses, had benefited more from Catalan businesses; that is, that the State is making. Should I do more? Surely, too, but it's happening, it's putting direct resources on the table for businesses, for autonomous communities. Listen, what we say is: the Generalitat, which must be co-responsible, which must take the appropriate measures. And then let's not forget that for the coming year there are many proposals, also linked to major entries and major transfers to communities, and that must also be taken into account. But in any case, we believe that the young lady, in everything that forces the Generality to do the work that is near her and is not doing, will have our recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.62.0	Thank you very much. It will allow me, the proposing group, to comment on some of the things that have been done. I agree with partner Alicia, not just because we share government, but because we share the same vision of what is happening in this country. Resources? They're probably scarce in all administrations, but that doesn't mean they're not getting resources. Perhaps the problem is that if you were just as quick to assist the economic sectors that are harmed by health restrictions as to assist your government's friends, such as Ferrovial, we would not have the liquidity and management problems we have in this country. And the problem of asking for competition is to do so from a completely incompetent government, which is the problem we have here in Catalonia. You asked for health skills: the tracking system ended up in the hands of Ferrovial – a company that illegally financed the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. Ask for help for the economic sectors: they have arrived; at the moment, we only have 40_million. Where's the rest? It's just that I think this government's problem is that he never cared about management. And it is true that there are conflicts and that there are situations that, sometimes, leave the management in accordance with the political interest in this country, but a government unable to manage a situation like this is a failed government, and a government that is dedicated to making the journey between the two government parties at every presuppositional discussion and every economic need that this country has is a failed government. And what we're asking is that they stop apologizing; if they have resources, if they don't have expense relief, if they're left without excuses. Stop apologizing and get to work from here to a new government in Catalonia. With respect to the motion presented by the companies and companies. We practically share the whole movement. There will be some time when we will vote against, but we like to place those elements in which we believe that we agree and that we therefore want to put in value that we agree. We are in a situation where this diatribe between salvation and economy, which has never been certain, is manifestly false. And we saw it during the descalade. I think we're all aware that it was probably faster than it was supposed to be to try to catch up with the tourist season. And it didn't work, because there's no dichotomy between economy and health. If we are not able to amplify the mechanisms of health prevention, tracking, primary care, etc., the economy is also affected. There are countries – the United States, the great example – that have done everything possible not to apply health restriction measures. And the failure in its gross domestic product and the economic crisis is also palmary, because there is no contradiction in this. We must be able to give healthcare response to the situation we are living in in order to reactivate the country economically. The dichotomy is not between economy and salvation, it is between beneficent – i« beneficent want to say hello, i.e. economy – and abandonment. And we believe that there are economic sectors that are clearly abandoned. Yesterday at the gates of this Parliament there was the spree of firaries. The PSC's company today reminded us of the hostel network. There are economic sectors in this country that are completely unmanageable and there are no other sectors that claim that the economic intervention there is manifestly insufficient. Today it is proposed to decree them, the sector of the oci and the inn and restoration, as essential. We want to put a manifest: we agree. Culture was decreed as an essential sector and the following week it closed it, with obvious structural infra-financing problems. Therefore, all sectors of the economy are essential. Another thing is that in the situation that we are living in some sectors of the economy, they are essential to the welfare of many citizens of this country, if they are to demand that they apply health-restriction measures. We will vote in favour, but we do not want to confuse essentials with essentials. There are sectors that are forced to stop and we must be able to take on and rescue them because they are essential for the welfare of our country and for the fabric of our country's produce. Second question that we agree with. We must begin to be more predictable and more agile in the decisions we make. We need to be able to say to economic actors: "Look, if the health situation up here, we will be forced to close these activities and these will be the help lines to cover them. And let them plan them too in this uncertainty scene. The economic sectors would have to be capons, in a scene that is uncertain for all, at least, to predict how much they will affect, the health situation, to the development of their own activity. And lastly, we have to start thinking seriously about the cost allocation of this situation in this country. We believe that the Public Administration is not taking on all the costs it should be taking on. But we believe that there are sectors of the economy, for example, those that provide services or goods for restoration, that are not closed, that are also taking on costs and that are never included in the measures. So let's start thinking about a fair distribution of the costs of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.64.0	Thank you very much. To intervene from the escó. We would like to recall what we are putting forward practically in the past month: we would never be against measures that mean public salvation, measures that may have little influence, such as the closure of bars and restaurants in connection with the collapse of the Covid-19 transmission, but they can assume, as a minimum, an intervention. Yes, these decisions cannot be improvised, and they must always, absolutely always, be accompanied by economic and social measures for these sectors. Because if we don't, we're done with them. And that is why, of course, we would vote in favour of almost all the agreements of this House. That's right, we want to explain about three questions that we won't be able to answer. The first, those who refer to coordination with the Spanish State. And not so much to get into whether we're in favor or against coordinating, but because it seems to us that it can turn into a waste of time. And we've seen it in this young man's debate, how the groups that support one and the other government have positioned themselves. Secondly, we will not support a concrete agreement which makes reference to the fact that if the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia declares that there has been a violation of the right to freedom of enterprise, then, mechanically, it must mean, on the part of the Catalan Administration, a quantification of damage and damage. If that happens, then big companies do the corresponding legal mechanism, which is another claim for damages and damages, and it will already be quantified by the courts. But we do not transfer this responsibility to him at that time at the conjunction of the Catalan Administration. And, in the third place, we will not vote in favour – we will abstain – of an affigitated bis that has been made in connection with the transaction of an issue of the People's Subgroup that makes reference – and is setting itself up in the last few months – to the moratoria of the tourist tax. There's more to it in this deal. But we will abstain from this, for a very simple matter, because we want the big hotels in our country that still have business and pay this tax – and that is what is being discussed – to pay for spending money on small hoteliers, small restaurants or small business activities that are so much needed. And for us, therefore, it is simply a question of redistribution. We can't donate a treatment the same as who's not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the word José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.66.0	Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to thank the groups that have tabled amendments and, moreover, have done so with the will to improve this motion. The amendments of the People's Party provided fiscal measures, which we share, and we have not been able to incorporate the amendment of Junts per Catalunya and the Republican Group because what they wanted to avoid is all that they seem to be coordinating with the Government of Spain. In the debate on this motion we have seen clearly that this is the main feature missing here. Some, who have issued a series of funds that have arrived in Catalonia; others, who do not mention these funds; others, who do not know what these funds have been spent on. Do they not understand that all of this harms self - control, families, and businesses? That is precisely the point of this motion, that there should be coordination between administrations. Because it is essential to give that response to the citizenry. If we don't coordinate, efficiency and effectiveness disappear. Therefore, we cannot accept that amendment, which calls for coordination. In the end, everything ends up blaming the Generalitat and the others blaming, as always, Madrid. Yesterday there was even a deputy who tore her clothes, because she didn't understand how Catalans like us didn't want to separate from Spain. And, ultimately, that has no benefit to the Catalans. We... The only thing that congresswoman had was that she had a circle of her own much smaller than ours. His circle ended on the TV3 map to present the time; ours, the rest, is 47_million Spaniards, all fellow citizens and all have the same rights and obligations. And separate you don't go out on account, and not coordinate you don't go out on account; it doesn't go out on account for the citizenry. The citizenry, at the moment, is waiting for us to agree and row together to support them, because the people who have the closed business are going their lives. They live, to these families; they have no income to take home. Fifteen days, I told you, for you and for me you can be slow; for them, they are life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'm telling you, this young man's vote is gonna be late, one time you're done with the interrogations. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the approach to rape in educational centres]] [[302-00251/12]] The new point of the order of the day is the Movement following the question to the Government about the approach of the rapes in the educational centers. It is presented, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.68.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. Well, two weeks ago we came to make the inquiry, because before we could see how he did, so he continued to find his altarpieces and ran out, and this time the young women of Castellar and Sabadell decided that there was no silence, that there was no peace around him; in short, they turned their lives, and around the rapes that they were suffering. And before cases of aggression, the government responds, therefore, with two measures, one of follow-up and the other of prevention. The accompanying, with a unit of support to victims of rape in the Department of Education, and the prevention, therefore, with sexual and emotional education mandatory with the Coeduca't program. To educate from childhood without gender stereotypes, without marked roles for social constructions, with empathy and recognition of privileges and structural discrimination is the first stone of a long way, which we already assume will be very long, but which, in the end, we must start to do not only with this look of compulsory sexual and affective education, but also with the prospect of a gender that would, in the end, be a feminist sexual and affective education. With the program Coeduca' and the educational centers will continue to feel spaces, as we said two weeks ago in the inquiry, where the rapes will arrive, that they will love the whole society, because they are not bottles. And, therefore, how there would continue to be all these rapes, so our moral obligation is to give them tools, and these tools must be used to combat abuse, to identify attacks and not to tolerate any interference in their private, sexual, emotional, and anti-dignity life. It is essential and we begin from now on with the compromise to ensure, in terms of three courses, that all educational centres incorporate sexual and emotional education, and not least, as I said, the gender perspective. Detection is important, but it's not less of a follow-up, because it's at this point, in the follow-up, where we can fall into re-victimization or repair. And, therefore, what do the centers do to intervene if there is a case of aggression. The first step, and hence the importance, as I said, of sexual and emotional education and the gender perspective is self-recognition as the victim and, therefore, self-repair begins when the victim is recognized as the victim of this abuse of power. And, therefore, in order to identify all these abuses and all these rapes, it is essential to have knowledge. The second is this follow-up, which is no longer so much of self-recognition, but of the knowledge of the center, is to know who is the person of reference to be able to put in knowledge of the centers these attacks. In this sense, the victim support unit intends to actively listen to victims and accompany them, regardless of whether or not the case has ended. And I think that's important and it's a morning to lay on the table, because no one can force a victim to bring his case to justice, neither in educational centres nor in other areas. Therefore, if this complaint is made, the department's commitment must be to accompany these victims to justice, but, ultimately, we cannot focus all this attention, active listening and follow-up on complaints, because there are so many victims who do not go through the judicial system and, therefore, what we do with all of them, who do not have this way of redress. Another important issue is that the support unit channels must be suitable for young people, because they can access them more equally. But we don't stay here, because the government of Catalonia does the part that surrounds him, prevention, detection, monitoring, but what happens when a teacher or staff of the Administration is object of investigation for a case, yet there is no sentence and the proceedings are widening? So they can't keep him suspiciously, because the terms run out, and that specifies a royal decree of the Basic State Law of the public employee, and therefore the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left in Madrid will enter this proposal, so that we can express this royal decree of the Basic State Law of the employee, because, if the terms widen and until there is no feeling, the Department of Education can preempt this aggressor from the classrooms, and so that they can act effectively, independently of the procedures. Therefore, if there is a case, an investigation, or a case of sexual abuse and sexual assault in an educational center must be able to deviate, regardless of the terms. Like I'm out of time, in the next turn I'll just answer the questions and the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.70.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselling, first of all, therefore, wanted to thank Congresswoman Jenn Díaz for presenting this motion on the approach of rapes to the educational centres, which will be added to other motions than in the last few years, unfortunately, and often as a result of the knowledge of other cases of misappropriation or abuse or different types of rapes of minors produced in educational centres, so we have approved. Facts that many times are known very late, too late, many years after it happened, when victims feel secure enough to make the complaint. And from here, therefore, our most absolute condemnation, repulses, to all the attacks at educational centers, and, obviously, support for victims, their families and the conjunction of the educational community. Well, in the last few weeks we knew the case, as explained, of a Castellar del Vallès institute where a physical education teacher would have assigned various pupils and pupils who, moreover, then denounced the educational centre of the accomplices of this assignment for having kept this teacher in exercise and, therefore, contacted minors until that time. Hard facts about which department, then, will have to give explanations. But that's why it seems important to us, and that's why we've incorporated it as a point of addition, insisting on the need for the government to vet for a strict compliment of the prevention protocol, detection and intervention before male violence and before settlement, because, among others, therefore, it forces the directions of the centers to communicate any knowledge, suspended from a situation of violence on the part of any member of the educational community under inspection – therefore, to the department – from a first moment. And this, together with other measures, as proposed in this motion, is essential to prevent violent acts from being guarded – if the expression is allowed – for years and years to avoid harming the image or prestige of a centre, or for other questions, thus jeopardizing the repetition of these violent episodes with other minor students. And, in fact, in most cases not even the families that form part of this center, so they end up getting acquainted with these situations of violence when, in change, so they have a very important role in prevention and detection as well. But with this philosophy, that the communication and that the value of a suspended or violent fact must be produced as before in order to be able to intervene in time and take the necessary precautionary measures to protect victims, it is important that society understand that we do not talk about unfortunate comments, games, jokes, behaviors that have spent all their lives, but it is understood that we talk about heavy crimes, feathers, despite that, as it points out, for example, Save the Children, a 70_per_cent never finish judgment. So, in order to focus on the importance of preserving the educational centres of any type of violence and, above all, of protecting the student – children and young people – we have also proposed a point of addition to urge the Government to act in front of the justice before the cases of what is known as violence that is committed in educational centres. Zero tolerance. Presumably aggressors must know that they have the government and society in front of them. Well, let's focus on prevention; this goes on to work on coeducation, gender equality. And we obviously share the proposal, therefore, to introduce sexual and affective education into all the educational stages of a gender perspective. But we are surprised, therefore, that the Government has not yet taken it forward, when a year ago it announced it, above all, because it is the choices that have a great influence on the social and cultural changes necessary for the eradication of male violence. But in any case, therefore, we urge them to implement the proposal, which will also soon have the legal umbrella of the new state education law, LOMLOE. And, on the other hand, as I said before, therefore, I need to introduce legislative amendments to strengthen this protection of alumni and the preservation of schools and rape institutes. As the deputy author of the motion explained, it is a matter of professional convicts who have been sentenced for sexual abuse, so they cannot return the sentence to the educational centres for a long time. Or, for example, to modify the EBEP in order to impose a precautionary measure, such as a suspension of duties, until the final judicial resolution in proceedings involving offences against freedom and sexual compensation. There are no other rules, such as, for example, the development of a new disciplinary rule of public service that encloses facts or shortcomings related to unwanted sexual behaviors affecting the lower-age student. In all ways, say that there are also rapes that are produced between equals and without the involvement of teachers, but it also seems a good measure to us. Likewise, therefore, we see with good eyes to create an active support and listening unit for victims of violence in the department in order to be able to manage cases that arrive by direct communication channels, as can be a WhatsApp; we think it can be a measure that can contribute to it. And, simply, then, to end, to thank the honourable Member for her work, to thank the will to agree, that she has accepted the exams. And say we vote in favour of the joint motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.72.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies and deputies, parliamentary staff, good morning to everyone. I would also like to start my intervention with Mrs Jenn Díaz of the Republic Group, this motion on the approach to rapes at the educational centres, because it is a very difficult and worrying issue, and the cruelty of the witnesses we were listening to in Mrs Díaz's question only made it clear. It is true that things are beginning to change, and the example of the girls of Castellar del Vallès or Sabadell and other places is already an exhibition that the change has begun, but there is not enough, because this must be a task that must involve everyone – students, teachers and educators, families – is a task of the whole educational community, and of the whole citizenry in general. Mrs Díaz said in her question: the focus must never be on how to attack, the focus cannot always be on how to make women when they attack us, and it must also be an important job for children, for young people, for adolescents, for men, because, if not, it will be nothing. And he adds that this is why it is important that the same centers have a function that is useful, a plan, a protocol, a guide; the itineraries, that are clear, that are secure, because the young ones have these tools and have a way to deal with the situation that is not frontally with their attacker. The answer of the Honourable Councillor Bargalló was very clear, and from Juntes to Catalonia we fully agree, because this new protocol that uses all possible resources, and even the new ways of relating young and not so young, is to say, using social networks as well. Because it's very important that you can talk and have all the spaces to report, but it's also very important that this transcends the pairs of educational centers, and that's why it's going to take a lot more teaching than it's done so far. From Junto to Catalunya, we'll support every point of the movement. We are grateful that our approach has been accepted, because we agree with everything that has been done by the Government to ensure that at the end of three courses all the educational centres of the Education Service of Catalonia introduce sexual and affective education and the perspective of generating across all stages of compulsory education into their education project, but it seemed very important to us that the first and second cycles of childhood education are also taken into account, namely, from zero to three, and, above all, from three to six years. I have spoken a few times before of this forum: there are already many studies that recognize the importance of this educational stage: it is where many of the resources that will then be used to build the personalities of our citizens and citizens of the future are put in place. And it's also where infants can integrate values, behaviors, etc. more naturally. From this very rostrum, I would like to ask that this stage should be taken more into account. I would also like to make a recognition and acknowledgment of the collection of educators and teachers of children's education. And I say that in women because, unfortunately, they still feel a profession that is mostly feminized. A recognition, I said, for their excellent educational task, where their working conditions are often inversely proportional to the great responsibility with which they work, and this, at some point, will also have to be faced. Following the points of the motion, we also agree that it is necessary to provide the Department of Education with these new tools that allow a better management of those assumptions in which teachers or administrative staff and educational centres are subject to investigation in their judicial or administrative systems for alleged sexual offences. We also share the creation of a support unit for victims of rapes in the Department of Education linked to a direct communication channel, boom or similar, WhatsApp... This unit will have to manage all the cases that arrive and coordinate its approach, ensuring an action without delay, but also active listening to victims. I would also like to thank the papers presented for the PSC Group and Units for moving forward. We will also vote in favour of them, because we agree that they should be used for the strict compliment of the prevention protocol, detection and intervention before male violence between the students, which, among others, obliges the directions of the educational centers to communicate any knowledge or suspicion of a situation of male violence on the part of any member of the educational community to the education inspection. We also agree that we must act before justice when this is required. And finally, I would like to share a couple of phrases from the French psychiatrist, neuroleg and ethos, in Boris Cyrilnik, known as one of the peers in the concept of "resilience," and who says to us: "Do not forget or use, the only way out is to understand. For him the act of understanding is one of the fundamental strategies that allow us to move forward. He also speaks of the expression as the strategy of the confrontation: "Explaining yourself is exposing yourself to the danger, but silence is hollow in the wing. It is clear that both understanding and expression are very important, and it is already working in educational centres. The challenge will be precisely how to incorporate sexual and affective education and the perspective of generating in a transversal way to work together with the rest of the knowledge, and that this is as soon as possible better so as to begin to eradicate the rapes of any kind at the educational center and thus contribute to cases like Castellar or Sabadell never again. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.74.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. I've devoted a lot of my life to teaching: I've done Spanish classes for strangers, I've done college classes, but above all, I've done college classes. My great illusion was to be a high school teacher, and to this I devoted all my efforts. Being a teacher has given me very rewarding moments, and I can say that I've almost everything I know in life after I've gone to school, first as a student and then as a teacher. I always say looking at teenagers comes out a lot, because with them it's all like an augmented reality. I've also heard that teachers seem younger than they are, and it's probably because of this energy that the scoundrel's got and it ended up passing on to you. Being a teacher is one of the nicest, most interesting and, above all, most important jobs that exist. We must all agree that having good teachers is something that marks you for life, but the motion we vote for today, unfortunately, speaks of the contrary case, speaks of those teachers who mark you for life to destroy you. All people, having the age they have, deserve to respect, but in the case of children and adolescents they have to be especially curated, because their personality is in construction, and this makes them more fragile. Obviously, I am annoyed by any aggression against a woman, and from my group we condemn any type of aggression, but it is still worse when this aggression is against a girl or a teenager, and, moreover, it is an aggression on the part of whom I should age for the welfare and training of this girl or this teenager. Families leave their children at school with complete confidence, as if they were their second home, and I can tell them, for my extensive experience in classes, that indeed, the schools are like the second home of students. That's why it can't bring the trust of these families, and much less bring the trust of these students. Unfortunately, these days we have heard reports of attacks on young people by their teachers at two institutes and, unfortunately, for what it seems, people looked at another band for a long time. In one of the institutes, Castellar's, the physical education teacher wore two years assembling students, two years destroying young people's lives. In some cases they were so young that they were twelve years old and obviously they didn't dare say, possibly because they weren't even able to formulate themselves if you were what was going on, and also for the sake of reprisals. And, for what it seems, there were girls who were brave and decided to report it to the direction, but they wouldn't do it. That's terrible, and I can't go through any more. And from here I want to thank the Republican Left for this young man's presentation, to which we will give support, except in one of the points. First of all, we consider it important that sexual and affective education be introduced across the whole education, as the Nordic countries have done since decades ago and as is already being done at the Andalusian Junta. And from here I want to highlight the great work being done by Councillor Imbroda, and also Constellera Rocío Ruiz, who is Councillor of Igualtat, Social Policies and Conciliation, a figure that we unfortunately don't have here in Catalonia, and her pocket has been recognized with different awards, and also with a very good value always at the quests. We'll give support to this point because it's very important. But it must be noted that it is just one year ago, in October of the 19th, Councillor Bargalló announced that emotional education would be imparted from childhood education to ESO for the next three years, which is exactly the same as this point. It turns out, if not, that the party to which the councillor belongs carries to vote a point that says exactly what the councillor who would do a year ago said, would have to ask the councillor why he hasn't done it all this year. But I'm telling you, we're gonna support it because we think it's important. To which we cannot give support is to paragraph 3 of point 2, because – we have presented a statement – if we really want justice to work well, we must provide resources for this justice. That's why we ask to equip the offices with the right personal resources and materials, because public servers can do the best they can to protect the interest of minors. And, curiously, this was not accepted. I'd like you to explain to me how you intend to protect minors without giving the necessary resources. Because justice in Catalonia is unfortunately in a deplorable situation. Also... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well, I'll leave it here. In any case, we hope that the movement will prosper, but I would also like to say that precisely, Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia do not have any credibility in this sense, because they left the children who were part of a sexual exploitation network unprotected, and who were, or should have been, protected by the DGAIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.76.0	Well, thank you. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, first of all, what I would like to do is to thank Congresswoman Jenn Díaz, so the presentation of this young man, of this inquiry, of the facts that we met a few weeks ago, of this public complaint through the social networks of the students of the Castellar Institute, who put us all at the top, right? With his particular note, he denounced the sexual assaults he suffered for years by a teacher, to whom he was accompanied by students, which proved that it was indeed time that the situation lasted, and that it was not new. You were listening to the previous interventions, weren't you? , first of all the proposer's, and it made me think, so how, actually, this motion and this approach has a deeply republical point, right? , in the sense of hearing republicanism like fighting against all abuses of power. And this is the main source of power that we have today in our societies. And, therefore, I think it is important that we put into value this conception of freedom, freedom understood as ‘non-dominance, which is what republicanism understands. With another principle also very close, which is that of fraternity, is to say, only if we understand ourselves as equals of our society can we advance. And it makes sense for Mrs Gallardo to refer to another concept, which is that of resilience, too, isn't it? I believe that it is also important that we understand this resilience as a transformative resilience, that is, not to adapt to the society we have, but to be able to change it, and this I believe is the main point at which we have to address this issue, to be able to combat the structural elements, which are basically those of patriarchal society. Like I said, right? So, the situation a few weeks ago in Castellar generated a social alarm, we all put our hands in the head and then we did act and took action from the Department of Education, taking the teacher away from his duties. Obviously, it was late, and that's why we have to act, so we won't be late again. It was necessary for girls to have the courage and security needed to make the complaint public, to confront the teacher, to confront the educational institution at the company's side. Victims who have had to take the first step of recognizing themselves as victims, but victims, too, who often have to justify themselves, who feel questioned, who have to explain themselves, and are, therefore, revictimized. A great paradox, a great injustice and a great shame. Soon after, Sabadell's case arrived, and therefore another centre where we came back to see that this reality permeates us throughout our society. They were things that they knew, that they were always, that they were talking, that they were not taking into account, that they were not acting, that they were leaving the victims alone hoping that the evil trangole past, that it was passed by course, that the institute was left, and, thus, that nine victims would arrive. And the education system didn't answer, it didn't protect them. And we often see this situation in our educational system, which has no capacity to respond before difference, before abuse of power. It happens with male rapes, but it happens also with students with some learning disorder in which we pass the course without identifying the problem. And we need an educational system that is capable of responding to what is not homogeneous, what escapes from the norm, or those problems that run counter to the norms of our society, which are, as I said, dominant. And of cases like these, so, there are thousands, and most in silence. Normally, we're talking more about male violence murders. Yesterday, in fact, here in Parliament, so we did, unfortunately, another minute of silence for a new victim. But feminicide is the tip of the iceberg of a patriarchal system that I supported and that justifies violence against women. The tip of the iceberg, which has on its bases, among others, attacks in educational centers. And sexual rapes, assaults are only fought if patriarchy is fought. If there is an integral approach to these rapes, from prevention, as the deputy said, to reparation, starting this repair with the detection of the proper cases. It is a priority to identify all those issues that encourage and sustain inequalities and change them. And that, at schools, at the educational centers, is done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, But it's true that we're late, that we're finishing a three-year term and that we're just starting to settle down. In any case, as I said, we celebrate this young man, we regret it at the same time, because it is the result of the cases we met a few weeks ago, but we appreciate it and our group will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.78.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, our recognition and thank you for this motion. It seems absolutely opportune, necessary and urgent, and therefore we congratulate her, and, of course, we will vote in favour of it. Indeed, patriarchy and male and sexual rapes and the combination of abuse of power across our entire society and all its institutions. And, unfortunately, the school doesn't stay on the sidelines and it's not yet a protected space from this problem. That's why we have to fight, prevent and eliminate all attitudes related to male-based rape and sexual abuse and assault that are going on. This has been a grave that has been frequented in religious centers and starred by members of the clergy. It's zero tolerance and an absolute need for silence and cover-ups. And lime, also, and above all, for victims, recognition, justice and reparation. But we also need to ensure that all schools – in this sense, public centres have the obligation to mark references and exceptionality – are safe, protected and with an active and shared culture against any form of abuse and sexual violence. And that is why it is also essential, effectively, that all schools be spaces of sexual and emotional education, with a gender perspective, feminist, therefore, across and beyond all educational stages. And, finally, it also seems essential and necessary that, in consequence and congruence, finally, we can have in our education system a protocol of prevention and approach of male and sexual rapes in the Department of Education, in the inspection system and in all school and educational centers of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.80.0	Thank you, President, from the seat. The motion deals with a scourge, such as violence and abuse in schools. A scourge that must be eradicated by providing the education system and students with the necessary tools to make it really felt that the educational institutions are safe spaces and where the elements of detection, prevention and accompaniment to the victims work. And, therefore, there is scope for improvement, and much, and the motion points in that direction, and we will support these aspects. Obviously, it is also necessary to ensure that certain situations that seem to be common sense do not occur, as if, for example, a teacher, after serving the sentence, so it is logical that he does not return to the educational centre from which he left. I believe that these are aspects of common sense that should not be produced and, therefore, we will also support the motion in that regard, because we believe it reflects a very positive aspect. What we have not just understood is the issue of introducing sex education at all levels of compulsory education. I think every moment has its stage, and I think that, in the first years of compulsory schooling, so, introduce sex education..., man, I think a six-year-old, a six-year-old girl, so, at that time, maybe he has other things to learn more priority. There will already be time to introduce..., probably at an early age, but I don't think that at the age of six, so it is the most appropriate age to introduce what sex education is. Nor is the motion specific, perhaps we could agree, but, in that sense, I believe that the motion, therefore, contains unclear or specific aspects of what it is referring to, and, therefore, in that regard we are going to abstain on this point. We share the rest of the motion and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has a turn of new Congresswoman Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.82.0	Thank you, President. Do you know what's going on? That with six years maybe you think they're not ready for sexual education, but there are a lot of men who already abuse children with six years. Therefore, they need this sexual education at all ages, because there is no such thing as being excluded from male rape. This young man, with the measures we propose, is obviously addressed to all victims of attacks in educational centres. As Congresswoman Niubó said, there are also equals with children and young people, and therefore we have accepted this question with this will. But it is not known that at certain ages many young women suffer and that there is a somewhat high percentage that aggression perpetuates an adult man who is of reference. And, therefore, as a full-fledged power bust, we want to make this specific mention to all the young women who raised the veil – also to those who have not raised the veil – because they know that from this Parliament we want to send them to this message, which is that they are not alone. And, therefore, we wanted to make this reference explicit. We have also accepted the Junta Group's message for Catalonia, because, indeed, compulsory education also had to include the first and second cycles, and the last two points of the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress, because vetting for protocol and character before justice is already ugly. The intention was to add new things to the young man, but in any case, as we already do and agree, we accepted it. We did not accept Ciutadan's papers because they were papers that talked more about justice and we thought that this young man was being misled, that in any case, what he was referring to is more about what the Department of Education should do and not as long as it is going to pass when the cases are judicial. Thanking the good understanding with all the groups, and that this young man comes forward is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the import of influenza prevention and other winter conditions during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00252/12]] After the debate, we go to the next item on the order of the day, which is the 20th, and which correspond to the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the import of influenza prevention and other winter diseases during the Covid-19 pandemic. To expose her, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Ms Gemma Espigares. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.84.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, first of all, thank the Vergés Councillor's team for noticing that they couldn't be, because they're right now doing the press wheel with the Samper Councillor to explain the health news. We return to a complicated situation and, therefore, it is important to maintain this constant communication with all citizens and to do so systematically. So thank your team that you've dragged us through. We are today carrying a young man insisting on the preventive sphere, who knows that this is one of the demands we have had during this parliamentary term and, in this concrete case, on the influenza vaccination campaign. Obviously, to convey, as it cannot otherwise be, the support, which we have had all the parliamentary groups, all the parliamentary arc, to the professional, not only in the form of applause, but also in the form of better conditions, with more professionals; they have also incorporated, since September, to tracers, to us profiles, to health profiles, although they know that it has been difficult to find even more workers than the government is willing to be able to contract, and that this new state of alarm will also allow, therefore, this rapid contract that the system needs. Therefore, in the first place, transfer them also this grace. And in the field..., or going into the concrete detail of the motion, we, in a way, insist the Government not only to follow these anticipatory channels, to be able to make this vaccination campaign two weeks before it was predicted, and that, moreover, it is very good rhythm, but above all, to put the focus on the fact that among all of us we are doing this communicative campaign to focus very well on the most vulnerable collectivities to which this campaign must be directed: to pregnancy, also to people who have some chronic pathology, and, this year, especially, to the social health personnel. And I am focused on the socio-health side because it is true that there is a tradition between a part of the professionals who are at the hospitals, who are in the primary care of getting vaccinated, but not so much in the residential area, and therefore urge the government to intensify this specific campaign with people who are in residence, who are particularly vulnerable, also this year, and therefore to make this campaign with them, and also with all the professional collections. Two weeks ago, when I asked this young man before, he already put the emphasis on the vaccination campaign that has promoted collections like the Lleida College of Nursing Professionals, as the instant Metges College the professional differences to do it. I, finally, the part of the municipal world. This year we also saw the vaccination campaign coming out of primary care centres, where it is normally located, and in fact explained to them that there was no one, in this concrete case within a pavilion, where there were different established circuits. Above all, because we use, and this is the last point of the motion, these circuits as learning. I don't want to focus on Covid's vaccine right now, because I think we're still staying... I don't think so, go, all the experts, that we're still having a lot of tough weeks. Therefore, we will all have to put on our side to continue to flatten this raven, with a transmission rate that seems to be going down, that has slowed down, but that there is still a lot of stress in the healthcare system, especially in the critical part. Therefore, we still have a lot of work to do to make life compatible, and also the health care side. Therefore, to make compatible this social part, this economic part with the whole situation of the health system. The vaccine is there and they're doing all the tests, but it does seem to me that it can be said that these circuits that have innovated this year, for example, advancing the campaign, for example, working with the municipal world to be able to campaign outside the CAPs, and also, to say the least, there are CAPs that have followed it within the same CAPs with two different circuits... So that, somehow, all this is for us to learn, also with proposals that I understand the groups will do. He started talking about the drug business. So, a lot of people want us all to talk to each other about how these circuits are supposed to work, and also how to analyze everything that hasn't gone so well. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, we will move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. And it has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.86.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members, since we have the opportunity to have a health debate again, allow me to address my first words, first, to remind the dead and victims of the current pandemic, and, second place, and also important, of course, again, to the professionals who are doing, as always, an excellent job. We're talking about health issues again with a government that doesn't have any kind of credibility anymore. I didn't have much, but day by day I'm losing, and I'm still losing, to manage this second pandemic. You know, I've said it over and over again, that since Ciutadans, from day one, we've been loyal to this government, we've extended our hand to help convince them to improve the management of the pandemic, but we've seen a government unable to manage it well, but still more unable to build bridges with those who are theirs, in this case, Ciutadans and opposition groups. We, in this sense, prioritized, we heard that it was urgent for Catalonia to have this monographic debate to manage what was coming. Today we are talking about influenza, but influenza is not the only issue, and especially during the time of the coronavirus pandemic, which has, therefore, the pulse of the health system. And, therefore, we had this debate, which we asked before the summer, urgent and priority, precisely, to avoid arriving at times as we are arriving, not only for the Covid, but for which the epidemic of the flu will come. And unfortunately, this concern we do not see reflected in a government, basically, because when we arrived, late..., because you wanted to have this debate, late, about the health system in Catalonia in this Parliament, hours before we had a councillor with Xavier Vendrell, an ex-terrorist we know now, so that is working with irregular contracts, and that, it seems, all points out that he intended to profit from the pandemic. That is to say, Ciutadans was urgently asking to have a specific ple of coronaviruses in the Parliament of Catalonia to avoid issues such as today's debate – for example, the grip – and we see, therefore, how there were dispersed people who today, so, well, he says..., when we heard the councilwoman say it to the radio textually« try to talk to everyone. And I have to deny it: no, no, not everyone else, because here we kept the meths who denounced and complained about talking to her, and that she didn't have time, and just temporarily coincides with her dinar with the terrorist for three hours. So I didn't have time to negotiate with the meths on the loose, and today we're talking about the grip, which will be the ones working little bit of the can when there are patients with the grip, these meths. Neither did I have time, this counselor, to work, so with the doctors and nurses who were on the move. Today we know that he has not had as much time to answer the odontólegs, that they ask him, if you please, at least, simply, an answer to a letter that the president of the Odontólegs College sends to the councilman asking for proof of antics to give more security to the consultations. This has been transferred to the institutes, it has been transferred to the schools, but there is no time, this councillor, to answer the cards. Well, we, in short, proposed constructively to improve the pandemic and, unfortunately, we saw what it was dedicated to at that time, the counselor, and, in any case, I suppose your team, because someone will have to give explanations. I don't know if they'll give explanations, we've asked them to give them. All the explanations until now that we have rejected are those that we have known; textually: "We know, but we don't know anyone. Well, I don't know if these are all the explanations that Catalonia deserves: "You know, but we don't know anyone. That's what moved like all the sensitive explanation. I understand that today they have a difficult paper, saying or arguing why today the counselor is not here. Look, the counselor isn't here today because she decided not to be. The press wheel can never be an excuse; basically, because we have been diligently able to change this young man at any other time, and therefore, or she was changing the press wheel or us, our intervention. If it's not again, it's because people don't care what we're talking about – as always, it's common – opposition groups. The data are worrying: 485 people today at the ICU. We now carry 14,378 dead to Catalonia, with exhausted professionals, with collapsed primary care. Therefore, Members and Members, remember what I said exactly on February 12, 2020 from the escho; I was talking about the exact lack of content to the issues of the influenza pandemic, because you today reflect it to your young man. Obviously, I'm doing the whole legislature that I'm explaining to them and saying that these measures were essential to improve the pandemic management of the flu as well, and you, so, well, for so many years lost have not done so. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore – thank you, President, with this end – listen and read more about the opposition, in this case, Ciutadans. It's been years since I gave them what you're bringing to Parliament today, and so obviously, we haven't even been able to make statements. This was already voted and we will vote for it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. In any case, point out that some expressions have been used, say, address a person who seems to exceed the limit of what is usual, and are accusations that the deputy has made directly. I'll just point it out. I'll give you the opportunity to kill them or remove them. (Founding voice) Tell me? (Founding voice) No, no, you're not a congressman. Certainly, he is not a deputy; therefore, he is not a member of this chamber, indeed he had been. He's made some hard direct accusations. I think they exceed the limits we've set ourselves. Therefore, I give you the opportunity to either kill them, or remove them. But, in any case, I correspond, obviously, to the Member, and, if not, my call to order will be recorded in the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.88.0	Well, I thank you, President, for giving me this opportunity. Simply put, what I've explained is what you see is that you're talking to the public right now. And the only one I said – in fact, I've already done it in the Register of this Parliament – is to ask the Councillor that if it really is like you think it is, that there is no guilty person here, or I was the Councillor, you have come here to speak and say exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.89.0	No, you don't understand me, Congressman. No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.90.0	...when you can come and this congressman will be here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.91.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.92.0	...to discuss this with the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.93.0	Deputy, just a moment. He didn't understand me. Obviously, I do not respect the political assessments that you can make. I am talking about the qualification that you have associated with a certain person, twice, twice, in the Faristol. I didn't cut it at the time the expression was used. You know what expression it is; you spoke of "a terrorist of a person who had been part of this chamber, and yet you were not so. Therefore, I ask you, or I offer you the possibility of either mating, or removing the words, and, if not, it will contain in the record my call to order respect these considerations, which, I insist, I believe exceed the limits that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.94.0	Excuse me, maybe you can contradict me. As far as I got there, this gentleman was a member of Terra Lliure, a terrorist group; therefore, who fights in a terrorist group and is dedicated to becoming bombs is terrorist. But, well, anyway, if that's not the case, you'll make it clear to us: were you or were you not a member of Terra Lliure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.95.0	Well, I'm not here to clarify anyone's biography. (Founding voice) In any case, it will be recorded in the Minutes, Member. The paragraph now has the deputy Assumpta Escarp, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.96.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Again, this session of Parliament's plenary is focused..., or it is also talking again about what is going on, the evolution of the pandemic; yesterday we held the most extraordinary session of its impact, both health, social and economic, as well as the need to improve the management and governance mechanisms. The information, said before Mrs Espigares, is very important, it is true, and in time of pandemic is very important, and with a crisis of public health as well; basic, it is basic, moreover, if we want to cry out to the responsibility of the people. It's also transparency. And I just want to ask here and now that we do and do, from the government, this transparency exercise too with everything; I think it helps, too, and will help in managing everything. Let me tell you that I was surprised by the motion, just as I was surprised by the question, because it is obvious that we share – but not this year, always – that we have to prevent the flu, and that, moreover, this year the prevention of the flu and winter respiratory diseases, which in the day, coincides with the second wave of the Covid and the moment when we are, therefore, very important. We said, we've always said it all: seasonality plays against everyone, in this pandemic; and, therefore, coincidence, especially in the most vulnerable, with the chronic diseases, the great people, and also the professionals, can worsen pathologies, but it can also create other risks. It is a young woman who cannot vote against; Mrs Espigares knows that it is very difficult, that we cannot be against encouraging influenza vaccination, protecting vulnerable groups, that health care workers and people living in the country are vacuums and protecting them as much as possible. But I can't tell you that at least this year they seem to believe it, because this Member has made many initiatives in this sense, which are voted on, but then it costs a lot to bring it to reality. Look, we have a lot of work to do on the issue of cows, and with the Covid vaccine too, because with this European survey that took place on 29_per_cent you say it is not a Covid vaccine. So, you mean we still have a lot of work to do, don't you? And it's not a subject, many times, of negationism; it's simply unconsciousness and it's because. I told you that this MP and her group have presented initiations in the years 2017, 2018, 2019 that we talked about influenza and vaccination. But we also talked about how to deal with the emergency breakdown, how the PIUCs were not enough, how the vaccination was not intensified enough and how the people and the professionals needed to deal with the episodes of the flu did not continue to be urgent. So, somehow, we do, apart from encouraging and promoting vaccination campaigns: they argue. Because neither the Planuc – the national plan of the councillor Comín – nor the PIUC – that those who are not of the genere are scared-faced, like the councillor Bargalló – have given an answer to what each year we have dyed in the episodes of the grip. And so, somehow... I will vote in favour of it, but in the same way that I liked it not only that I voted in favour, but that complicates the resolutions that were adopted in this House and in the committee on influenza and vaccination. But one thing I'm telling you, this year they're gonna do it. So, I can be happy, I always demand the compliment of the resolutions, that this year they will do it. Because on these structural deficiencies that I gave them as an emergency shock– I don't know if they remember the tweets of emergency services giving them the hours of hope–, so we dropped the Covid. And, therefore, structural deficits, few resources, made the treatment of the pandemic more difficult. See if they do what we say – apart from the fact that the vaccination rate among professionals is around 28_per_cent, we'll see this year as soon as we're done – that in the year 2019 you, the government, bought fewer cows than the vaccination rate predicts. That's to say, he sent us a predicted vaccination index and bought fewer cows. That's right, I didn't have any clear-cut people either. I already told them that we agreed with the points that you are planting and would therefore vote for them. But I did want to check three things. It doesn't work, making a vaccination campaign and that a person of seventy-five years and chronic give it time on February 8, 2021. I'm sure the grip and God wants you to be alive. And what's not there is no priority for people who are more vulnerable and who, therefore, have the first time up. It doesn't seem very normal to me when we said that we did prioritize residences and others didn't. And to finish, they say in point f: "Keep working with the municipal world, which has put a lot of resources at your disposal. In fact, we could ask: "Keep working and thank the municipal world for the efforts and resources that have been made available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.98.0	Advisors, deputies, deputies, every winter we talk in this Parliament about which continues to fail in the influenza campaign: low immunization rates, especially of health professionals, also among some of the most risky collections; need for rapid sorting or differentiated circuits in health centres to avoid contact of people infected with the flu with the rest; lack of personnel enough to cope with peaks, especially in hospital emergencies, every winter. This year can be especially complicated by the coexistence of the flu with the coronavirus pandemic. And the proposals they make to the Republican Left Movement seem correct to us, and we will approve them. And it will satisfy us especially, if it is complete. At least one young man's, at least this year, puts the measures sufficient to cope with the col·lapse that each year is generated with the grip. You had to get a pandemic because you're doing it. I want to highlight the last point, the evaluation of the work of the circuits in different spaces, which is set in march this year, for the vaccination of the influenza, to evaluate how to apply it also in the future vaccination campaign for Covid when we have the vaccine and when it arrives. I think it is especially important to make this assessment to learn from the experiences, to be able to make a good vaccination campaign of the Covid. And here's what I'm referring to this young man. Why are the opposition groups now, one day and another, complaining about it, right? It's about other issues. And I will not disapprove of a debate from a Republican Left Movement, precisely, to reiterate our petitions again respecting the situation of the Covid. The president of my parliamentary group, Jessica Albiach, was also taking them to the debate on the management of the state of alarm. And it's just that we're back at the right time. The impact of the Covid was reduced, but the numbers of people entering ICUs and hospitals are still very high and we can't relax. I can't do it citizenry, but neither can the government. People are already making a lot of effort – a lot. Now it's time for the government to really anticipate, plan and pursue all the resources it can. There are already discussions and public disagreements between you. We know, that they don't get along, between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, but they are responsible at a time of crisis like the present. I, please, don't drag it out with the least. I'll get the economic stake at the maximum. The State has eliminated the deficit limit. I'm pulling a thousand. I'm pulling a thousand. Yesterday Councilwoman Budó said: "We have to be indebted to whoever comes to us. So come on. Therefore, Mr. Bargalló, Councillor Bargalló, I am glad that you are here today; tell Mr. Aragonès that you have all the money to hire all the staff you need, of all the types you need, because it can only be because of the lack of reinforcements that have been made with primary care staff or in public health to track you now make more saturation of the education staff. It cannot be that the teachers and the management teams of the institutes are the ones who have to be in control of the PCRs that have to be made by the same students or the contact tracking. Let the staff do their job, do their pedagogical task, which they have enough, with this. And reinforce the whole-time primary, reinforce the whole-time public greeting. We need personal help to track and track down people who are still aware of the rest of the suffering and the malaise and discomfort we have – the flu, among others – in the health care system. And so is Covid, obviously. Put backups already in primary care, put backups already in tracking. And if the hospitals are already saturated, as my Jesuit companion Albiach said yesterday, they use private hospitals. I'm putting them back to the needs of the public system, which they can. And maybe that's not how they're supposed to be deprogramming interventions, as is already happening. But, obviously, I don't make the same mistake they made in the first round – at least when we think it was wrong, perhaps not – of being the autonomous community that paid the private centers the most for using their facilities and their staff for the Covid. And there are many of us who are willing to take tough and drastic steps to save lives, but to defend them as the government shows real will to compensate for the economic damage they cause in the most affected sectors. And that can't be done with countertops or always insufficient. They're not your money, they're all yours, they're all yours, the city. Now I'm spending to save lives, but I'm also not letting anyone back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.100.0	Thank you very much, President. To intervene from the escó. In the first place, we would like to thank the present young man, to thank her for what it means – we would vote for all the points, for all the agreements in favour – and, above all, for the look she has, which is a look of public salvation, but above all, of community salvation. We should not forget what this has meant for the lives of some and some people, for example, in public education in the eighties; our cows come through a medical review that we have applied to schools and, therefore, equals all the children of Catalans and Catalans in their access to public salvation, to salvation, in any case; to prevention. And, therefore, we think it is absolutely necessary, this young man. That said, it gives us the feeling that this young man was wonderful the past year, the previous ones, is also fine, but this year asked for another reality. And the reality that I asked, and that I ask, and that, unfortunately, will ask this year, is about another question, that is how we focus and give answers to the health needs derived from the Covid-19. And, therefore, insist: today we cannot confirm that testing and tracking are guaranteed with all the celerity that is needed. And so, now what I'd ask is that we put all the media in. And all the media means that if we are to manage, not to make available, to manage all the resources of public health by the conjunction of our people, we do, because we are talking about life and, therefore, there is no other excuse that can be worth not doing this exercise that all health resources are made available by the conjunction of our people. And, therefore, end this idea. Appreciate this look of public salvation and community salvation, but at once also put the focus where we need it now, which is to track and test with maximum celerity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.102.0	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is that more than a young person, what we have in front of us today is a good news release, which is the awareness of the good news and the need for vaccination, especially and in particular, of vaccination on influenza and, indeed, vaccination has beneficial effects, in the first place, on people, because they have fewer effects or may have fewer effects when they are vaccinated. But then again on the health system, because, precisely, the result of the Covid pandemic, the health system is extraordinarily tense, is overloaded and, therefore, the fact that people have less flu effects also means that we will strain the health system less. Therefore, from this point of view we have absolutely no objection and will therefore vote in favour of this motion. Now, I do want to make two considerations. One first. There are things that we don't just get connected to, because the department says, and it also said last year: listen, the goal is that, for example, people older than sixty-five years..., 75_percent of these people should be vaccinated. Therefore, we are making a campaign aimed at this objective. Now, it turns out that 75 per cent of the population of majors of sixty-five years in Catalonia is 1,100,000 people and, in change, the Health Department buys 600,000 cows for majors of sixty-five years. Therefore, one of two: either they have little faith in the objects that are marked or they have more quickly little prediction. And this year this will be resolved in part, because the ministry sends 340,000 cows that will be for seniors of sixty-five years and seniors of seventy-five years and, therefore, this year this can be covered, but the targets were exactly the same as last year, and the number of cows also exactly the same. And the second consideration is in relation to the use of Community space to make massive vaccinations. It sounds good to us in the sense that this is used to unload spaces, to unload primary care centers, but it is not used to unload primary care teams. It doesn't help to unload people, because people have to move to another right to do the vaccinations. Therefore, we believe that the department should provide for other possibilities, and we have said it many times, you said it yourself, we have health professionals at the pharmacies that are available to do these tasks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Lluís Guinó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.104.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, let me say, first of all, that such a time would have been interesting that, on the part of some parliamentary groups, they had submitted papers to the motion for a motion, because the Member proposing it would have had the opportunity to rebut some of its manifestations and speeches, basically, because some have clearly deviated from what was the literal and concrete content of the motion. I would certainly like to refer strictly to a fact that is not known to face and, moreover, to plan from a health perspective and from the Health Department, and this is this coinfection scener, that some health workers, and especially the same Dr. Campins, from the Valley of Hebron, had indicated that it could be produced in this pandemic scener and in the usual seasonal scener of the flu during the late and winter of each year. Certainly, this co-infection scene generated more risks and, therefore, this motion was intended to lay on the table and to show that these risks existed and what measures the Health Department had articulated and planned to take. It is epidemics or viruses that are very similar, that have a very similar symptomatology, and that, therefore, at the time of distinguishing them and distinguishing them, we do not only have difficulty with the same diseases or people who suffer from this virus, but also at the health level the same methods certainly have difficulty at the time of distinguishing which type of virus or what type of affectation they suffer from. In fact, the coinfection, for example, at the international level and in the studies that have taken place, that are relatively few..., there was a very interesting study in England of the Angles Public Health Agency, which made a study about twenty-thousand people, approximately; fifty-thirty-thirty of these twenty-thousand people suffered both diseases at the same time, with a high mortality respect for these people, practically 50_per_cent, and what was evidenced and believed is that the risk was especially high and worrying for the large people over seventy-five years, who, in this case, were practically 80_per_cent of the people affected. The motion also refers to how this problem affects the most vulnerable group. And in the case, for example – which has been referred to – from the embarrassments, and for what it does to the grip last season, there is also a study that, for example – and that is why we believe that there is still a lack of awareness, for lack of information, to convince us every day more and more strongly that the influenza vaccine is a vaccine, certainly, sure, that, moreover, it saves many lives, and that we especially know these most vulnerable collections – in Catalonia the past year has only been immunized 34_percent of pregnant women, for example, and it is probably a question that needs to be improved. And, for what he does to people over fifty-nine years old, he's only vaccinated 42 percent of these people. When reference has been made to the lack of forecasting on the part of the department at the time of buying enough doses to deal with this problem a year later, what has to be considered – and it has already been referred to the Socialist Party's deputy – is that an effort has to be made – and these motions for resolution have been approved practically unanimously when they came to the Health Committee – because the professionals, too, in some way, assume that they are to be vaccinated, because especially intense, this need for vaccination, must be in the field where we are today, at this time, and which will last a few months, of the coexistence of the Covid and the influenza. Therefore, we find it interesting that all these mechanisms, all these circuits that the Department of Health has or that are eventually carrying out have a more forward temporal extension. Reference has also been made to another issue that has to do with collaboration, coordination of gatherings in the issue of the Covid, and, in this case, how to participate also in the good planning of influenza vaccination campaigns. We work together, we work together and we coordinate with the department, basically, for one thing, not only in the area of finding alternate spaces to carry out these vaccinations, not in the internal area of each of the health centres, but also, if they are public equipment that has possibilities and is well placed to facilitate these vaccinations..., they have also helped them. Therefore, we have defended and defended, and the defence department, obviously, the collaboration and good coordination between the local administration and the Health Department of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the use of languages in public communication media]] [[302-00253/12]] After this debate, let's go to the next point, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the use of languages in public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Sonia Sierra has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.106.0	Thank you, Mr. President. This motion is a motion in defence of freedom and equality. It is a motion that defends the freedom of all citizens – to speak the language they want – and the equality of all citizens – to speak the language they speak. And the truth is that it is strange that in a democracy we have to demand the freedom and equality of all citizens, because it is something that is already contemplated in our Constitution. But unfortunately, from the Government of the Generalitat – which, by the way, no councillor has wanted to be present in this motion – they decide to skip the Constitution over and over again and trample on the rights of all Catalans, while the Government of Spain looks elsewhere. What we are asking in this motion is to equate us with the rest of the world's democracies, because in no country in the European Union does the things we have to suffer here in Catalonia happen. For starters, we ask for something as logical as allowing business to be labeled in the language you want. In no democracy in the world is anyone fined for labeling a business in the official language of the country. Only someone who hates a language can fine for using it, and we don't want to live in a place where it's legislated from hate. We also call for condemnation of campaigns of harassment of workers and self-employed persons, usually of foreign origin, not to mention Catalan. In recent times we have seen how the lynching campaigns encouraged and promoted by Platform for Language have multiplied. And the most recent case is that of the employee of a bakery, harassed in her workplace and on social networks for not speaking in Catalan. We cannot allow xenophobia to encamp in Catalonia. That is why we call for firmness against these attacks which have reached a worker in this Parliament. A few weeks ago there was a lynching campaign against a companion of all of us because she dared to speak Spanish on TV3, and they asked her to say goodbye. Asking a worker to be fired for speaking in her language is unthinkable in any democracy. And these harassment campaigns are also spreading to universities, encouraged again by Platforma per la Llengua, and the truth is that it is not possible to point out and harass teachers for speaking in one of the official languages of the country. From here I want to express all my support and that of my group to all those harassed people, and tell them that Citizens will always be here to face for them and to try to protect those of totalitarians. And I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which side are you going to be on, the side of the harassers or the side of the harassers? Will they continue to close their eyes to xenophobia or will they join us in asking that xenophobia in Catalonia be stopped? I hope this motion will serve to unite us all – I imagine so, because I see very attentively recording me to a separatist deputy to spread what on her networks, which I thank you for. I was telling them that I hope this will serve to unite us all in the purpose that each one can speak the language he wants without suffering any attack for it. From Citizens we want a Catalonia in which the languages serve to communicate and to unite and not to harass and divide. We want a Catalonia in which all students can study in three vehicular languages, as do the children of families with money. They have already been told by the European Parliament that the Catalan education system discriminates against Spanish-speaking pupils and that this discrimination has to stop. We've been saying it for years; they haven't listened to us. I hope that they will listen to the European Parliament, although, man, I see it difficult, because just today an amendment is being voted on, because the Socialists have once again sold us to the nationalists and want to prevent Spanish from being a language used in schools. Fortunately, my colleagues Jordi Cañas and Maite Pagaza have already denounced him to the European Commission, and from here I would like to thank them for their work. As I said at the outset, this is a motion to demand the freedom and equality of all citizens, use the language they use, and if there are any speakers discriminated against in Catalonia, they are the speakers of the Catalan sign language. [[The speaker speaks in Catalan sign language.]] I suppose they did not understand me when I spoke in the Catalan sign language, because that is how deaf people feel when they see us in this Parliament and they cannot understand absolutely anything of what we say. I ask you to put yourselves on the skin of deaf people and put an end to this discrimination. From Citizens we want a society of free and equal people, and that articulates all our work, and we consider that the languages have two great enemies: those who want to ban them and those who want to impose them. Please be not on the side of the enemies of the tongue, but of those we want and defend all our tongues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, Mr Raúl Moreno has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.108.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sierra, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, we believe that language should not be a cause of conflict, separation or civil segregation. We believe that multilingualism is a richness that can preserve, care for and promote, because it speaks more of a language that enriches us, because it allows us to communicate more and better, and because it expresses our tolerant attitude and acceptance of the diversity that we have in Catalonia. We consider that the public authorities must protect and respect the use that citizens make of the official languages of Catalonia. No citizen must feel discriminated against, coerced or targeted by reason, nor by the language that you decide to use to communicate, to work, to express, to create culture, as they also contemplate some points of their youth. In relation to the retrenchments of the establishments, we have presented an issue that has not been accepted by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, it is pointed out that there are legislative changes that replace the current regime of penalties of the Code of Consumption of Catalonia for policies to promote the retrenchment of the establishments. We have defended, as we have always done, that all deaf people can freely decide whether to use Catalan sign language or oral mode. Whatever their choice, the public authorities, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, must provide them with technical and human resources, including interpreters, in all teaching hours and in all areas of education, culture and culture. We've also approved this a few times in this Parliament. And, finally, as far as the education system is concerned... a socialist deputy, son of a Spanish-speaking family, speaks to you, a student of the first class of linguistic immersion in Santa Coloma de Gramenet. I learned to speak both languages and I also learned to love them. I'm lucky to be in the PSC, which is a party where Marta Mata militated, one of the driving forces of the pact that made it possible for me to learn and use and want both languages. But, above all, I am proud to be in Marta Mata's party for stating that our mission is for children to learn and want both languages. And that's where they're gonna find us. I am part of a parliamentary group that wants the students, in finishing their basic education, to fully and in a way equivalent to the castle, the català, the orange occità to the Aran, and also a third language. There are no political objectives, in this proposal, seek educational objectives to make our children competitive when they enter the labour market and develop into their own social environment. You refer to the pre-agreement between the PSOE, United We Can and Left Republican in relation to a question that will be voted this late in the future Law of Education. An agreement respecting the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution, which guarantees the full and equivalent domain of castle and català to our classrooms, which also includes the need to make its use more flexible in other assignments with the clear objective: more català when there are more difficulties in learning català, more castle when there are more difficulties in learning castle. The precord does not end with the català or the castle at the schools, on the contrary, ensures its learning. Madam Sierra, all the years of governance of your members of the People's Party and not just you having the majority parliamentary group in this chamber have served to change the situation of Catalan schools. The Socialists and the Socialists at our congress have already been betting to make the current model more flexible to strengthen multilingualism; monolingualism impoverishes us and eliminates opportunities. And to get him to win elections and to agree. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, I do not count on us to make language an element of political confrontation: neither the castle is in danger in Catalonia nor the proposal that will be debated this late the elimination, the castle, of our education system. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, I do not count with us for Koiné manifestos or to silence before members of his Government when they manifest that an author or author born in Catalonia who wrote in castle does not form part of Catalan culture. The castle cannot and must not be considered a foreign language to our country; it forms part of our culture and is also our language. They represent you, Citizens and Together for Catalonia, the extremes of a rope that stretch it so much, they will only manage to break it, generating division and affluent our rich cultural and linguistic diversity. They will find us in respect for the impulse, knowledge and recognition of all the official languages of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.109.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.110.0	Thank you, President. Well, this is a lot of trouble, because in the title they talk about the use of the language in the communication media, then they talk about the retaliatoryness and the model of education, and, above all, they sweep it with the sign language; and, frankly, I doubt very much that deaf people enjoy the pleasure that they are sweeping their needs with their speech against the català. In any case, I want to begin by putting into evidence his nationalism, lords of Ciutadans. Mirin, the Spanish Constitution, Article 3.1: "The Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State. Article 3.2: "The other Spanish languages shall also be official in their respective autonomous communities. Spanish, Spanish. The other Spanish languages... català, castella, euskera, gallec are also Spanish languages. When you speak of Spanish, as a fan, in speaking accounts of the castle, you do not only lack respect for the rest of the languages of the State, but also want to standardize Spanish nationally under a single cultural reality that you want hegemonic. And I know it's hard, but it's that Spanish isn't that. Spanish is plurilingual and Spanish is plurinational. It is certain that the PSC in its discussions also speaks of Spanish and not of the castle. It seems that all of you are constitutionalists when you agree them, and when you do not, therefore, reshape the constitutional text in your opinion, both the Constitution and the Statute, and it is so broad. That said, we will vote in favour of points 3, 4 and 5 of your motion, because, indeed, we believe that we should condemn any act of settlement for language issues, whichever language is used. And from here we send a strong hug to the Amparo, worker of the bar of this Parliament, who was the victim of a totally unacceptable asset. It is obvious, however, that we do not share with you the idea of the state model, or much less its linguistic policy. We defend, as the State says, that the Catalan language is and must be the language of normal use of the public administrations and media of Catalonia, and the language of vehicle in teaching. That is what the Statute says, which forms part of the constitutional bloc, and you oppose it. And we defend it because – and they don't say that, and they have to recognize it – here is a minority language in its use, and the minority language in its use is the català. Look, the use of different languages in our society is not a problem, it's a rich one, it's a huge fate that our students can learn different languages. And before these two realities, a minority language and a linguistic diversity that we recognize as rich, linguistic normalization and the model of immersion with the catal as the vehicle language is what ensures that all the population can have access to this rich language under conditions of equality. That's what he's guaranteeing, and it's a peculiarity, it's a particular model that's not given to straight rails. It does not give to Euskadi, nor does it give to Quebec or Belgium, where the linguistic and cultural communities are completely segregated. Therefore, we have here a rich one that we understand that we can preserve. And I move to the second part of the young lady, who had nothing to do with everything we've been discussing so far, which is the sign language. In Catalonia there are close to 180,000 people with hearing difficulties, 97_percent of whom are communicated in oral language, not in sign language. There are 2,118 students with hearing impairment, most of them also communicate in oral language, and 185 students do so in sign language in bilingual mode. In any case, our group is committed to the Catalan sign language, and I think we have demonstrated this, but we believe that it is a different response to the group of students' needs with deafness, with a global view, respecting each family's options, with sufficient resources so that this is the case, and also because everyone can guarantee access to education. And that's not what you said in this young man, because it's obvious that while resources for bilingual mode have gone up and up, there's a lack of resources for oral mode. We will vote in favour of points 7 and 8, while we understand that what they propose is already developing. In fact, in the current assumptions we have already approved four items of our parliamentary group with presuppositional provisions for sign language in the Health, Education, Culture and Work and Social Departments. We'll abstain from points 9, 10 and 11, because we understand that they don't fit the global view we're talking about. We'll give support to points 12 and 13, and also to the CSP approved. And lastly, in paragraphs 16 and 17, you refer to the incorporation of sign language into Parliament. I would like to remind you that, through a motion for a resolution adopted this past month at the instigation of our group, it has already been approved to incorporate sign language into Parliament's plenary from the time of its own parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.112.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. Madam Sierra, your Croatian anti-Catalan language is really worrying. Often, when I hear her talking in this pharystol, or often, as you know, in the follow-up committee... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, excuse me, it's interrupting, Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.113.0	No, no, Mrs. Sierra, Mrs. Sánchez has the word. [[Sonia Sierra Infante intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.114.0	Fool...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.115.0	Mrs. Sànchez... Mrs. Sànchez, continue, please. Go on, Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.116.0	Miri, I'll give you thanks, Mrs. Sierra, for what you just did. You've made a very clear and very graphic example. [[applause]] What Citizens do with the Catalan language and with all the people, all the citizens that we have right to study in Catalan, we have right to speak in Catalan, we have right to write, we have right to go to university, and that, when we have enrolled in an assignment and say that it is in Catalan, we demand that it be in the proper language, in the common language, in the language that we have decided to speak. And it's that you have a Croatian against the Catalan and against the language. You were talking... there are two banners: they can be next to who wants to ban language. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Fix it. He won't let me talk, until all his own parliamentary group is telling him I let him talk. He's not letting me talk. I'm a member of the Catalonian Parliament and she's not letting me talk. It's just that it makes me very easy, Mrs. Sierra. Don't you see? There's a problem. You don't want to talk, write in Catalan. You go here and you're present as a victim, when data speaks for itself. The Spanish language community is huge, there are drawings of states that have as official language and only the castle. The castle is not persecuted in Catalonia. You're lying! If any language, with the dice in its hand, is damaged by the imposition and growth of the castle, it is Catalan. And, look, and here's the difference between a minority language and one that's not. When the català advances and has spaces where it can be used freely, the castle does not back off, Mrs. Sierra. It's totally the other way around. Minority language, Catalan language is a minority language. You're out of your way today. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and allow me, President, to finish my arguments, as Mrs. Sierra has not had the least education to let me talk. You, in your question, who gave fruit to this young man, spoke of "gendrel," and said that català is repulsive; "so dividing society using catalán is repulsive. I quote literally. I've just felt it, I've just pointed it out, huh? Don't fool him. Then we cannot give support to this cluster of lies and prejudices that they aim to eradicate the Catalan language of the Catalan Countries. The language...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.117.0	Congresswoman, now it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.118.0	...it only has us in Catalan speakers and, by luck, some legislation that makes it possible for the language to follow the language of cohesion, for example, at school.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.119.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.120.0	And that we must thank the working class of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which made it possible. Out of respect and memory for all these people, you should be more generous...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.122.0	...and more open-minded. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.123.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the honourable Member has the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, I had Mr. Rodriguez targeted. Mr. Serrano. I'm sorry; I'm sorry, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.124.0	Thank you, President. From the seat, to express our support for the motion. Our position on the treatment that the Administration has to give to our official languages is well known, and that it would be summed up in respect of the freedom and right of citizens to use in any public or private sphere in Catalonia any of the official languages, without imposition, without sanctions, without boycotts, without signaling and harassment campaigns for the use of a particular or other official language. With a public administration in Catalonia respectful of the linguistic rights of Catalans, that we could also preach and affirm from the public media in Catalonia, that they should be respectful with all official languages. In short, our position is none other than that emanating from the Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court as regards the use of the language and the treatment that the public administration must have with them, not forgetting us either, indeed, and although it had not much to do with the treatment that must be given to the Catalan sign language, the need to provide the necessary economic resources and the legal framework sufficient to make this reality of the formality of the Catalan sign language a reality as well. Therefore, this is our approach. We believe that the motion goes in that direction and, therefore, we will give you our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.126.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Sierra, I've got a lot better things to do than to record it to you. This young man has left me very unsettled. Formally, as the companies say, it talks about the use of language to public communication media, but when you pass it by point, so, the seventeen points of this young man, you can see that it is speaking of language, but that it is done with a hint of re-recording with some of the great hits of Citizens on language, and for the middle, in a strategia barroera, there are legitimate claims of Catalan sign language. So we're going to take a political vote on this motion and I'm going to tell them we're going to vote for everything. I'm a_second here, because one of the requests made by this young man is to presuppositionally provide the Catalan sign language Law 17/2010. To remember that the assumptions of 2020 have already included an increase of 450,000_euro specifically for these policies, which are added to the resources already devoted annually. It is obvious that there is not enough, and that we must continue to work and invest, but it is also important to remember that the State Law 27/2007, of the Spanish sign languages, foresees that the State Administration must also finance the Catalan sign language. That's why thirty years ago, and there's not a single euro. I suppose today they did not have any particular case that this time justified a new motion, which they used to do, and, therefore, they decided to draw from the usual arguments, because we already know that, in plenary too, you, therefore, need to make this political use of language always – always – from confrontation, as we have seen. For example, there's a point where they say you have to stop fineing the autonomes so you don't retaliate in català. Remember what the law says in this sense: "Senation and signs must be written in Catalan at least. What do you see, that in Catalonia the directory must also be in Catalan? What problem do you have, in guaranteeing the rights of people who have Catalan as the main language that your country is retaliated as the least in its language? Positive discrimination wasn't invented here, and you don't just have to see the language. Positive discrimination is used to protect those who are at a disadvantage or in danger, without any kind of animation, I do not wish to harm anyone or anything, simply, with the desire to protect those who are at risk, as in this case the català is. Because, let's remember: by the thirties it was the initial language for 99 percent of the population, while now it's only 36 percent. Don't you see him, this backstage? So much so that he sees. And therefore, as the reality is, you need to hold on to concrete cases that are in charge of raising to the category in order to outline the climate of linguistic tension that, according to you, is experienced in this country. They literally call for condemnation of attacks against public health workers, university professors and, later on, coercion against those who depend on a furnace to speak in Spanish in the exercise of their functions. With statements like these, you repeat one and another time until satiety, you build a totally blurred picture of the coexistence of languages in our country, and then pass 99.9_per_cent of the cases, where the languages interrelate with all normality, without strides, without conflicts; at my home, and I imagine that to most cases in this country. But it seems to you, and all the media you have left behind, they don't like this reality, this reality of coexistence, and they're willing to use techniques, if not questionable, to build a relationship that's already generated confrontation where there's now consensus. I suppose the Catalan. It's Don Diario. How, Okdiario, Global Chronicle, Digital Freedom and all a very long list of middlemen help them reinforce this conception of reality that after, without complex, makes the jump to traditional middlemen who have just reopened the claus and generated the mental mark, this image that defend the català, that work for its survival, that use positive discrimination as a tool to achieve it is of wicked people, xenophobes and I don't know how many more things. Miri, Mrs Sierra, I make it very clear: to estimate and defend the català is not against anything or anyone. And believe me: the granddaughter of the Consuelo and the Francisco told them, that the year 56 came from Extremadura, that they lived sixty years in this country without speaking a Catalan word. There is no language discrimination, it is neither against anyone nor against anyone. The richness of languages... the diversity of languages is a richness. And you want a monolingual country, and we're not going through it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Riera has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.128.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Let's start by saying things with propriety: a war, a bonyol or a nyap – an "gendar, in his language" – that's what it is. [[the clock shows the camera a few fulls]] This young man. A presumptive motion entitled "The use of languages in public communication means that you have points, and only one, the fifteen, speaks of public communication means; and to say a solemn obviacy: "Promoting respect for all languages to Catalan public communication means. End point. Here was the end of the argument about the use of languages in public media. If it was a class job, the teacher would come back and say, "Agafi this and go back to doing it again. Instead, he presents us with this war, with this idea that they have totally failed to defend only a language, the castle, and to consider any catalan foment action as an attack. And, on the other hand, they see, for example, any reference to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe for which it does the protection and promotion of languages such as now Catalan, Galician or Basque. The Spanish State fully subscribed and ratified this letter in 2001, and since then what it has done is not compliment it, and that is why it has been notified a few times. On the other hand, the Council of Europe has never gathered any time to the linguistic rights for what it does to the use of the castle in Catalonia. Nor do they import attacks from the public institutions, the last, from the Supreme Court, to the Catalan language unit, a purely political denial of what makes more than a century that tells the whole of international philology. Then I'll explain a story about it. Now I'm going to finish filling your squid. Then they're superheroes to protect the Catalan sign language. Look, we've talked to important entities, and they've recommended that we reject everything they're proposing, or because it's already done, because the Catalan sign language is well funded, or because you're looking at it quite clearly; that's what we're going to do. But we will also do so out of respect for deaf people, who do not deserve to go over the Catalan Signs Act in a young man wearing the title of this one. They deserve, in any case, a specific motion which is explicitly entitled‘Promoted the Catalan sign language, and which in the first point says, for example, that the Spanish Government completes the third final provision of the State Law 27/2007, of the Spanish sign languages, which says: ‘In particular, the State Administration will help finance the promotion, research and dissemination of the use of the Catalan sign language. As a result, and Mrs Sans said: thirteen years without a single euro. And, finally, the story that I told you, because you also tell us what it's about, if on those who deny that valence, ballet or algueres are Catalan manners or are different languages. Escotti ber: « Signatories of the number of Spanish language and history academies make our opinion known. The Valencian is a dialectal variant of Catalan, that is, of the spoken language in the Balearic Islands, in the French and Spanish Catalonia, in a strip of Aragon, in most of the Valencian Country, in the principality of Andorra and in the Sardinian city of L'Alguer. It is therefore surprising to see this fact publicly questioned. It is culturally aberrant any attempt to dismember the Valencian country from the Catalan cultural idiomatic community. Do you know what year this manifesto is? 1975. And who knows who the signature is? Listen well: Dámaso Alonso, Fernando Lázaro Carreter, Emilio Alarcos Llorach, Vicente Aleixandre, Rafael Lapesa, Camilo José Cela, Pedro Laín Entralgo, Salvador de Madariaga, Antonio Buero Vallejo, Luis Rosales i Miguel Delibes, among others. Do they sound like it? Independenceists? I already know that it is impossible for them to fall from the horse and understand that it is the Catalan language that needs protection, because « own language is the legal term that recognizes that the català is specific to the Catalan Countries, or so, the català is the only one of the more than two hundred languages that are spoken there that singularizes Catalonia, and, as heritage, must be preserved and promoted, and we will do so in spite of you; and know that I have other stories that dismount their fallacies, but we will have to leave it for another occasion. Finally, you have pursued public media for political reasons, you have pursued professionals for your opinions, you have pursued humor, you have consistently failed to respect media directors and the president of the corporation... And today we are presented with this, this child, who already knows what is said in Catalan. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.130.0	Well, in 1984 she said: "War is pau, freedom is slavery. Today we have had a good show of this: for you, the monolingual system is what defends multilingualism. Well, look, I've talked to you about freedom, equality, union and struggle against xenophobia and lynching to working people; and I've done it in Spanish, in Catalan and in the Catalan sign language, because I value languages, all my languages, and I grow in linguistic diversity. And what has been done by most of the deputies who have been through this faristol? To say lies, to say very hard lies, that the president of this Parliament has allowed them; to insult and disrespect, not only to me, but to me, which is the hardest, to the more than 1 million Catalans who voted Ciutadans. And yes, they have insulted and disrespected with a perfect monolingualism, because you want a monolingual Catalonia, and that's why you only speak a language. I have made my defense in three languages, because I grow in multilingualism. Look, for what he does to the papers, he's only presented the Socialist Party papers, and we just couldn't accept one, because the rest, in fact, go in the direction of undermining the rights and freedoms of the citizens, and that, for us, is unnegotiable. And I am very grateful that I am speaking today that there are parties that create division with language when they have literally typed the Spanish word of the Celaá Law. "Tatxar: Is this multilingualism? Expulsion of Spanish from the Law of Education? As the person I have devoted my entire life to teaching and learning languages, as well as Catalan, I am especially grateful for the thought of providing the education system with the necessary resources to ensure that all students take full and equivalent command in Catalan and Spanish. And we said today, that they're vetoing the Spanish of the Education Law. If someone shows me that Torroella de Montgrí students have the same level of Spanish and Catalan with twenty-three hours of Catalan in the week and two hours of Spanish, I accept them, but we are still realists, this is lied: the Catalan education system is monolingual, and we defend multilingualism and the right and freedom of all Catalans to speak the language they want without being insulted, as I have been insulted today in this Parliament! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into presuppositional priorities]] [[302-00255/12]] Keep going. The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on the presuppositional priorities presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.132.0	MPs, MPs, these days we are feeling some representatives of the Government saying that the response to the crisis of the Covid is a battle; we agree, and we can say firmly, and we are not deeply convinced, that this battle to emerge from a crisis that brings destabilizing visions, salvation and economy (removing from you) we will only win if we face it with the country. Now, what we do think is that the country in which you live does not gather people to the country in which the working people live. (Whispering) I'm sorry, they're annoying me, they're deconcentrating me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.133.0	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Congresswoman, you're right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.134.0	Thank you. Today there is a country that needs public services, a country that is taken for the morning and that knows that without public transport with a reasonable and accessible frequency for everyone will not be able to arrive at the hour at work, and, what is worse, will not be able to arrive with guarantees not to be infected by Covid. It is the same country that carries and lifts the blinds of small trades and that trembles because it knows that the own telenews where a message from this government appears with another restriction that does not come accompanied by a measure of support will be a step closer to absolute ruin, a step closer to finally lowering the blind. It is the same country that needs a strong public sanitation, because it may expect an operation on a waiting list, because it knows that a CAP and its workers with dignity conditions is the best guarantee to keep their people well-attended. It is the same country that knows that a residence under public control is a guarantee of transparency and quality, and that there is no one rich in lowering the costs of the cure of our great people or the precariousness of the workers. It is the same country that knows that the public school must have the resources to respond to the needs of its children, parents and mothers, society. We are a country that should listen much more to the educational community. It is the same country that knows that culture supports people in times of uncertainty, and knows that without public support the heel does not rise, the concert is not done or the exhibition does not work, and therefore its people do not work. That you don't do it for culture; this country needs it, it's a tool of social cohesion and transformation. A country that today knows that if it faces a denunciation tomorrow morning, it needs company from the housing collectivities that sit at the door to defend its ways, even though they will probably be vexed, denounced and beaten and humiliated without measure for a police task that you are leading. Nothing that can't cope with solidarity, mutual support and community networks. The best of a country is its people. Today these people need answers. But you need to be aware of who we have in front, in front, in front, in front of the other band and in front of us. It's not just a virus, before there's a minority that gets rich at the expense of most people's needs. There's the tent of the totxo, the funnels turn into carousels that get millions of euros of benefits from a right as funanmental as it is to hold a footstool. Endesa and Natural Gas multiply benefits as they continue to cut the light and gas, ignoring any public demands, any people need. There is still, despite the emergence generated by Covid, a bill of EUR 47_million is passed on to us for something as basic and essential as health care. There is who earns 18_million euros, like Ferrovial, to do what would make public sanitation even better: the tracking and follow-up of Covid's cases. Endesa guanya 1,500_million euros from generation to September. An increase of more than 700_per_cent compared to 176_million euros in the same period of the previous fiscal year. When we say this crisis is paid by the rich, the rich are Endesa and Ferrovial. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Today you can choose – president, vaig endant –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.135.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.136.0	...a flood of paths. To stand next to people, their needs and expectations, to open a window of hope, present and future is at their hands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.138.0	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, Mrs. Sirvent, we are talking, indeed, about the same country, about the same citizens. I don't know if your young man—now we'll talk about it—was missing this language, let's just say, between trembling and catastrophic that you just enunciated, using. But I repeat this: we are talking about the same country, the same people and, in the background, we are talking about the same concerns, the same concerns and the same way to focus the gravity of the current situation. This motion, in its literality, effectively offers us an exhibition of to what extent we can share, precisely, analysis and diagnosis of the situation we live in and of the response strategy that we need to know how to concretely and apply. Naturally, there are differences, naturally, that there is an explicit difference of points of view on the content, for example, of what is meant by transformation, which is not a concept, neither naive nor harmless. But there is also an obvious ability, and we have demonstrated, to look for and find points of approximation and tangible political agreements, which is what we have done in this young man's work. Certainly, we find signs of their distance and institutional responsibility with which we address the same issues. It is logical that different approaches and accents appear between the demanding look – and today, with this addition of the language that you have used..., the look demands, I say, of a parliamentary group of radical and progressive definition and the look of the equally progressive and transformative group that assumes until the last consequences, every day, every moment, in every sense, the responsibility to govern our country at a time of great complexity and demand. In a way, the vote will express the limits, and also the possibilities of working together, among our respective political forces in the immediate future of our country, which is what seems to me to be of equal concern to us. And we will express coincidences, many; questions still open, some; and some contradictions, more recently, in this case. In any case, I tell you that it seems like a good starting point to address – constructively, if you want – the new political stage that we are about to open in Catalonia. We have this attitude, we keep it and we keep it. We are in front of the second wave of the pandemic with just forces in many ways, with the legitimately tired people of the effort they have given. And that's what we're trying to approach, save lives. What does this government do, what is it? Save lives and save the basic dignity and equity of workers and workers, of autonomists, entrepreneurs, merchants, restorers, artists, creators, of all. This is what we're doing, this is what we're doing, because this is the basic requirement of the present we live in. And that's why decrees are passed that avoid, if the courts apply it properly, family nouns. And that's why she has the help of the businesses and the autonomies that are going through it badly. That's why we're saving life and, at the same time, setting the right compensations. And that is why, effectively, we need structural changes and tools to fight, for example, against the terrible data of youth that still characterize us. It is our obligation, indeed, to take immediate, urgent and permanent action. But it's just as urgent – I think that we agree – to start deciding how to reverse, how exactly we transform structural elements of our economy and our social model. And that's why today is our obligation, too, to build trust, to work because no one feels desperate or unlucky. And also, for sure, and tremendism does not help in this sense, because the extreme right has no room for action, and that citizenship makes it clear that a free, fair, social and feminist and green republic is also the best solution and the best future to fight this crisis and any other that can come. Vice-President Aragones reminds us of these days; he says, literally: "Our obligation is to anticipate the evolution of the pandemic and the steps must be taken to think about life and salvation and the rapid social and economic recovery; and he also says: "In the face of difficulties, individual action and collective consciousness. It seems to me a cry perfectly suited to our situation. It is, therefore, with this attitude and with this will that we will vote in favour of the great majority of the points of this young man and we will vote conscious of the fact that we are talking about supply, consumption, housing, sensellarism, healing to aging, etcetera. And we appreciate your willingness, sir, to work and accept the items and transactions that we have achieved. And, obviously, we will not vote for the whole motion, because there are some aspects in which we will abstain and vote against it by conviction or, to a good extent, because there are issues that are already being addressed and dealt with with with appropriate instruments. An example of this would be the case of guaranteed income from citizenship, where we are effectively already focused, and I think we will also come to an agreement with this. It's a time of political complexity, Mrs. Sirvent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.139.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.140.0	...of economic and social difficulty. Let's face them as far as possible together, without big skirmishes and without falling into the head of catastrophe. It's time for responsibility and solvency, not demagogies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.141.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.142.0	...or populism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.143.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.144.0	This country, this company has enough stock to do it and we will do it. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.146.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President; good morning, deputies, deputies. In this case, following the line of the company Maragall, with whom we have been able to negotiate papers with the proposing group, we thank the Subgroup of the CUP and Mary for accepting some of the papers presented, which allows us to support thirteen points and two abstentions in this young man, which also follows this line that we are in the same vessel. We have to save a society, we have to save a country, we have to save people, which is the important thing about our home. And sometimes there are lots of words or ways to focus on certain things that don't allow us to support it, because sometimes we also have responsibility for supporting a government. And, therefore, with some limitations or, sometimes, with commitments that can be made based on responsibility and what you can do and not deceive the same people either. Maria Sirvent, the Member of Parliament, said that we have before us a whole set of structures that try to juxtapose or turn around at these times. I would also add, even though you do repeat me, that we also have a state before us, a state that unfortunately also acts as a pacifier, a pacifier of the fiscal recaptancy of Catalonia. I said this to the last intervention fifteen days ago: the State collects 47,000_millions of tax in Catalonia; at the time of making them in the form of reversal, in the form of services, they do not arrive in the same proportion. They do not arrive in the same proportion for what it does to the people of Catalonia, for what it does to the GDP of Catalonia or for what it does to the proportion of taxation with Catalonia. And, therefore, we are in a complex situation. We have a government to which we support, to which the people, the citizenry we demand answers as to state, answers and be on the side and help the citizenry as if we were a state, but, in change, the level of resources or, quite simply, the level of legislative capacity does not correspond to this level of demand, or, to that end, I would say, the level of self-responsibility that the same government has and the parties that we support the government. The last steps taken are an example, aren't they? Legislation before an alarm situation, but we do not have the capacity, from a tax or fiscal point of view, to help companies to which they are closed. And, therefore, we are, in a certain way, therefore, without the total capacity to deal fully with a responsibility, on the part of the Government, to the citizen, who 'asks. And, therefore, I believe that this also needs to be repeated, because in this case we are demanding a lot of commitments and a lot of actions and a lot of resources, with which we would agree, but unfortunately, we don't all have them, do we? Therefore, in this sense, therefore, we appreciate this ability to arrive at exams. And let me also comment on two or three of these situations. For one thing, the issue of food distribution and promoting the social economy. It's already been done, and the Agriculture Department has agreed with all the small producers in our country to be able to get all the surpluses, right, to the whole social economy, isn't it? We're also talking about business and trade and sector reactivation. It has also been done from the Department of Enterprise and the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families with their own names, but also with the trade sector, with the craft and fashion sector, with the sector also just now of the aesthetics and enterprises that have had to close, with the inn; it is being done. Would we like to do more? Well, I'm sure of it. We're short of resources? Well, I'm sure of it. But the action was there. Therefore, different programs aim to help all of these sectors directly affected by these alarm locks. As we say before, too, with the autonomous people, with the basic sub-administrations, with the professionals of culture or with the Work and Training program, with 15_million euros, right? Another important issue is the question of the moratorium that we are also asked for as a universal subject for which it makes sub-administrations and lloger. There is already a decree on the subject that prohibits the cutting of sub-administrations and is all the more – above all, with the state of alarm that was produced in March – on the subject of loggers. At this point, the same state regulation doesn't allow us to do more, even if we want to. There is also some issue that we might agree with, but for example, they say to us: « The cent_per_cent of public transport in peak hours; it is already being done. Could it do more? Obviously, if we had a double way to Vic and Ripoll, then we could put in more trains, but Adif's infrastructure, which doesn't reverse it. And if we had, surely, more economic capacity, we could put in more media. Sometimes they don't just depend on the will, they depend on the infrastructure we don't manage, do they? And finally, the issue of internationalization with point 7, which we cannot also vote in favour. They sign that internationalization is fa about precarious wages. We don't totally agree. In fact, we do not agree, because it is done on the basis of technology, on exports of technological component, on biotechnology, for example. And all this is not done on the basis of basic wages, but with added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Martí Pachamé has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.148.0	President, President in office, deputies, deputies, various considerations. First of all, the stranger for the general petition she made us, asking for the approval of two decrees of the law. The decrees you, as you know, are an extraordinary object and urgent need, right? And I will not deny that there were points in his motion that could be accepted his urgency, and therefore would justify his request to approve decrees, but the vast majority of his petitions can be processed by non-urgent procedures, which demonstrates a clear lack of rigour on the part of his group, as well as a clearly electoral interest – a fact that they have rectified, in this respect. I will comment briefly, because there are many, the points that they present to us. The local character of the first point, of the purchases to supply food, is not strictly necessary, since, since they are local does not predetermine that they are the best or the most adjunct to each of the possible alternatives that the Administration has. In order to over-promote consumption in establishments and proximity trades, provided that it is in compliance with market standards. We do not think that the Administration, at a time like the present, should discriminate against aid to companies that have social and environmental returns. We're at some point complicated enough to discriminate against this guy. With regard to the moratorium on the payment of the lodgers of the establishments that have been obliged to close or reduce their outflow, our position is well known: okay, but there is no need to penalise one sector in order to favour another. It's not a matter of dispensing between agents, we ask for sacrifices from tenants and tenants. Here what has not made any sacrifices is the Government, which, in the end, should set an example in this sense. The last point in the first part is what we had left most. Truth is, you never thought that you wanted to create a public Amazon, so it was revolutionary – I don't know if you would see it all well in Marx or Mao – I have to confess, I was totally surprised. With regard to the second group of proposals, we are concerned about the lack of lines proposed to us. The first point of this group is about allocating resources for the reuse of real estate. We don't know if they're referring to buying private buildings that have temporarily been empty or what, exactly. Talking about "reuse" seems that it could only affect public buildings. On the following three points, we doubt that they can bring to an end without a consensus between the parties involved, rather than not hearing exactly what they refer to when they speak of 'alternative forms of private property, above all coming from their parliamentary group. Not to mention the frequency of public transport. We don't understand how, they see contagious taxes in places where there are a lot of people, and they see how they work in other sectors, such as restoration, they haven't acted more decisively in a long time. With regard to his petition, which is not new, about basic income enough and universal, we feel it, but we disagree. For a very simple reason: they treat just like what's different. There is no proportional criterion for giving this income, treat the rich and the poor alike. We do not understand that you should be given, for example, an income to which you always quote, to Mr Florentino. No problem respects the last point of the second group. With regard to the third group of requests to the Government, to say that the citizens and the institutions representing them should be heard, I would just lack – in fact, it is our job. The fourth group... well, I guess we're not in favor. He'll probably say I'm a neo-liberal and just like that, and the fact is that creating a public bank is not the best way to get economic sovereignty. First, and I'm sorry to say, there is no one in the world that will rise economically; there is no such thing as that in the real world. Second, that economic sovereignty would be that of a country that you did not have to obtain financing. This means not generating public deficit a year later, and therefore not having a mountain of debt on the shoulders. The management of the government, instead of reducing the debt during the years of growth, has increased it – for you, I suppose they have still remained short. By chance, the umbrella of the Kingdom of Spain and the European Central Bank makes it possible for our community not to fail. And, please, don't go over the issue of the deficit – they've already done it – nor that it's Madrid's fault – they've done it – they're excuses for a bad payer. The fifth point is for his own people. If we want businesses to invest in Catalonia, we would do better to ensure that there will be legal certainty and that there will be no tax inferno. Another shot – without offending – small of the same. Big business is very easy: they just have to change their tax domicile – it's very complicated to put doors to the camp. We shall not vote in favour either. We have always believed that the best form and most effective is public-private collaboration and escape from assembly rules – business management has nothing to do with faculty assemblies. The set and then we won't vote in favour either. There is nothing to see in the export sector with job insecurity. As they often do, they sweep apples and pears, and for many adjectives that we may not agree to convert Catalonia into a mix between the village of Asterix and a koljós. Experiments, with litin water. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Marta Moreta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.150.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, well, this young man exposes a wide range of initiatives that touch various themes, passing from housing – it has been discussed here – economics, proximity products... And I would like to make my intervention, precisely, speaking of proximity products, which have not been discussed. I would like to reflect on, precisely, the proximity products. Maybe we should put the emphasis not so much on the criteria in which way we should boost the proximity products, but also focus on quality, huh? , the added value of these products, not so much if they are more or less ecological, but more quality; we think it's important. Therefore, we should first establish clear criteria of proximity and quality, both things. This is why we must also look at traceability: it is important to know from what point of view the product, which is indicated by the label, which explains the product information, where it has occurred, which plant protection products have been used, which transport has been used. And, obviously, we also need to focus on work places so that there was no type of labour exploitation. And the company that I produced the products would also have to keep in mind that they have equal plans. But we don't just focus on co-operativeism or eco-products, because we can find ourselves with eco-products that are less secure and less good or, on the contrary, we can find products that have very good quality. Therefore, we understand that the criteria for the public purchase of the generality's food and the services should also enhance quality fruit and vegetables, and also meat. Carn because it produces great quality carnage, and what you need to know is how many days you can eat carnage and what kind of carnage you can eat. On the other hand, the motion also places emphasis on facilitating the reduction of the payment of the logger of the establishments that have been forced to lock because of the measures promoted by the government to face the Covid. In fact, here they came to a deal with the government, and so we'll give it support. In point 2 ask for resources to combat sensellarism, promote, together with local administrations, the reuse of immovables that have been emptied as a result of the Covid. Initially, they called for a structural fund to combat sensillarism, which we consider to be a good proposal and now it has been very diluted with this deal they have made with the government, and, therefore, well, we do not see it very clearly. Caldria, in addition, that the government has a strategy for the phenomenon of sensellarism that goes beyond the Covid. And at these times it is possible to have the necessary residential resources for homeless people, but also the accompanying resources, because in most cases people who are in this situation do not only need a basement. To announce that at this point we will also give support. And we do not share the literality of the point calling for the prohibition of the size of the sub-administration of the basic services, the moratorium on the payment of the logger and mortgage loans and the sub-administrations linked to the usual housing. Why do we ask ourselves: if someone has a good son per month and is to date, you are the parent who would also have done a moratorium on the payment of the lodger or mortgage? We've got a little bit of doubt left. Because it would have to discriminate better, because the situation of precariousness would pass for the owner, that it may need the income of the logger to live. What's more, the government once again opened the deadline to submit requests for help to the Covid's victims. We will also vote against paragraph b of paragraph 2, because we are working on a bill on the subject of the Sareb. We will give support to the increase in the frequency of public transport at hours of maximum influx, to increase inspections at work centres to control the completion of unitary measures or to strengthen and diagnose healing, aging and addiction work. And, of course, we will also support the fact that the declaration of culture is as essential as it is, only in all the measures that obviously involve restrictions with the aim of guaranteeing access to culture and cultural rights to the citizenry would be lacking. And it is obvious that we will also give support and gather to listen to all the municipalities, which are the ones who know better the needs of the territory. And I'd leave it here, 'cause the five minutes don't give to talk about all the points in the room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.152.0	Well, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pueblo, we will give support to the movement. And I think this young man makes a reality obvious that we've been reporting for weeks now, right? , what is it that the Government of the Generality announces restrictive measures, is to say, demands efforts to the citizenry, many times with contradictory and chaotic announcements, fruit also of the bars that they have in the if of the Government, but is not fan at the same time, or does not apply at the same time, those economic aid measures that many sectors need and that good part, in this case, of the backward motion, right? In fact, what we don't understand is why the Catalan government is spending so little, so late and so badly. In fact, the new Economic Advisor, Mr. Tremosa, explained the other day that, for example, in Switzerland, and posed it as an example, when an autonomist has to claim help at the same time as a restriction applies, a web page opens and on the same day he has already taken the help. I suppose I didn't do it as a criticism of the Spanish State – well, I'm not convinced, in this case – but I shouldn't see what happens in the case of the Catalan Government, because if we talk, for example, about helping the catering sector, they practically arrived fifteen days later, with the web collapsed and only with 1,500_euros, that they will explain to me if a person..., that I think that as the hospitality and catering sector is a very important sector in Catalonia... Many of us have family and friends who have a business that explain how they feel absolutely helpless, that with a help of 1,500_euros cannot pay the suppliers, they can't pay the logger, they can't pay, until all of them, the workers, and that, more than at the very latest, two weeks ago? This restriction. I also think that..., and that's something we don't understand, because it's spending so little. In addition, recycling economic measures that were already on the assumption. That is to say, for example, this very week – and I also denounced it – I wanted to ask the advisor – in this case yes – real Economy, but in any case, Mrs Budó answered me. He explained that there was a EUR 102_million package for social aid. In practice, most of these measures are recycled measures, i.e., 40_million for guaranteed income, which was already the increase in the assumption of this year 2020; for example, 35_million euros in support, in this case, for example, of everything you have to see with the social sector, for example, everything you have to see with the residency rates, 35_million euros that were already in the assumptions. Therefore, I believe that in the end there is a will to try to sell measures, but that these measures will not arrive, or will not be tangible, because they are really no more resources, we are not providing more resources, are they not? And what we don't understand is, too, in a context in which the deficit targets have been suspected, which has been subject to the expenditure rule, we don't understand why the vice president has the stuck fixture and has the fixture, in this case, too, I would say, therefore, withhold everything that is the amount of expenditure that they should be putting out all the departments of the Generality. Besides, I also think we should start updating the argumentary, to the band that we could have a long debate about the tax deficit. In fact, there is some head economist of his, who is Mr Mas-Colell, who questions the xifra of this €16,000_million – I would say that an economist of reference of some Members and some Members, after all, of different parliamentary groups. But in any case, the argument that no resources are coming from the State, I think we should start updating it. I say this because I, who have had a relationship with the Department of Economics, the majority of requests made by the Department of Economics have been from the table on behalf of the Government of the State. He asked for a Covid fund: 3,200_million euros passed to lost fund to the Generalitat without any type of conditionality. A new Covid fund for the next year. The recommended deficit target, from 2.2 to 2021... this is more than €5,000_million, plus, with the compromise that will be financed if there is an excess of deficit on the part of the State, is to say, only recommended. Value transfers from the Generality's financing system as if there had been no drop in inputs. Therefore, I believe that this argument that the State leaves the autonomy behind, so this certainly had to be seen with the Covenants of the Majestic of Convergence and the People's Party. I also say this because in the general assumptions of the State, and it is an element that I also think is worth highlighting, you say that not above the reversal to 18_per_cent. We could discuss the xifra, but it's the same, I'm left with 16.5_per_cent. It's the highest cipher of the last twenty-five years. When the PP and Convergence agreed on the fish in the hole and those supercords that agreed between the Catalan right, it did not reach the 7_percent of the investment in Catalonia. Therefore, update the argumentaries, because in the end they also endure a surprise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.154.0	Thank you. Well, it's not the first time that they've passed them, to the company of the CUP, and I suppose it's absolutely involuntary, that every now and then the motions of clear inspiration' Trumpian. In fact, if we look at the bet of Donald Trump's economic program, which is basically replacing the economy of the free global market for something more protectionist, it speaks, by chance of life, of co-operativeism, authority and food self-sufficiency, which are elements that arise from the motion presented by the CUP. Of course, it's also the economic program that José Antonio Primo de Rivera used to serve the Falange, but that's another story, I don't want you comparing them to anyone else, but that's exactly how it is. Therefore, at points 4, 5, 6 and 7, which have this inspiration to transform the world and change the production system, we will vote no. We will vote that yes in a few points much more concrete, that I believe they are – as I should be a young man, before we explained it – the number 3, of the paper of the municipalities in this crisis; the 8, the support to culture; the 1.d, of support to the small trade of proximity; the 2.e, of improving public transport, or the 2.h, of cure of the aging. And we will abstain from points 1 and 2, except for the exceptions, it is worth the redundancy, which I have just done, because we consider that, even if they make good intentions, they always end up doing the same, that it is to put all responsibility for austerity and support in private, and never do it in the field of public administration. That is to say, the Administration has obligations to guarantee rights, no doubt, but after the responsibility to complete this obligation of the Administration will always have to keep the private. No, it's gonna have to be shared, at least. So we think that in these points you always put it, exclusively, in private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a new turn on the deputy Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.156.0	Yes, quickly, to celebrate the consensus that this young man has produced. This Parliament approves the opening of a line of aid to small businesses, businesses, local authorities, facilitating the reduction of the payment of the logger, allocating resources to combat sensillarism, increasing resources for the rehabilitation of the public housing park and increasing this park. We also approve a point to increase inspections at the work centers, to strengthen and dignify the healing tasks, which have been so important in this situation of health emergency. It has also been approved to carry out a diagnosis of the needs of the territory together with the municipalities. We've also approved, or will approve, a point about urging the Spanish government to make a tax, a Covid tax, that went to large companies. But we also approved that the government explore, as far as it can get, a new taxable fact, a new tax for the purpose of redistributing wealth at these times. And we will also approve the declaration of culture as essential, and therefore celebrate all these points. We understand and understand, we have empathy with the difficulty of governing at these times, we know that these are difficult situations, and that the emotional state of the people has been very linked to the material conditions of life. Precisely because of this we are holding hands, we propose measures, measures that must be implemented urgently, that may not transform society, but that are necessary in the air and here because the working people of our country can continue enjoying worthy lives.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the proposed law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being referred to the Congress of Deputies]] [[302-00256/12]] After this debate, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the proposed law on the coordination of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being submitted to the Congress of Deputies, a motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... thanks in particular to the chamber servants, who today have been especially helpful to me. We present this motion following the inquiry that we made to the Government on the proposed law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue systems, which was presented to the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, with the main objective of protecting the system, the Catalan model of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services. Because, as has already been demonstrated and demonstrated every day, it's a system of success and international recognition... and the experience of more than forty years, that swallows it. It is, therefore, a system that means that we have full competence in this management of emergency and rescue services, an exclusive competence established in the framework of the Statute of Autonomy and exercised through Law 5/1994. Therefore, the one who proposes this proposal for law, or at least what you say in your initial text, supposes a flagrant invasion of the powers of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and we understand that any group of this chamber would support a Spanish law that supposes an interference and, therefore, a... well, they say "recentralisation, when what is an invasion of powers in the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy." Therefore, we strongly and categorically condemn any attempt to dismantle the Catalan model of fire prevention and rescue. Couldn't be any other way, huh? We want to demonstrate our absolute support and recognition of the work well done by the Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia, but also by the Bombers of Catalonia, which, as we have already explained, there are not only Bombers of Catalonia that will work, but there are also volunteer bombers. And we recognize them, because this is a peculiarity of the Catalan system. The Catalan system has a network of more than eighty volunteer firefighter parks in Catalonia that are integrated into the system. There are also the company firefighters, the firefighters of the Port of Barcelona. And this proposal of law, made at six-hundred miles away from Catalonia and without consulting interested parties or unions, did not take into account these particularities. The band to recognize this excellent professional pocket, let me say that from here I send strength to all those aspiring to the Bomber bodies who are now doing the tests, have done the physical tests and are doing the theoretical tests of the opposition, of this opposition, which have also been affected by the Covid. Therefore, strength and strength. Let's hope it doesn't affect the results of the candidates, this calendar transfers. We are aware that both the bodies of the Bombers of the Government of Catalonia and the rest of the bodies and dependencies of the Catalan prevention system and emergencies are vulnerable if the strategic plans are not properly implemented and if the parties provided for in the assumptions are not well reversed. For this reason, to the band of lamenting once again the historical fiscal deficit that we carry to Catalonia, we also ask the Government of the Generality to prioritize the compliment of the Strategic Plan 2017-2022 of the Project Bombers 2025, as well as the updating of the Catalan system of emergencies by means of a great country agreement and, finally, with the new law that we have already announced to the inquiry that it is working, because we need to count on an updated model, appropriate to our risks, to the new emergences and conditions of professional and voluntary staff work as they deserve. And when we talk about the work and the professionals who are part of these Bombers and Emergencies bodies, I want to make an incisive effort to promote the incorporation of women into Bombers' bodies. Women can and we want to be present in all areas of work, and this is no exception. Therefore, we want to give support to the potential insertion of firefighters into Bombers' bodies. And, certainly, we want to give support, from Junts for Catalonia, to the collection of Fires for the dignity of the woman, firefighters from Barcelona who were spied on by a company while they went to the dressing rooms, and that in the judgment of the case, feeling fruit of a patriarchal judicial system..., in this judgment does not depart from this man of the Fire Cos. So, all of our support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, Mr Marc Parés has now returned on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.160.0	Well, good morning again, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, Ms. Madaula, you were beginning your inquiry to the Home Councilor in the last full reference to Republican governments in exile and caricaturizing Spanish republicanism tell us that it was more Spanish than republican. Let me begin my intervention with another historical look – humbly, because I know you're a doctor in history. Miri, it is certain that the Constitution of the Second Republic abandoned the federalist plot, which did have the draft constitution of the First Republic of 1873. But it is also true, and this you tend to forget, that there is a thread in the history of Spain and Catalonia that starts from a multi-national conception of the State, and that drink of a similar federalism and built from below, a thread on "Sobrianism" and "Federalism" are not antagonistic or counterposed concepts, but are the essence of the same project. It is the republical federalism of Pi and Margall, when he said to us: "Between the monarchy and the republic, I will choose the republic. Between the unitary republic and the federation, I will opt for the federation. It is also the federalism of Valentí Almirall, which speaks to us of a compost state, formed by various sovereign states, are the sovereignty of the private states the original, and that of the joint, the delegate. It is the republicanism that reappears years later and is material in the Pact of Sant Sebastià of 1930, the same republicanism that embraces President Macià on April 14, when he proclaims the Catalan State within the federation of Iberian republics, and that of President Company on October 34, when he proclaims the Catalan State in the mark of a Spanish federal republic. In the words of the historian and friend Xavier Domènech, this is also the thread of the Spanish policies of the left, which see in the alliance with Catalanism the possibility of "enhancing a transformation of Spain to settle a progressive majority. Pi and Margall, Salmerón, Azaña and, in the present, Pablo Iglesias, they all make this bet very clearly, understand that Spain will only be able to advance if Catalonia advances. And we add: Catalonia will only advance if together we move Spain towards a truly plurinational state model. And this is also the republicanism of Frederica Montseny, who in 1936 became the Prime Minister of the Government, of the Government of the Republic, since we applied confederal principles in his Ministry of Health, with sanitary committees, with municipal, regional and regional links. We ask them not to forget this thread, since it is here where there is the way of solution, in this door locked in different moments of history that we can reopen to build a new future for Spain and Catalonia. It is from this thread that we will vote in favour of all the points of your young lady, and we would sincerely like to thank Mrs Madaula for her willingness to agree with the points that we have put forward. We defend that Catalonia has and must continue to have a model similar to Bombers, Emergencies and Civil Protection, recognize and aggravate deeply, as it could not otherwise be, the work that all its objects do – professional and voluntary. We understand that for the rest of the State there may be other territories that require a law of impulse and coordination, such as that which is being dealt with at the Congress of Deputies, and precisely with the will to combine these two realities, we are the hand, as the Councillor asked us the other day, together with the forces of this chamber to modify the law's proposal in the parliamentary process, and to ensure that it is preserved, that it protects the model that we have in Catalonia. Now, at the same time I have to say to you – and this is a good part of the feeling of our reviews, which you have explained, in fact –: we believe that the Government of the Generality must exercise these skills, and it must face up to the investment deficits that the Catalan Emergence System has had in the past two years, and that it must review the model. He's not a perfect model. The same syndic of Greuges, in his report of the year 2018, warned of all the deficiencies and shortcomings that today has our Catalan model of emergencies. And, therefore, I can review it, I can reformulate it, and I can do it from the consensus, and this is what we propose in our papers: reformulate the Catalan system of emergencies to dignify the working conditions of your firefighters, both professional and volunteer, to increase the presence of women in the body, as you yourself said. And for all this they call resources, as a political will and as a new Catalan legal framework that replaced the current legislative framework, which is from the 1990s. In all this we agree, but all this was not, in his own case, and therefore we believe that we should put it, because we must not escape the responsibilities that we have with the Government of Catalonia to deal with this situation. And the reality is that you've spent three years in the government doing all these things, and now we're through with a legislature. A legislature that ends and that's all that's happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Núria Picas, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.162.0	Good morning, president, deputies, deputies, Aurora – I hope you have a good recovery. Well, today it's up to us to defend the system of emergencies, our emergencies to a proposal of law that we are up from Madrid, and that what they claim is to centralize the system clearly invades the skills of Catalonia's own. A law that when you look at it and you see from it you think: "Where do we come from, that? I, Mr. Parés, don't know each other very well, but I appreciate it, but I'm sure you're going through some embarrassment with this law proposal, because I'd be possessed by chicken hair. A bill of law that they didn't think of as a necklace and that entered all over the school, putting two things on display. One, the incompetence of the Spanish State in matters of security and emergencies, manifesting its total lack of coordination; and two, demonstrating that they have no idea how our system of emergencies works in our country, in Catalonia. So from here on, I'd like to remind you that the Generality Firehouse is a world-wide referent, and it's and it's proven. We have a unique system of emergencies, in fact, it's an international model, a model that is based on the mixed model between volunteer bombers and functional bombers. Your bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a law that goes into the bag, enters through the kitchen, and what you claim is to fuck the competitions of the autonomous communities, and of Catalonia as well. Listen, we already understand that the Spanish bombers have to organize themselves and that they need the politicians there, so they do all the work and deures that they have not done for many years, but not at the expense of dismantling the emergencies of Catalonia, which have been working for many years. And if you, in the Spanish State, have a real chaos, and you don't just coordinate, and your answer is "recently," let's just say no. Because we're going badly, because we all know that this isn't a law to organize, to coordinate, but it's a law to centralize. You want to decide where we have to keep the parks, as is our uniform, of what color must be our trucks, our timetables, the theme of the isocrones, to set an example – which is pathetic, has many contradictions. For example, in the Pyrenees, an extensive territory with a lot of services, now there are three parks. And have you thought about the issue of volunteer bombers, with a long tradition in our country? Currently, we have 1,400 volunteer firefighters in our country in action. And what they're proposing is that you make them work. Are they taking our hair or what? They know that it's completely uneconomical. That didn't go away. And you know what? Co-ordination, if you're looking for co-ordination, if you want, there's no co-ordination, because people are talking and getting along. For example, the Firefighters of the Vall d'Aran meet with the Bombers of France, there is coordination; the Bombers of Pont de Suert meet with the Bombers of the Aragonese Kingdom, the Bombers of Sant Adrià de Besòs, the Bombers of Barcelona, meet with the Bombers of Badalona; there is coordination, however, as I said before, the plumer was seen. And what they're looking for is centralizing: centralizing and dismantling our emergence system. By the way, what are they gonna do about the Barcelona Bombers? Do you believe that the Barcelona Bombers, which was created in 1835, deserve to enter into this legislation? I haven't spoken to her mayor, I don't know if you have. Perhaps the Colau will agree – another topic to consider as well. Let me tell you that you are irresponsible, that you have voted for this law, destroying the work that so many years have cost us to build, and that, moreover, it works. And if you are so federalist and left-wing, and you understand the various national identities and respect the idiosyncrasies of each territory, it is very curious – it is very curious – that who gives support to this law in Madrid following the rancid parties of the right and the ultra-right, such as Vox, such as PP and Ciutadans, that they absolutely import a rave our system of emergencies, and what they want to instrumentalize it to their liking – yes, Mr. Castel, come on, but this is another element for reflection. And that, ladies and gentlemen, in the end and in the end, makes another wave of repression modest, because maybe you don't like it is that this Bomber Things protect us on October U day, and maybe what they would like is that you end up working like the Civil Guard and the National Police, which is where this law went. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not only give support to the movement, but we have entered the exams to demand respect for autonomy and territorial competitions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.163.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.164.0	... to develop our own model of emergencies – and with this I finish, President. Finally, thank the Bomber Cos for the ingenious work, and we will work to keep this thing safe, because, in the end and in the end, it is they who protect us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.166.0	We say the bombers will always be ours. Check out the bombers. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Rialles. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.168.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, by all accounts, is not right; this is to begin with. But I will also tell you that this young lady, Mrs Madaula, looks more like a letter to the King, made on the 8th of January, two days after it passed. You have had the first responsibility – and when you say, your parliamentary group and others who cry a lot from here – but when it comes to voting the right way, both in this House and in committee, the vote is contrary to what you come to express in criticism. That said, as I said, a letter to the King out of time; it is necessary that this reminders of this letter also carry it to you if you have some type of responsibility at the beginning of a proper legislature, because there would be a whole legislature to be able to make it a possible reality, and a reality that I tell you would applaud the collection, both professional and voluntary. That said, it's a young man where I could see "support," "recognition," "emphasize, "congratulate... Do you know what that's like? As I said a while ago: collecting those initials that give rise to problems, contemplating those initials as priorities when the object claims it and the collection demands it, and also having the primary responsibility, that it is that it is placed in a presuppositional game to give it a living. Meanwhile, you do not do this, while you continue to come here, in this way, as this opportunistic young man now, at a time when this young man has no recourse; and you know it. That said, there's a contradiction in many respects, as I gave it a while ago. Oblivious bombs and volunteers, left to the stand in many moments – and we all remember the altercations at the door of this very Parliament; you will remember that. When these collections, in a way, are properly removed from a department, that does not happen. That said... a shame, when we see these images, and then a government that doesn't know how to bring the right solutions, huh? You talk to one of the successful models or interpret it as such; sometimes it's the frail model behind the fractus, as you could see. And that's what I gave him: assumptions, assumptions and problems. In short, there are groups that have proved to be learned in the management of a era, a era that after it seems that some – lately, we see in the press – were more interested in how they coordinated other things that seem very negative for what the Catalan era has been, and they also make us wonder if many of those things that we lack today from different collections do not have them because some have taken them warm and to the butxaca. With respect to the Catalan era; with respect to its management; with respect to the needs and to turn them, as I said, into priorities; with respect to the reversal of a premise, and with respect to the collection – to the collection. This young man, with the time to turn it into reality, as I said... Miri, to carry this young man as they have brought us, let's say it: the power they do pedagogy with some who want to spend 18_million euros on the Catalan NASA, because with 18_million euros I assure you that the collections of the Department of Interior would not go through any hardship, and we have the advisor here, which I could almost see, from all the time there are petitions. That is why you do not understand that the State – which this General is not part of – has powers in the field of coordination between directives and general principles when we speak in the field of civil protection, that is, of firefighters, derived from its exclusive competence in the field of public security; and that is very easy to hear, and some should not be seen here after fantasies. What they don't seem to understand here is the principle of 'equality of all citizens viscose on viscose. To you the most important, sometimes, it seems, the privileges of political class and manage or mismanage the mismanagement, that end up providing the appropriate solutions to the collectius. Miri, the only one they're trying to do is improve a service that makes water, that has made water, that lacks...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.169.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.170.0	... inversion to provide solutions – and I finish, President. We will vote in favour of many points of this young man, who has been enriched by other parliamentary groups, because his original left much to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament now has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.172.0	Thank you. Good noon, and I don't know if it's too late. Counsellor, Members, Members, President, interesting debate, certainly. I must acknowledge that I have relegated to the intervention made by Mrs Madaula in the presentation of the inquiry, I have listened with great interest to the words of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú May. I would tell you that sometimes things are more meaningful. You can't shoot before the wound, you can't hurt your conscience, you can't use it politically, Mrs. Picas – or you can use it politically. I believe that if you read, the same as I did, not just the law, but the interventions that were produced at the Congress of Deputies of this proposal presented for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United States We can, explains the reasons and explains an accident of a bomber outside their demarcation and, therefore, the reasons that carry many things. Explains a reality. That's true, it leaves other realities. And it also explains a reality of 134 servicemen of different legal forms depending on different administrations and sets a pattern. I don't see it that bad. In any case, I can see mistakes, I can see administrative, political mistakes, but I also see some... I see many possibilities. And reading some interventions at the Congress of Deputies, so, for example, the spokesman for the PSOE carrying this theme, said, "Look, we're at the heart of the process. Now is the time to propose appearances and presentations to introduce better and better exceptions. And then all of you say, "We all have to say the same thing to the Congress of Deputies. Vice-President Aragonès said yesterday: "Don't ask us all to say the same thing to the Congress of Deputies because everyone has parliamentary groups and everyone has ideology and knows exactly what they have to say. But when it matters, we all have to be a people. And he's also talking about respecting the competition marks, that if there were any inspiring principles, it's the will for coordination and cooperation mechanisms. Therefore, I believe that you can take things and do all the things or, at the very least, make the clear point of excluding Catalonia and present appearances to explain who our model is. Miri, we do respect the Statute of Catalonia – always, not when they are interested, Mrs Madaula – we tell him to respect the competences contemplated by the Statute, eh? , on civil protection and on fire extinguishment. And what we know and know is that there's a good model and a model that we've put out since Law 5/1994. I have not entertained myself to count it, because I have read many interventions, but I am convinced that if I count the years that Convergence, Together for the Yes and Together for Catalonia to the Councillor of the Interior, there are enough left for them to have been able to make the rule of the law, and it is not yet done. Or that I am told a law in time of reckoning when not one will make this department during this whole legislature or the previous one, does not cease to be very curious. Look, I'm a little bit of a success model. I'm a girl from success models of health, and I'm very good at it, and from success models of other things. Because being a good model of success has not saved them a bit of the details that have been made in the health system and in the system of emergencies for a couple of years! And with his complicity, because it can't be broken with the whole story, as you mean. And so, listen, I think we have a chance to do a lot of things. We will support it, because we agree and defend the fire-extinguishing service. We defended many of the things that are planted here. We defend the proper model, we defend the competitions of the State and we defend the voluntary model. Also the support for the work they do day by day. But instead of so much love, maybe we're doing something because the hundred and fifty parks have the stuff they need and because the bombers have what they need. And a lot of support for what the tests are doing, but they didn't shoot 44 percent on the street, among other things, for a psycho-technical test that the same Bomber director says isn't good. I mean, in the end, maybe we'll look at all the folds, because that's how I support the master plate, that I support the owner, but we did one that was 16-21, after 17-22, and now we're on 25th. That reforming the bomber system is basically like a xiclet. We move the years to see if that's how we get it. In any case, listen, we defend the model, we defend it wherever we go, but really, neither use politics, nor shoots before the hour, nor bad consciences. We will vote in favour of points 1, 2, 4 and 5, we will abstain at point 3 and ask for a separate vote at the end of point 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.174.0	Yes; President, thank you. From the escó. Look, they made a move to show all the support for the Catalan model of prevention, fire extinguishing and rescue. Look, it's too many years of detail and lack of reversal on the part of the different governments of the Generality, and we also want to say it here today. And, therefore, if you want to show support, you're also doing well to make an effort to reverse these shortcuts and this lack of reversal. They know perfectly well that the Bomber Cos is one of the most esteemed bodies of public servants for its delivery – we have very much in front of us the five firefighters who lost their lives in the fire of Horta de Sant Joan –; for their social commitment, as when 2013 they announced that they would not participate in the denunciation, which is an example! ; for their commitment to the Catalan people and their right to self-determination, as did the October U, and even standing before the police to prevent attacks against voters. This image, together with the cry of "The bombers will always be ours, makes even deeper the link between the different bodies of Bombers and our people. And of course, this young man has also come from a recent law, which proposes Unidad Podemos, which cannot go beyond this social reality. Look, it's not the first time you've been overconfederalism and it's in rhetoric. For example, parliamentary or governmental initiatives of the United States We can: minimally vital inputs, passed over the income systems that already existed in many countries and territories of the Spanish State; the tax on wealth, which did not take into account the property tax that, for example, Catalonia transferred to you; it passed also with the decree I finally fell, on the estalvis of the joints. Look, we don't want to accept this recent offensive, and we're worried that today Catalonia in Comú may not be doing this interview...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.175.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.176.0	... with the Group – I finish, president – of Unions Podemos and explain to them, before their disenfranchisement, so, simply, what is the connection of our people with this thing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.178.0	Excuse me. It's that I don't have the clock, and it's echoing in the microphone. I don't know if they can fix it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.179.0	We'll make it look, Congresswoman. I haven't noticed anything foreign, but, anyway, we'll make it look. Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Mr Serrano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.180.0	Thank you, President. My first words have to be mandatory to express our support for the Fire Department, whether it be officials or volunteers, and, in general, for all personnel in emergency and protection services. They all perform vital tasks in our society that are not always sufficiently recognized by the Administration. Therefore, all those aspects of the motion, with the amendments accepted, aimed at supporting our firefighters will count on our support. Although the proposing group could well have taken advantage of the motion to push for improvements that depend on the Government of the Generalitat, and yet has not, they have remained silent. Improvements since the increase in personnel, improvements in vehicles, equipment. In this sense, he has not taken advantage of the self-government he can exercise in this matter, and yet he has devoted himself to... Because, in the end, it is what seems to be the motion, which is to use the, once again, as an alibi, as an excuse to move the false idea that any initiative that is promoted from the General Courts, be it the political group that is, is an attack on Catalonia's self-government, and that is a false, phony idea. Obviously, initiatives can be improved on many occasions, but there is no predetermined idea that any political initiative that is of the General Courts is to attack Catalonia's self-government; that is not true. And, therefore, the points of the motion that play this game, worth the redundancy, we will not support them, because we, all that are improvements for the Fire Corps, come from here or come from there, we will support them. But any other initiative or reflection aimed at playing with the false idea that any initiative from the General Courts is an attack on Catalonia's self-government we are not going to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a late return to MP Madaula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.182.0	Thank you, President. We were, it's not an attack, we think it's an attack, it's an attack, because if you read the law's proposal, what it does is refocus and try to coordinate from a control center to six-hundred miles. It's a competition invasion, it's not what I make up, it's what I say. For what he does to... well, it's that, Mr. Castel, the motion was not to present better. Clearly, we have said and proposed the issue of the best and that we are following the reform of the law, but the motion was – if they followed the inquiry – to present a motion against this recent law of Madrid. That's why we did this petition that the groups in Catalonia, of the Parliament of Catalonia, don't support us entering our competitions, because you are Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. It's not cursed, Mrs. Escarp, it's not cursed, it's invasion of competition. I say to them again: it is not cursed, we do not see cursed in the law, but it is an invasion of competitions. It's that when you have the opportunity to talk about this multi-national Spain and this diverse Spain and this Spain of Pi and Margall or Valentí Almirall – what's very good, huh? But they're not my referents, because I'm an independentist... When you have the opportunity to assert this magical federalism you say, don't do it – don't do it. Because, obviously, I also looked at the interventions, and the interventions talked about the privatization of a fire park in Castella - La Manxa and Galícia. But it's that it doesn't happen here, that, and here we have a good model, success or failure. We have also said that there is obviously a need to improve, with the help of all the parliamentary groups. And in this I do want to thank the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pos puedo y d'Esquerra Republicana for the papers they have made, because obviously, they improve the text ostensibly. And I think it's that way, together, how we can improve the texts and work together to improve the situation of the Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia since the Parliament of Catalonia. And, therefore, I would like to make you a prec: that those who have now voted here in favor of the Bombers' bodies of the Generalitat de Catalunya do not forget when they have to vote in Madrid, and do not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.183.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.184.0	...as they did with the digital decree, they voted here one thing and in Madrid, another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.185.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.186.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.187.0	Well, this debate is over, there's no point in dealing, this first turn of session. Therefore, we suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.188.0	Well, good afternoon, let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government about the management of prison services during the situation generated by Covid-19]] [[300-00320/12]] And we're doing this with the new order of the day, which is asking the government about the management of prison services during the situation generated by Covid-19. To expose the inquiry, has the word Mr Marc Sanglas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.189.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member will advise, in any case, that we are interested in making this inquiry in two parts. And it would start with this first, claiming that the country's inmate population is about 8,274 people, of whom a 7_per_cent, roughly, are women. Prisons, for their own conditions of confinement, are spaces with a high risk of infection of the Covid-19 and, in this sense, according to the latest available data, indicate that there are now a few hundred and eighty-six internals and eighty-seven functioning that have affected the effects of the infection. And that, in the conjunction of the pandemic, there were 311 inmates, of which 205 already have the high, and 296 will work, of which 209 already have the high. We consider that these data are not high, if we put them in relation to other populations confined in the surrounding countries. And that, therefore, we understand that a good job has been done from the department that you preside over. They believe that there are some elements that make these data possible. First, a prison occupancy index – in the case of Catalonia it is 87_per_cent, roughly, which is like the European average; therefore, we do not have too many prison centers loaded with people –, the application of the open regime and article 86.4 of the prison regulations, the intensification of hygienic measures and the intensification of health measures to prevent the entry of the virus into prison. This is where we want to focus part of our inquiry. This intensification of health measures has meant, in practice, limiting visits, limiting vis-à-vis, limiting internal and internal activities to prisons, confining them to their modules to avoid infection between other modules. They are measures of the utmost necessity to avoid the infection between the people taken, but they still suppose more restrictions for people who already suffer, for their own stay in a prison centre. And, therefore, they suffer from a double confinement. And we would also like to focus on the fact that the traditionally invisible female inmate population is still more punished from this point of view, bearing in mind that, moreover, many creatures are added to it. The Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe and the High Commission for Human Rights of the United Nations, Michelle Bachelet, and the World Health Organization have published a specific guide on the treatment of prisoners and prisoners in prison centres and in which it recommends that states work with non-custodial measures of freedom, in order to make compatible and giving priority to those people with low-risk and – especially vulnerable profiles – giving preference to pregnant women or children, in an effort to make it possible and compatible the containment of the pandemic and the compliment of these penalties. Also in this sense, the high commission is about those people with premeditated pathologies and with crimes not criminalized in international law. In this sense, Mrs. Capella, we would like you to explain to us that, beyond the mechanisms that you have implemented, and that I have mentioned above, if you consider that there are other mechanisms, such as a greater extension of mechanisms of supervised freedom, or of alternative measures, to continue completing. It is obvious that there are things that do not depend on their department, but that you do have the power to push. Have judicial bodies been urged to apply these recommendations from international bodies? Do you think that there are mechanisms such as the compliment of the sentence to private homes or in open law that, in these moments of special restriction of mobility, are good mechanisms to decongest prisons? Who was the reaction of these judicial bodies? What collaboration have you found? I believe..., and in any case, we believe that there are other measures such as, for example, not bringing inmates into prison at these times. Have the jutjats suspended the entry of people to complete prison sentences? We believe, too, that there are other measures and, in response to the demand of the Wad-Ras press, that they understand that those people who were caught waiting for trial, taking into account the judicial delay, also, that exists in the celebration of these judges, can complete alternative measures, also, in their homes. We'd like you to appreciate, too, these proposals and the feeling... which reception you've had on the part of the judicial agencies. We believe – as we understand it – that the judicial bodies have not been sufficiently sensitive to the pandemic in the country's immediate vicinity, not only in the prison centres, but also in some cases, but we believe that there is little sensitivity to the population's immediate vicinity, and we especially want to do this in the case we have been able, unfortunately, in some areas. We could see a few days ago the denunciation of a family with children at other hours of the night. It seems to us that this has to be avoided. We are aware that this very week the government passed a decree to limit these actions. We know that the Generality has limited powers in these areas and that the Government of the State has the greatest obligation to dictate those measures. But, anyway, we think the decree approved for the government this week shows, huh? ... and, in any case, it must also mark this political will and what is the political intention on the part of the Government. And we think from this point of view, it's positive. We believe, from our point of view, that the judicial system is not at the height of circumstances. We believe that a judicial system, beyond applying its own law, needs to spread justice, must empathize with the conjunction of the population to which the legal norms apply. And, in any case, it must take into account sensitivity and have enough sensitivity to address those issues that we find ourselves in a pandemic context, in a very harsh context and in which, too, the same judicial bodies should be sensitive to the application of standards and the consequences. We didn't want to..., and in any case, let'mind this second part of my intervention..., we want to denounce the persecution that the Catalan political prisoners are patenting on behalf of the Supreme Court. In this chamber, we have been able to hear from, let's say, the unionist groups talking about the favored leaflets that political prisoners get back to Catalan prisons. And this seems to us to be an insult to the same government of the Generality, to the same functioning and to the people who work at the treatment meetings. People who act independently. People who act in the dictatorship, let's say, of legislation and do not act in the dictatorship of political instruction, as we have seen. It is obvious that those who twist the penal code to be able to condemn the independent prisoners, simply because of the fact of making a reference, think they are like them. And no, we are fully respectful of the law, respectful of democratic principles. But we believe that this judicial system, currently the Spanish judicial system, does not respond so much to a sense of justice and a willingness to apply this justice, but rather to respond to the ways and defense of the political and economic interests of the 78's regime, as, unfortunately, we have seen on many occasions. That's what they do by raping and forcing the law, and it's the same. They've forced... we've seen it, haven't we? , it is obvious that political prisoners – and we have seen it in various resolutions – do not have the same deal before the law. Things that are, let's say..., legislative applications or applications that have been made, about interpretations of the law, are not applied to political prisoners. We are finding ourselves with resolve that the only one they add is punishment and suffering on these trapped people who, by themselves, suffer an unfair penalty. And, besides, we add some conditions of this uncertainty, because they can't consult, because they can't have the legal advisor's determination that you tell them how that situation can end, because the Supreme Court's determination is still made in a different and irregular way at every moment. We see, when the prison level they are entitled to has been reviewed, that on the part of the Spanish judiciary there has been a violation of the right to effective judicial protection. The Supreme Court has granted itself some powers that do not correspond to it in the resolution of these appeals. And, therefore, he raped and fought back and obviously violated his rights. We would like to denounce from this rostrum the manoeuvre of the Supreme Court, which leaked to the pressure that it would pursue by prevarication the functions of the prison treatment juntas where there are political prisoners and prisoners, if any of these juntas agree to inform favorably that the political prisoners and prisoners, who were pleased with the application of Article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, could complete the confinement to their homes. I would like to remind you that there are a few prisoners who have complied, in application of these resolutions of some arrests, with this confinement at home. And that couldn't be done by political prisoners, because they're marked. We understand that this action and these decisions of the Supreme Court will, as we have said before, violate the provisions of the recommendations of the High Commission of the United Nations, and will also violate Amnesty International reports that believe that the trial suffered by Mr. Jordi Sánchez and Mr. Jordi Cuixart is not adequate to the legality and, in any case, to the question of freedom. We believe that there is a clear violation on the part of the Supreme Court and the Spanish judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.191.0	Very nice late. Thank you, President; thank you, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Marc Sanglas, you pointed that out very well and explained it very well. The judiciary acts absolutely – and I'm talking about the judiciary, I'm not talking about the judiciary, a judiciary or a jutjat in concrete terms, I'm talking about the judiciary – in addition to the social, economic and health crisis caused by the coronavirus. Our country, Catalonia, but also Spain, Europe and the whole world, is experiencing a health emergency, an emergence of the hardest of the past. The coronavirus pandemic has caused an unprecedented health crisis. We are experiencing a situation of absolute exceptionality, caused by the health crisis, and which, at the same time, is a social and economic crisis. And before this situation, therefore, we must regret that we have never, at the moment, counted with the least complicity and collaboration of the judiciary, which lives from scandals to reality, to the most vulnerable people and to those who suffer most intensely from the crisis caused by the pandemic situation. Today, exactly the same as during the month of March, and the month of April and the month of May and the days that have come. We see it in the performance of the courts and tribunals before the charges. While the Government of Catalonia acts and laws – we try to legislate on what we are competent, and we do so – to prevent people who do not have a housing alternative from being denuded, even further from the crisis, a state of alarm situation that gives legal employment, the judiciary continues to issue orders of denudation with absolute normality, totally in addition to the reality that we are living. Last Tuesday, the Government of the Generality passed a law to try to stop the denunciations – Territories and Justice. And we did and we saw it, too, in the case that today – and we see it, too – takes care of ourselves. We see how the judiciary, at present, acts, before the situation that is seen in the prisons, attends to the situation of pandemic, as if the pandemic does not exist. During the two weeks prior to the declaration of the first state of alarm the indicators of the expansion of the pandemic to Catalonia took an accelerated rhythm. We will have to take, take, and take, unprecedented measures to deal with the health crisis and, at the same time, the social crisis that this was causing. The Department of Justice, from the Department of Criminal Measures, Reintegration and Victim Care, which has the responsibility to manage prison centres and prison services and juvenile justice, therefore, constituted a crisis committee. But it wasn't the same day that we closed the country; no, no. Since the middle of the month of fever, in response to previous crises vicudas, so, we have already begun to prepare ourselves. In this committee, and in the framework of prisons, they analyzed the risk sources of spread of the infection and prepared all the measures that had to be taken to prevent health care and to preserve, at the same time, the rights and living conditions of persons deprived of their liberty. From the first moment, it became clear that this committee had to work closely with the health authorities – the system of health care for prisoners is exactly the same as that of the street – and also with the bodies responsible for the follow-up and management of the crisis in Catalonia, the Procicat. For this reason, all the measures taken, both prevention and management, prior to the positive cases have been consulted with the health authorities and validated for them, and the decisions we have taken, the decisions taken at the centres, respect the confinement of the modules, respect for the winging, etcetera, have always been valid for the health teams and, obviously, for the Process. Thus, we have reorganized jails to prevent contagion: limitation of face communications – in this case, family vis-à-vis have not been activated until this past month of October–, conversion of modules into bubble groups, without activity or interaction between the different modules, grouping of internals with permissions in the same module, testing of coronaviruses at all entrances or re-entrys of permissions, including modules, specific Covid units in order to be able to treat people who are contagious. But with these measures there is not enough, we have not had enough, and this is what the Generality has come up with since the first moment. And following the pronouncements of both United Nations and the Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe in order to prevent the risks of spread, we have done more: to drain the prisons, to reduce the concentration of internal and internal prisons, and, at the same time, the derivation to the home or to an external recourse to improve the condition of life and, ultimately, to avoid, therefore, the contagion. In this sense, what have we done? Classify third-degree interns in favorable conditions to complete the sentence in semi-freedom– the third-degree classified population compared to the total of classified interns has increased from 27_per_cent to 30,5_per_cent– ; application of article 86.4 to remain at home, to avoid mobility and contagion, and application of this measure, of 86.4, has multiplied by five. The fight against the pandemic forces us to maintain a complex balance between the protection of health and the preservation of phonental rights, and we have always aspired to subordinate this balance always in favor of phonental rights. And we did it as we could, because I also want to point out, in this case, that the Prison Administration of Catalonia has been, according to data from the Council of Europe, among the different European administrations competent in the field of prison services, which the most externalisation has done as preventive measure with the Covid-19: a 17_per_cent respect the population that there was the generation of 2020. And we have done this without counting on the complicity of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which has acted on the banks of the pandemic. I myself sent a letter directly to the President of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, Mr Barrientos, explaining to him the measures that we were taking and asking him to participate in the initiatives or proposals that since the judiciary were developing or intended to develop, therefore, to pale and compensate for this situation. It was and is in the hands of the judiciary to suspend the review of the situation of persons in pre-trial detention and those short-term sentences so that they could evolve into a situation of home confinement. Unfortunately, the silence for the answer. The prosecutor's office and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia have acted alien to the health crisis, fleeing any involvement to protect the salvation of persons deprived of liberty. Despite the call we made to them, the judiciary has been on the sidelines of this situation. Plus, as I said, during the confinement the population increased in third degree and multiplied by five the number of interns in the situation of 86.4. What did the D.A. do? Systematically resort to these decisions. So much so that he uses a pre-established form in which he only changes the resource with a pen, does not individualize, does not reach the situation and does not reach the special circumstances that we have, because the pandemic has not left. In the current situation of health crisis, I believe it has become clear that the use and abuse of enterprise is resorting, both from preventive detention and from the imposition of sentences. As well, other forms of criminal responses are possible, and they are for which we advocate and demand that they be brought to an end, because we firmly believe that it is time to move forward with more dignified and humane models of social response. It is necessary to relegate deprivation of liberty to very concrete aspects and as the residual measure. There are around a thousand people in prison centers who should be completing their sentence outside. The criminal system must be opened to mediation, restorative justice and alternative criminal measures. Prisons must be opened; prisons must be spongy and open to the citizenry. Article 100.2, 86.4 and so many other precepts of the general penal law that have not been explored and that have not been applied at all, and, as the penal institution remains, therefore, where we stay: the continuing prison feels where it is to park people who do not like. More burdensome forms need to be generated, which do not only involve moving from prison to home – telematics is an option – but, more importantly, addressing social problems with social responses and not with the usual response – people are getting involved with mental illness, people are getting involved in their regularization situation or not in their papers. That's it, that's the reflection of the Spanish prisons, and also the Catalans, because, ultimately, so we are in the legal framework that we are – I ended up, president. Catalonia takes time working on this line: mediation, restorative justice, alternative criminal measures, prison overture. And the indicators obtained in the surveys and investigations of the Center for Legal Studies and Specialized Training of the Government of Catalonia support these policies aimed at obtaining other criminal responses. I, finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.192.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.193.0	... – I finish now, President, yes, I finish –, I want to finish my intervention by referring to the political prisoners and the press. They live in the same conditions as all the prisoners and prisoners in the Catalan prisons. Even so, in his case we do not find ourselves faced with a problem about the regime of life or about the prison route, the problem is that they are political prisoners and prisoners, convicted of crimes they have not committed, and therefore should not be in prison.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.194.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.195.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about habitat rehabilitation]] [[300-00325/12]] Let's move on to the next inquiry, which is about habitat rehabilitation. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, today we have this inquiry to talk about the rehabilitation of habitats, but we cannot be sure that we are in a health emergency caused by Covid-19, and also in a climate emergency. We know that climate emergence is linked to the need for iron-hi front with deep structural reforms, structural reforms that obviously also take into account housing. That being said, you have answered a question about the green agenda and, in concrete terms, about the rehabilitation of these habitats: the whole past answered a question about the green agenda, explained to us that the design and the impetus that is bringing its department to an end with the Green Agenda Catalonia 2030, and with its strategic objectives, they have to help us create opportunities to improve the lives of people and businesses, in a sustainable environment environmentally, economically and socially, and at the same time work for a resilient and just Catalonia. It has to be said that all these necessary reforms, their department has already collected them in the Coreco plan. You too, counselor, pointed out to us that it is a plan that encourages economic recovery and social protection, and that it should put the green agenda at the centre of this recovery. And why am I talking about the green agenda and Coreco? So we know that habitat rehabilitation is also collected, and it's still a step further from the path already started for your department, as it's been a while since you've been pushing different lines towards habitat rehabilitation. Counselor, you, from your department, are very clear that rehabilitation is one of the great levers in social transformation and a key and necessary bet in all the municipalities. But we go further: the pandemic of the Covid-19 and, in concrete terms, the residential confinement to which we were forced all the citizens of Catalonia in March, made it even more obvious to us the importance of the quality of life before these new situations. So we know that the pandemic has made it possible for more than one person to change their home, seeking better quality of life in the towns towards the city, and, more importantly, if we add to the forced change in working habits during the pandemic with the impulse of teletreball, this idea is still reinforced more. A teletreball that, in many cases, has been forced, yes; but it has also made us realize that it is viable and feasible. Surely, and this is already beginning to pass, the fact of being able to telework begins to influence the time of looking for populations to live better than nature. For example, I, a soc of Osona's region, would tell you that we have a village, Rupit, charming, which now has 279 inhabitants. They've been losing people for 20 years. So from the pandemic, from this first wave, Ishan already registered twenty-i-five more people. We have added first-hand that it can be totally compatible to telework and have a higher quality of life. On this subject, it should be noted that in this Parliament on various occasions we have discussed rural depopulation and how to deal with it; this new factor, teletreball, can open up a window of opportunity. From here, the importance of highlighting the projects that the Government is pushing for the arrival of optical fiber to all municipalities; this will allow connecting the infrastructure and public services of the country, facilitate the deployment of our services, allow the creation of new local operators, boost the deployment of the 5G network and, of course, encourage teletreball in conditions of success. And, apart from all this, we remember that the Government clearly has the need and the political commitment to move forward in cross-cutting measures from all departments to reduce inequalities and create opportunities and for the economic revival of everything – all – the Catalan territory. Therefore, we want all Catalonia to be a living country, a country where in all regions, in all populations, small or large, is guaranteed territorial cohesion and equal opportunities. And we know that we are doing so, guaranteeing that they are armed with the country and armed with the territory; you are already doing so, and you are promoting economic and social progress, the impulse of the economic fabric, from all spheres: that of salvation, that of education, that of optical fiber and, of course, that which today brought us to this inquiry, that of housing. For example, one of the lines that has already boosted its department are: helping to rehabilitate residential buildings, helping to improve energy efficiency and sustainability so as to achieve more energy-efficient housing, helping to conserve to improve deficiencies and helping to improve security and accessibility of all housing. These lines reflect this need and priority in order to improve people's lives, but they are not the only ones. We know that the Department of Lands and Sustainability has gone further, and that they are working to push others, such as the rehabilitation of housing in the rural world. Councillor, in short, we are ahead of new situations generated by the health and climate emergency, new realities that pass to have more quality of life, new ways of hearing the world of work with teletreball, we reptes to boost the economy and promote economic reactivation, and, of course, to fulfill it, also in part, and in a very important way, the rehabilitation of habitats. Now, if we have all the factors in front of us, but we don't have a habitation in condition to live, all the previous efforts are not rewarded. For this reason, it is essential that it is confined to all areas of the territory, whether urban or rural; that there be conditions in all dwellings and necessities and ideals. That, together with the economic recovery of the whole country, with the best infrastructure, with the best of the different services, from north to south and from east to west of our country, we promote and boost those necessary aids for the rehabilitation of habitats, and, above all, also, outside urban plots, that is, addresses to the rural world and to smaller municipalities. For this reason, counselor, I would like to ask you: what actions has your Department of Lands and Sustainability planned in the area of habitat rehabilitation, and, in concrete terms, in the rehabilitation of habitats in the rural world? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.199.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, MPs Erra, we are in healthcare emergency and, indeed, we are in climate emergency. You have said this at the beginning of your intervention, and even though you seem to have no connection, health and climate emergencies have a connection and, moreover, have much to do with today's inquiry into habitat rehabilitation. You have done nothing: the green agenda, the urban agenda, the rural agenda, as well as thinking about the territories of this urban agenda. This is all to be seen, because the way to get us out of the crisis, the crisis we are experiencing, the way to recover economically like the country, to reactivate us, and also this social protection needed at this time, more necessary than ever, therefore, must also have as an accomplice rehabilitation, rehabilitation of buildings and habitats and urban renewal. We have a huge challenge, where it's conservation and better habitation, and I'll give you some examples, some data, a little context. We have a residential park of 3.9_million dwellings, distributed in 1.1_million buildings, and this is the park we have in the country. Of these 3,9_millions, a 65_per_cent, is said to be, 2_millions_i_mig, approximately, 2,5_millions, is built before 1980. Since the Generality we have promoted the realization of ITEs, technical inspections of buildings, for the habitats more than forty-five years old. That's not a topic, let's say, new. This serves us to know the state of the buildings: these ITEs have revealed that a prominent part of the housing stock has deficiencies, deficiencies that require important corrective interventions, are structural, still, sometimes, of addition of accessibility measures or energy efficiency. These habitats need to be improved. Data shows that, although it is necessary, we still have low rehabilitation taxes in our country, huh? Here we are: although it is necessary, from the point of view of habitability, that it is a central theme, the green agenda, and that it is also an occupation nixol, in short, all that is rehabilitation, we continue to have taxes on rehabilitation. The residential sector consumes 15_percent of the final demand for energy and, therefore, we must direct it towards an adequate energy efficiency. There is a low rate of rehabilitation, we say, despite the fact that there is – and you have not made it – a series of aids that we believe are still insufficient. We still have to go there. On May 2, the Government approved the creation of Coreco – you also refer – to articulate the response of the public sector to these economic and social challenges derived from the Covid. The main mission, as you know, until now has been, therefore, identifying lines of action and projects, developing a plan that was approved by the same Government. Now it's time to prioritize, prioritize and achieve European foundations to implement these projects, isn't it? Objects and axes have been added to the Coreco mark. One of the axes is climate action, this cross-sectional view that went beyond the same is intended to transfer all this concept of "green agenda" to the whole plan. A_second example, effectively, is habitating and energy efficiency. In the setting up of a Green Agenda of Catalonia 2030, which drinks of the strategy of economic growth of the European Union, the New Green Deal, and also, obviously, of the SDGs, if not, we would not be talking about 2030, is proposed a programme of actions on energy efficiency, access to housing and urban renewal are fundamental. And, fruit of all this plantation, we don't rehabilitate. cat – we didn't say it that way. Rehabilitating. is an objective to increase the number of habitats currently rehabilitated. And we want to keep in mind the diversity of circumstances that are given in this park of habitats and, obviously, the most metropolises, the big cities, the small and middle cities and the towns and the nuclei. In short, also the rural world, and you ask me a specific question addressed to this territorial area of villages and nuclei. Rehabilitate. It must be a complete programme of institutional concertation, public-private collaboration; it must count on the knowledge of recognizable actors in which is the field of building and rehabilitation. I am referring to the College of Architects, the College of Apparellers, the College of Industrial Engineers, the Gremi de Constructores, the Administrators of Finques, also own institutions, such as now the Itec, the Institute of Construction Technology, and within the Rehabilitation. We would like to speak expressly about the implementation of a programme to promote the mobilization of housing in the rural world, which is only one of the pillars. This programme for the promotion or mobilization of housing in the rural world must allow – you said – the new population to be installed. I want to refer specifically to the circumstances in which we will develop this plan. First of all, we are talking about small municipalities, with fewer than five hundred inhabitants or, in any case, less than three thousand, but with more than two nuclei. We also have municipalities with these circumstances that have tended to depopulation far from the last decades. In 2019, as you know, the government pushed forward the project A country of opportunity, a living country, that wants to boost the territory to generate opportunities, especially in these rights affected by depopulation and aging. And this strategy for territorial dynamism included, effectively – so we defined it from the first moment – housing, that those people who want to live in small municipalities have the possibility to do so. Today we have many difficulties that we have identified, and that we want to solve, and one of the main lines, effectively, is betting for rehabilitation. What do we find ourselves with? What situation do we find ourselves in? There is a situation of stagnation and population aging, first of all. We have detected an incipient movement of our residents. You refer to an example of your region. Digitalization facilitates these new moves. In the small municipalities, though, we find ourselves very often inhabited or sunny empty that are not on the market. Simply put, they're not on the market. Often it produces the paradox that young people born in these towns or those who want to live there cannot find or offer to install themselves there. In addition, many times there is an obvious lack of conservation in this stock of unused habitats. There are opportunities, too, obviously, huh? , as the eventual arrival of our residents makes you increase to serve and, therefore, that a mike is moved the offer and demand it. But in any case, we want to stimulate her. I, therefore, through the Rehabilitem. We want the housing, in short, to complement its social function, all the while, but especially in the small municipalities. We will promote a programme to mobilize housing in the rural world, a proposal to live and work in small municipalities. Whoever wants to do it has to be able to do it. Despite the negative democratic dynamics, the projections of sometimes a little optimistic, it should be easier for those who decide to reside in these rights, who do not find it through, to make it easier for this instrument of territorial cohesion, of rural agenda, to be set in motion. It must also have been possible, in parallel with this mobilization of habitats, to develop economic activity in these municipalities, right? And, therefore, we will promote measures, through this programme for the mobilization of housing in the rural world, based on two axes, to curb precisely the loss of population. First, the promotion of access to housing. We define different ways of youth, according to each case – rural massoveria, cessation of use, right of surface, logger, property, shared property. And one_second is the promotion of rehabilitation – structural rehabilitation, also energy, also accessibility, better textures and plots, conservation and better heritage. First with a diagnosis. A diagnosis, a map of the actions immobilized in all these towns and nuclei. And, then, giving incentives to mobilise this empty housing stock exist as a joint and private advisor, also intermediate between joint and private, establishing tax measures and various aids. We want to solve – I said earlier – the administrative, legal and management schools that we often find before this park of assets, of habitats, therefore, in disuse. This paralyzes what society is, especially in the rural world, and it remains, in short, capable as a nation. Therefore, what we want to do is also, in parallel to all the deployment of the same plan, some pilot tests. Some pilot tests to detect problems that could be said to involve depopulation analysis, the poor state of the built park, the plots of the same town– went to urban plots, but we understand that we are in a rural environment, in the same town– that there are deficiencies, deficiencies in the habitats of logging in these municipalities, and also the characteristics of the municipalities, with few resources, with little economic and managerial capacity, number of nuclei of the municipality in question, situations of low density or lack of economic competitiveness of these surroundings. We want to act from the hands of the gatherings and the locals and we will do so – before I say it – with municipalities of less than five hundred inhabitants or of less than three thousand but with more than two nuclei. And, besides, we'll do it right away. Actually, we're doing it. On October 29, the Government has already agreed to allocate EUR 2 million to this programme with the package of economic measures that accompany the last measures taken by the Government of the Government before the Covid, in order to carry out, precisely, these pilot tests for the rehabilitation of habitats. We will allocate this 2_million euros to the local people and the new people who find themselves in a situation of lack of access to housing and who tend to turn them into their first residence. We will spare no effort to keep the country alive and because people can develop their life plan there, in decent habitats, rehabilitated and energy-efficient. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.200.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors]] [[300-00318/12]] The next question is about the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Alicia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.201.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President with office as President, Councillor Calvet and deputies and deputies. Vice-President, yesterday the president of my group told him that we would be on the side of the government at these difficult times. In fact, we've been here since March, so that's always, at this complicated moment of pandemic, and now with the second wave, so we think it's right to be next to the government, especially at times like a long look and a country visit. I don't think he's going to listen to my group criticise the health measures the government is taking. We were pleased that you also had this attitude in relation to the Government of Spain, or its groups, the groups that support the Government – left or together for Catalonia – who voted even against a state of alarm that they later claimed. But in any case, as we say, we have neither questioned nor questioned health measures. We think the time is pretty hard. Now, we are criticising how you take them and how you take them, whether or not you take compensatory measures for the sectors affected by these decisions. Miri, three things, I would like to say, in relation to this question. We believe, first of all, that they are constantly speculating with the measures to be taken. Speculate and improvise, send out probe globuses that, basically, the only one they generate is a certain uncertainty and insecurity in citizens and businesses, which they listen to contradicted, many times, diverse opinions of counselors. A few days ago I remembered Councilman El Homrani, who said teletreball was mandatory, after Councilwoman Budo said it wasn't... that I think it's not positive. I believe that the citizens expect a strict government, that it takes the right decisions and communicates them when they have approached themselves in a certain way. What we want is that that was it. And I think that you, in the background, know that sometimes the fists of the party for power are doing the country wrong in this sense. I believe that what should be done is to deliberate, reflect, privately, and communicate situations, decisions, of course. And the cities think they're making enough effort and we're asking them for enough effort to have a strict government that does the job well done. Secondly, take decisions without agreeing with the sectors concerned. This is a criticism that the economic sectors make. What you do is inform, but you don't agree, inform when decisions, mostly, are near. And I think we need to recover the dialog, we need to recover this space, this environment to agree, to consent. It's true that sometimes it's hard to do it in every sense, but with some. And I think, in this sense, you've made unidirectional monologues with the sectors, informing them when decisions were already taken. And I think this dynamic, Vice President, we should change it. He's been with the local world, too. Yesterday my companion, Marta Moreta, made an inquiry to Councilwoman Budó with the local world. They also feel very abandoned for the Government of the Generality, they have done what is at their hands and what is not – without skills, without resources – to make a support, to be on the side of the Generality, but it is true that neither the recovery nor the resources that they would deserve with this extraordinary expense that they are developing all this time. Therefore, we would say that we must change this dynamic and replace the information, or inform it, in order to listen, to dialogue and to agree. And thirdly, I wanted to say that the health measures that you take, and that we respect and defend, must be accompanied by aid and compensatory measures. It is to say, if the Government of the Generality asks for a state of alarm and then accompanies this decision of bars, restaurants and aesthetic centers – fifteen days later it added the sports centers, all the extracurricular activities, the university – if it does all that, it has to make up for these activities that, in the end, do not have the fault of this decision, right? We think they're painting a lot, all these sectors, and sometimes one thinks, they see the little courage or the little ambition you have in putting this on the table, which is that some of these deals, or a lot of these deals, may be actually closing down. Because, honestly, if not, it's hard for me to hear. It's the bars, it's the restaurants, the beauty centres, the night clubs, the firaries – which haven't been able to open since the month of March–, the entities that run couples and schools, the trade – it's true that it's not closed, but you've cut it off and you've shut down shopping centers, which sometimes we also see as the demon. There's a lot of people working at the malls, they generate a lot of jobs, and at these times, they have the blind down. So I think we should be aware of the difficulties that many of these sectors are going through and put resources into it. Look, I'm saying this because in July, I think a 9-million-euro call was approved for the trade that ended with a few hours, that's to say, you see it was a little bit of that, isn't it? Deia Pimec, said Pimec that in these first fifteen days of the tank – now we are already going for the third week – the loss of invoicing of bars and restaurants would be 780_million euros. Clearly, you have approved a first call of 40, which has also been exhausted in hours, and now they say that there will be one of 50, which certainly has not yet arrived, there is no resolution and there is no call. We ran a lot for the first tram, the 40's, but the 50's not up. Nor do we understand why: if we are agile with one, why do we not have to be with the others? Still, 90_million euros is absolutely ridiculous if we think of 780 billing losses across the sector. But look, I want to say it: the night octopus, which, except for five weeks in the summer, has been closed since March. The evil that this supposes for the night octopus that, escorted, are halls of concerts, locals with music, many of them connected to the history of many cities of Catalonia, and that they do not know if they will be able to open again. Now they've made a campaign for the last concert, haven't they? Because they don't know if they can open again. They have not yet granted aid to the night oci sector, Vice-President; I do not understand it, as a matter of fact. So much? They are in these moments accounting for their losses in 380_million euros. It's just that they haven't been able to do anything yet. The other day the Counsellor Tremosa said: "Well, 10_million, today it seems that they say 8 and a half. But if it's ridiculous, that's ridiculous! We will not fix them, if we give them a thousand euros to every night place, which they wear since the month closed. Honestly, sometimes I feel like they're getting a little bit of everyone, don't they? Cases of colonies that manage entities of the leure, which have decreased their billing between an 80 and a 90_per_cent, a barbarity, an 80 and a 90. They're small, aren't they? Maybe with a simple, moderate, discreet help, they could do a lot. Why don't we approve of direct aid to this sector which has been patenting since March? That the colonies of April, May, June were cancelled, which is a strong time, and also now the colonies of the late. It's just that we can't hear it, Vice President, it's hard to hear. And then, then, the AMPAs, the sports entities, the cultural ones, the reinforcement entities that have ceased to be extracurricular, and we will see, therefore, when they can recover. I don't understand how, the day they announce it, they don't have a package prepared. Because look, Vice President, you won't be able to tell me here – I hope you won't, huh? – that it has no resources, because of the resources in tea – of the resources in tea. They will arrive at the end of the year 3,225_million euros of the State; it is true that they have not yet arrived, they have not reached 1,200 and 377. Certainly, 337 for education, which was also for universities. That's 377, 58 for college. Yes, yes, yes, yes, Vice President. 80_per_cent for children, primary and secondary, and 20_per_cent for higher education. That's it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And it turns out... no, I wasn't wrong people, huh? And it's proven with the Ministry of Universities and the Ministry of History. You didn't just transfer 20. Where are the other 38? It's just that we don't understand. And I tell you one thing, you say, "You're wrong. So Councilman Tremosa also, because the other day at the committee said there were 38 missing, and here Mr. Ferro was, and therefore I can confirm it. Miri, but apart from this, resources have arrived, you have made a presuppositional modification to incorporate 420_million euros into the deficit target. Why didn't you dedicate all these 420_millions – except the 72 that you agreed with the commons – to helping the economic sectors? Why didn't he get all these resources? And now I'll tell you another thing, for me even harder, in these two minutes that remain: 3,225, 420, res, 40_million all right, in the last few weeks, for the sectors that are patenting so much their tanks. And now explain how, analyzing the budgetary execution of September, almost 900_million euros appear in your accounts that you have not yet spent. How do you explain this to the economic sectors? How do you explain this to the entities that you give 75_million euros? How do you explain this to the residents, where you haven't hired 1,800 professionals, as they said? How do you tell the city to see that their CAPs are closed? As you tell the city they don't have trackers and now they say they'll double them? How do you explain the col·lapse of 061? Nine hundred_million euros, there are in the accounts of the Generalitat, that come from financial entries and other non-financial entries. How can we have 900_million euros in our current accounts and not spend them? Councilwoman Budó said the other day: "Tell the State what I spend, what I spend. No, if the State is heavily indebted because, among other things, it has approved a grant of €16,000_million for autonomous communities and passed €15,000_million to social security. But what about the generality? Now he's going to be in debt because he's going to do the deficit, a little deficit, but it's the same, it's that he can do more. But it's more than 900 million euros, and I'm not making it up, am I? I went to the Generality website and look at the accounts and escort, here is: total financing and not financing, €891 million. And here the cost of the ICS – which, by the way, the ICS and the CatSalut, at these times, have a surplus of 344_million euros – is already off. Why don't these nearly 900 million euros be spent on all the needs we have? I hope you will explain this to us, Counselor, because it is really hard for us to believe that, with all the needs there are, that we have 900_million euros, according to their data, to spend – still more than this November and December – and we are being painted for the economic sectors and for all the people who are in a very vulnerable situation at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.203.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, Members, Members, Member Romero, first thing, I would like to make a few concepts clear. First of all, this government isn't laughing at anyone, okay? Because we're very aware that the decisions we're making are tough decisions, and we're gonna put all the resources in, and we're gonna put all the tools in to help. That maybe it won't be enough? I can accept criticism – I can accept criticism. Probably no help will be enough at a time like this one. But we'll keep looking for resources under the stones to get everyone. But we don't laugh, nobody's. Therefore, I believe that there are expressions that, dealing with this question, we can avoid. I accept all the political criticism – all of it – but I believe that there are things that we can avoid. Then, you've made a whole series of considerations that I think I need – that I need. The last thing I did was about a current surplus of EUR 890 million. Listen, this is the photo of a_me, but we have to arrive at the end of the year, we have to arrive at the end of the year. That's basic bullshit. If every month we have to get to zero the current accounts, the month we have many more expenses than entries..., because we don't have the same entries every month. So, if you look at this chart, you'll see that there have been months of the year that we've had a current deficit. So there are months that must be overtaken to try to do something that I think is very important: that those who help us commit us, we have to pay them, eh? Because what's useless is helping and then not paying them. I say this because, of course, here we must also assume all our responsibility. We take it, and I'm telling you now that we are aware that, for a lot of resources we have, there will never be any help you can pay for, as well as what it represents for anyone who has a business, having to suspend their activity, because it's much more than an economic activity. For a lot of people, it's their life, and it's their life plan, and we know that this life plan is being affected. But it affects itself for a greater good, which is the salvation of everyone. For this reason, all the measures that we have taken have been taken, all that is the restriction of activity, by health criteria, and these health criteria are the criteria that mark us from the scientific and health fields the public health people, the whole public health team of the Government, that we have done together the direction of the public health system, and that are always contrasted with experts from different areas of the health world, precisely, to combat the pandemic. And that's not what we're talking about. We will not try to counter these measures that respond to a higher good, which is the need to protect life, with the legitimate economic interest there can be. Anyway, what we're gonna do is look at how it can make up for it. And we did it – we did it. And I think we need to put it on the table, because with his intervention it seems like we haven't done anything wrong. When we had the 16th of October that restricted the activity of the restoration, of the aesthetic centers, we put on the march a first aid of 40_million euros. That you'll say it's insufficient, but we put it in the way. And to illustrate the difficulty that we all have in making decisions about this, I ask you to ask your colleagues that they are taking the same steps to Asturias or Navarre. And let's see, depending on your tickets, what measurements they've put in. Because you will see that Navarra, despite having an economic concert, is equivalent in aid per population, in euro per population, to what we do from the Generality of Catalonia. And in other territories where they've made these restrictions there's no help. We do it, and we do it out of conviction, because we think we need to help everyone, and we know it won't be enough. You refer to the 0.2_per_cent deficit, the margin we have, which we claim from April – from April – and which has just been authorized in October. You have been registrar in an assembly and you have carried public administrations, and you know perfectly well that it is very different that you can have a capacity to spend on the month of April than on the month of October, because there are administrative procedures, and so, right now, the rush and order that we have all the members of the government given us is that all that is expected to go quickly, because help must come, and therefore speed up all the administrative procedures. The nine measures we announced last week were accompanied by a package of 306_million euros; 306_million euros that we bring from this margin of 0.2_per_cent of GDP, and you say: "That's not all. Obviously, because we are at the beginning of November and probably there will be measures to be put on the table. Maybe the extension of some of these measures, maybe the intensification of some. Wait till you don't– wait till you don't. That's why we've taken action now and we've anticipated it. Or maybe some people will have to go on, or we'll have to go on maybe with a level and we'll have to keep putting new aids on the table, and we'll have to have a margin. That's why we're saving a little – I think it's important – too, because they can get there for nine lines of help that will have to continue until the end of the year. In the field of culture, 17,2_million euros that we have put on the table, which is added to the 13_million euros that we have, therefore, at the thirty-first additional provision of the Generality's premise. EUR 20 million for aid to education entities in the school, including all areas of extracurriculars, cultural entities and sports clubs. Twenty-million euros for federated sports clubs, for federated sports, and also for all gymnastics. Fifty million euros, which add up to 40, to help existing establishments restore, aesthetic..., we also extend the base to the establishments of the night oci, children's parks and other establishments affected in which the activity has been suspected. Twenty-i-sis_million euros in the field of fighting against housing emergence. Twelve million euros to the housing agency for the aparthotels in use to allocate them to the relocation of denominated families. One thousand, we want to reach a thousand families who can benefit. Two million euros to the rehabilitation of habitats, which is also important. One-hundred-twenty-five million euros to the most vulnerable community strengthening policies, including: guaranteed income from citizenship – increased beyond the budget – contributions to the Food Bank and Red Creu, coverage of basic food needs, extension of the programme contract with the joints for basic areas of social and sensory services, and reinforcement of residential services. As Councillor El Homrani announced, it is to modify the rates, which in the end means what is paid per place that the Administration entrusts to entities of the Third Sector and to enterprises of the social economy, precisely, in the field of residences, in the field of care to large people and services in the field of childhood and adolescence. And also support measures for public transport. We therefore foresee this contribution of EUR 253 million to maintain the level of public transport we have now, which we would like to increase much more. Therefore, we have not done anything – we have not done anything. I believe that we must also bear in mind that the measures which affect the economic sectors, probably, are a part of the anxiety of many workers in these sectors who see themselves affected because they know that the ETRO that is being processed today costs a lot to collect it at the end of the month. And I think this is a pending assignment. We have offered to the State to channel through the Public Employment Service of Catalonia, the SOC, this share of processing, as SEPE has a demand and there is this situation that they are overtaken. And I can hear the difficulty of having all the administrations. That is why we have offered our help. There is no answer – there is no answer. The vital minimum ingredient, which was to be used to maintain a subsistence income for the most affected sectors, especially during this year, is not running properly. Let's go back to offering our help. We have the experience of guaranteed citizenship income, which we know how difficult it is. That we have reduced the terms – we have reduced the terms – and we know that it is difficult, and so we told the Government of the State when they presented the proposal to us, and we said: "We have experience, it's not a day for another, we know what it costs. But now we've got the machine ready, and we've offered to manage it ourselves. They'd say no, they'd do better. I think it is obvious that there is room for improvement, so we can all contribute to it – we can all contribute to it. I will never come to take away the responsibilities that this government has, ever – ever – but I think it is true that this is why we will get out of it collectively. We have boosted an aid for autonomes of 20_million euros. This same week we put it on the march and approved it for the government, but it is contradictory that we have to put in the march a measure for the autonomies and that the 21st of October is copper in all the shares of the generation of cop. I think sensitivity, in this sense, has failed, and I think we need to find a way to correct it, and I am convinced that you would want to correct it, and in any case, the problem may be in another area, in the Government of the State, with all the bureaucracy, I can already hear it. But I think here, in the end, either we all get out or nobody's gonna get out. Therefore, this government is acting – this government is acting. We are making use of all the resources we have in the supply – all the resources we have in the supply – and then, at the reply, I will explain the Covid fund, because I think there are errors in its layout, which when I explain it I will explain it from that moment on in a very different way. Thank you, Mr President, Councillor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.204.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the reply, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.205.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, you remind me so much of Vice President Junqueras when it comes to this, huh? , condescending with the deputies. You will explain what you want – you will explain what you want. 337_million euros have arrived for the education fund, which went 80_percent to children, primary and secondary, and 20_percent to higher education, and here you will explain the milongas you want. The universities have suffered a lot. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They've been spent... Now I can't say milongas and now I can't say... Listen to me, I didn't insult anyone, and when I said "I hope they don't get angry, I didn't say "they get angry, I said we have to take it into account. We have to take this into account, because in the end one doesn't know what to think. What is clear is that universities have already suffered a great deal. They're making a very important extraordinary expense, more than 75 million euros, and you've only transferred 20. And we tell him: where are the other 38? Miri, you say: "Oh, I have EUR 891 million in the accounts at 30 September, of course, there are three months left, but listen, it's that in November there will still be a share of state funds, and also in September, and that we have to pay around EUR 1,500 million, Vice President. It is that it still lacks the half of the Covid fund, and has 891_million euros in the accounts. To me the feeling that she gives me, and she will excuse me, is that you do a policy like that of the PP, of austerity. I mean, listen, I don't spend. I have these, I leave them to see what expense I'll have later. It's what this resource needs today because it has a problem with the economic sectors. And you said, "He will never do it hard, man, of course, he will never do it hard. But, listen to me, it's that you have, at these times, spread over these months, 40_million euros, only. Home, we can never do enough, but 40 is ridiculous, it's obvious that it's ridiculous. Talk to the economic sectors. It's that they're saying, that there's no way, that it's going to die, that they can't open. Then, of course, I say: « Home, 900_million euros; says: « Deficit. June had a bit of a deficit. There hasn't been any since June, has there? We are with these figures, on the account of the Generalitat de Catalunya box. Home, I think I could make a little effort, spend. Moreover, Councilwoman Budó, I repeat, said yesterday: "Let the State spend, let it be indebted; it is already doing so, but you can do it too. You know if he does, if he spends a little more, the State will cover him. Now he'll say no. Well, I spent at least these 891, vice president, I don't understand. "Not because I'm going to be spending later. Well, I don't know if he'll keep them, but at this point, the ICS has 344 million euros in surplus. You've almost... there's almost 900 in total, and many, many needy, among others, for example, paying bills to residents. It's just that this isn't an extraordinary expense anymore, it's what it has to pay for, it's what it has to do and it doesn't, so it doesn't? Eight-cents-seventy-one minus 75... Jo, honestly, they don't convince me of their explanations. It gives me the feeling that I listen to a member of the People's Party. No, austerity, I'm left with the money for a case, it wasn't... no, it wasn't, if it's November now with the certification, it'll get the share of the Covid fund, and the same. So he'll have more tickets. It's that, frankly, it costs to hear it. And I don't think there's any way anyone understands that, Vice President. No, I don't think you have..., use this argument, but that's not..., I don't think it makes us pass, can't make us pass this explanation. Then you say: "We act as an assembly with the administered procedure. Miri, you've got so much more time to look at things, huh? But I looked at the contract platform. You're making emergence contracts in August and September. They made an emergence contract in August worth 127_million euros for technological transformations to schools. Clearly, the month of August is not coming. Well, they could have done it before. He'll tell me not because there were no resources. Well, it's the same. By emergence, this means negotiating without publicity, quickly, and they have not made any other, therefore, an administered procedure. I don't know if they're jumping or not, I don't want to doubt it, because, besides, there's an evaluation and an audit that the Union of Accounts will do throughout this period, but what's clear is that there's a procedure and you're using it when you need it. If it is well justified, therefore, no problem, but, man, do not tell me how they say: "Home, is that, of course.... No, since July knows the resources that will come to it from the State, Covid funds: 3.225. This generates credence, but it is that, moreover, it can use the emergency procedure in the contract, as it is using with many contracts, that if we look at them, some even have nothing to do with Covid; but well, that's the same, the Account Union will already tell us. Vice President, obviously, do you guys do everything you can? I'm not saying no, it's that we want them to do more, because resources have arrived from the State and because at these times the finances of the Generality, so, they say, the picture of September 30 that you say, that you have 900_million on the account, and therefore make an effort, spend a little. They won't be here any more in November, too, and we're about to finish the year. It's that we're spending money now. Is it that, if not, what you prefer, passing the year following the resources to the account? So we believe that with the hardships that a lot of people are going through, they don't touch. It doesn't matter because, besides, the State has already said that if it happens, then it will already cover it, because in these moments we have to save lives and we have to save the economy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Furné, empty and economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make his answer, the vice president has the word another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.207.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MP Romero, let's go back to it: these €891 million will be spent. I don't pateixi, I don't pateixi, that the one I'm worried about isn't that there's money left in the bank, it just, precisely, that they don't. So, I don't pateixi, that's all they'll spend. Secondly, you, when I refer to the procedures administered, sweep the contract with subsidies; no, you didn't – you didn't –, you know it perfectly, you have a management path that you know how to differentiate it perfectly. Therefore, do not bar me what is a procedure of a contract, which can be done by emergence, certainly, with the assumption that it establishes the regulation, with a subsidy, which, precisely, what we do is articulate beasts previously to the proof of the documentation so that it can arrive more quickly. Third, about the Covid funds. Covid funds, there are distribution criteria, but they are not required to be allocated to these sectors. And, if not, look 'at the regulations' – look 'at the regulations' – because, if not, I would like to say that it has, let's say, three sources: the health, the education and the entrances fall, in which there is a share of transportation. That would mean that in the field of education, then, we could only reach 337 million, when we need much more. So, they're not ponds. After you make a mistake, if I may, that says: "80_per_cent goes to non-university education and 20_per_cent to university education. No, what's useful is a criterion of the population for years to distribute it, and you say: 80_per_cent is depending on the population that's been in it for years and 20_per_cent, depending on the population that's been in it for twenty-four years, roughly. I can make a mistake a year ago, a year later. But when I say twenty-four years, people don't just go to college, Mrs. Romero, they go to vocational training. What do you mean, we don't forget about professional training? Don't you think about it? Therefore – therefore – there will be no more resources than these 337, obviously. The resources to be allocated, according to the Ministry of Heritage, only to compensate for tickets, we will not do so, we will not all allocate them to compensate for tickets; we will have to allocate a share to the new expense. Therefore, we assume that there will be even a greater deficit than there would have been if we applied strictly the criteria explained from the point of view of the Ministry of Heritage. And, therefore, we... don't worry that they're spending more resources than they've ever spent, right? What can't be done is to use the same money for one thing and another, because a euro that you spend on one thing you can't spend again, it's always been that way; it's the cost of opportunity, isn't it? In any case, now in November, there will be, therefore, a new intake of the 604_million health care system that will be incorporated, and that will allow, first of all, to cover the extraordinary health care expenditure that has been incurred. And in the end, the source of the fall of the entrances will arrive, which, for example, in the field of transport is made up of 180_million euros, but I have already told him that we will not have to pose 253, because the deficit is higher. Therefore, I did not pateixi, that in no case will there be any money left in the dungeon. And it is certain that the State, after asking for April, in October has ended suspending the deficit and debt targets. But it's also true that to do debt operations we need permission from the Ministry of Heritage. So we don't have all the margin we want. Then I'll take his intervention, give it to the Minister of Hysenda. [[Funnel veils]] I believe that we will prove that the PSC has actually been independent of the PSOE, because the criteria will be absolutely different; the fact is that it will only have been independent for this, to make one speech here and to make another one at the Congress of Deputies. I hope he's independent of a lot of other things. But in any case, I do not feel sorry, that we will continue to work to provide resources – and if I can finish speaking without interrupting myself... We will have to make a very important effort in the next few weeks, and in the next few weeks we will have to expand all the channels we have opened – all of them – we will have to expand them, because, unfortunately, this does not happen in a few days. And to do so, I expect your complicity. I expect your complicity, and I hope that when we have to expand the channels in the field of finance, I can count on you. I'm totally sure, geek, that after your intervention here today, so it won't be any other way. In fact, even so, I could put it to your young lady, that the Ministry of Heritage accepts all these petitions. Thank you, Congresswoman, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.208.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about mental salvation]] [[300-00321/12]] The next question is about mental salvation, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs. Blanca Victoria Navarro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.209.0	Good afternoon, president, deputies; good afternoon, councillor. Democracy is based on the trust of citizens towards the politicians who direct them, and one of the pillars to sustain this trust is the transparent management of information, especially economics, because, after all, those who own the money that politicians manage are citizens and therefore have the right to know what politicians are doing with it. Another pillar of democracy is the structures of control over the Government, which protect us all from wasting our money or using it for our own interests or to benefit friends, sucklers, parasites or other relatives. And that control, from the Parliament, is the task of the opposition, led by Citizens. I tell you all this because from the beginning of the legislature we have asked you as an active and passive person how the mental health budget is being spent. We have asked them many questions, and from many of them we have not received an answer. A member of his party even came to complain that the Citizens' people gave them a lot of work to their departments. Yes, you know that the opposition is precisely for that, to control the activity of its department, because that is the only way to guarantee democracy, although we understand that this can bother those who do not want to be controlled. And if we have insisted it is because we have not yet managed to explain to us where the 70_millions that Comín promised in 2017 went to improve mental health care; precisely, in 2017, in which we do not yet know where the money came from to pay for the one they linked. And let me insist, and more with the information that is coming out these days of how money that theoretically had to go to health has ended up, supposedly, financing the process, and with what we are knowing that entrepreneurs of the alleged secessionist plot stay to eat with you to make the reflections, to manage the contracts, when the ethical code of your Government has expressly prohibited meetings with interest groups outside the public agenda. Anyway... In another matter, I would also like to ask you, Commissioner, about the information blackout you have made when you stopped publishing the reports from the results centre and the balance sheet centre. Thanks to them, we knew that in 2017 the mental health network served only one third of the people who needed it and that, on average, it was only once every two months, and that families had no guarantee of care. The information was already insufficient, but we don't have that now. And, with all that they presume of transparency, in 2018 and 2019 we know nothing of what they are doing, but no longer only in mental health, neither in hospital, nor in emergencies, nor in specialized, nothing, the government's information blackout that most presumes of transparency – I suppose it will be by that of « tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack. She is also a consultant, and her department has transferred the competencies of the Ministry of Health's portfolio of services in health care and prevention. With regard to mental health care, the treatment, not only health care, but also biopsychosocial treatment of mental health problems, including, of course, autistic spectrum disorders, addictions, eating disorders, all of which need specific programmes. And prevention, the most pressing, suicide prevention, because suicide is a preventable death. In Catalonia no one has any doubt that if you break a leg they will put a plaster on you, and if necessary they will send you to do rehabilitation, but in mental health, if you have a depression, a child with Asperger or ADHD, you have to seek life, literally, in private, if you can afford it, because the public health system does not guarantee treatment, neither health nor social support in schools. We read yesterday in this chamber a manifesto of adherence to ADHD day. What families need, in addition to reading a manifesto here, is that it applies once and for all what this Parliament approves to ensure health, social and educational support. Because then they put anti-stigma campaigns in place – not many, the truth, and, moreover, now, for what they have told us, they are worried because their department does not guarantee their funding – but discrimination starts, precisely, in their department, that it is not guaranteeing access to treatments to people with mental health problems, as I have mentioned before, as with other health problems, with this from when one breaks a leg. And, if they receive the therapies, at best they receive them from time to time and depending on which school the psychologist has been trained to touch. I don't know what they spend the day asking for skills if they don't meet the ones they've already transferred. They not only act with a tremendous lack of transparency and violate the right to information, they not only discriminate, they not only do not guarantee access to treatments, but also that they have been able to surprise this Member, because they have not only voted against the current legality – which, although that is a barbarity, they are already getting used to us in this chamber, in this parallel dimension in which political life takes place in this chamber – they have gone a step further and voted against reality, and they have become so wide, listen. Look, two years ago we adopted a resolution to move forward on a suicide prevention plan. A year ago, we even adopted a motion in this Chamber to move forward in this direction. It was first-person associations, family associations, survivors' associations, professionals who moved their concerns to us so that we would be their voice in this chamber, and we were able to unanimously approve their proposals, and you came to take the picture with them. And after this time, what has your department done to fulfill what this Parliament has urged the Government to do? Nothing, nothing. They have not complied with the content of the motion, but they have not even submitted the compliance reports to the citizens of Catalonia. And the MPs of the parties that support the Government have voted that everything is already done so that Parliament does not claim it, covering them up in their inaction and their opacity, lacking the truth and lacking, which is even more serious, the confidence of the citizens. Because, listen, any of these entities, if you don't submit your memoirs, you don't give them the grant to pay for therapies that you have to seek to do because you're not providing it, but you are allowing yourself not to account for them and not to inform them of how the fulfillment of what is your obligation to provide them is going. What is serious, Commissioner, is not the lack of respect for the activities of these Members, who we are working to reach agreements for the citizens, is that they are denouncing the activities of this Chamber. Ignoring the popular will they are turning this camera into a scene of empty words and hollow commitments that, from what we are seeing, their department, in addition to taking photos, has no intention of fulfilling. But what is really serious is that it is a lack of respect for the citizens who share with us their concerns for us to solve their problems and make them a little more conducive to their lives. It is a colossal betrayal of the trust they place in us as politicians. Counselor, but don't you realize the tremendous frivolity? Counsel, that we are talking about a plan to prevent suicide, that the first resolution was adopted two years ago, that, in these two years, in Catalonia, more than ten thousand people have tried to take their lives, and, unfortunately, more than five hundred have succeeded each year. Counselor, they are more than a thousand destroyed families, who, as survivors, also have no guarantee of support in the resources of the public health network. Does not his suffering seem terrible enough to devote a budget to implementing what this chamber urged him to do? And at least out of honesty, if they haven't fulfilled it, let them recognize it. Counsel, that among the discriminated and neglected there are no political colors, and that we all see that while they fail to fulfil their obligation to attend to them, they continue to open embassies and now want to open an agency on the moon. And what citizens need is that politicians in Catalonia, once and for all, touch from little to little. Citizens are sick of politicians talking and taking pictures, tired of politics being wet papers and empty promises. They need, counsel, that words become facts that will improve their lives. And I warn you that in Citizens we will continue to insist until words and promises become reality. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, now has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.211.0	All right. Thank you, Members, Members. MP, confidence, transparency, control structures to the government, obviously. You talk to me about pillars of democracy – pillars of democracy. And this is what we do in this Parliament: to defend, above all, democracy and the right of everyone to defend and express their ideas. And, obviously, there is parliamentary control over the government's execution. And it is clear to me, moreover, that the information of the 70_million euros came to us, which, moreover, was added to a presupposition of mental salvation that made an incredible leap, for a very clear bet of the Government of the Government of Catalonia to promote policies in mental health, to improve attention, to improve accessibility and, above all, to adapt to this challenge in mental salvation that we have in our country, as they also have at world level. What we obviously didn't think was that we'd be in a pandemic. But the €70 million is there. We know that they have, however, also come to detail in these moments: in the primary of mental health – that they mean centres of mental health of adults, centres of mental health of children, programs of primary care in mental health –, 29, almost 30_million euros; in the internment, hospitalizations in programs of individualized services also, with hospitalization, programs and services and with partial hospitalization – that also includes hospitalization at home –, almost 19_million euros; in in interdepartmental programs, 14.7_million euros, and in community services in general – rehabilitation, care centres and follow-up to drugs, and also in the mine –, 9_million euros. Total, more than 70_million euros, most of them in the community part of mental health. Because this is the community idea: 321 spaces that we have in our country; 7,500 places of day care, attention, also, income; 5,590 professionals working the system in mental health. And with this vision: the community and the community. It's not just about salvation, but we need to act in the network, and that's a clear line: putting the person at the center of everything that I need, with this integral and integrated view. Therefore, this model of community mental salvation, to have a community that also promotes mental salvation, we deploy it based on three programs of specific attention to the community. The first of them, a program of mental health collaboration for primary care, where sixty-nine of the seventy-four adult mental health centers send professionals to primary care to make this incipient attention – give support to primary care, give tools, also, to primary care for this mental health attention to the whole community, to the general population, beyond the already diagnosed with a pathology. Second, an incipient psychosis program, sixty adult mental health centers also have specific human resources for incipient psychosis. And the third individualized support program, deployed to all centers. This is important – this is important. Conversion of day centres to community rehabilitation services. It is a change of look, a change of paradigm; in we have sixty-three with more than 402 professionals, and also the comprehensive approach program on cases of high-complexity mental salvation, which, as you know, is a new program started in this legislature to give hope to a life program as well. To say, these people of high complexity and their families, that there can be life and can have program. And so we link all existing resources. There is a mental health reversal of 458_million euros, 28_million more than the last assumption there was. And, obviously, we also found ourselves here, plus, the impact of the pandemic, so I'm not surprised that we haven't explained where the 70_millions are going, that there's no control over the government. We have had different motions here in Parliament, parliamentary questions and always, we have always returned, therefore, to this will; precisely, because they are pillars of democracy. Actually, it makes me laugh, huh? , as they defend these pillars of democracy say "information to things that are coming out these days; "information is much more than that. This is a Civil Guard report. True, this is a Civil Guard report, which, moreover, is only written on the basis of illegal escorts to politically pursue certain people. So don't tell that information, Congresswoman, don't tell that information. The information is that we are here to give it to Parliament. We talk about mental health and any subject that is of interest to Catalonia's citizens. In fact, there are no countries that can say that they have a suicide code risk like what we have in our country, and that comes from the hands of professionals, directly from the hands of professionals to prevent, and because those suicide attempts are not turning into suicides consumed. What's to be done more, what can we still do more? And as long as it is. And that's also what the same professionals explain to us. That is why we in Catalonia will have the plan to prevent suicide as a national plan, because we listen to those people not only in the first person, but also the associations of survival, and because we committed ourselves, on the World Day of Mental Health of the past year. We committed ourselves and that's how the Health Department is working with the sector, and I'm sure you know that. Moreover, with the impact of this epidemic, we have also been able to do, to assess how salvation is in time of confinement and, in this case, in the field of mental salvation..., with more than forty_ thousand people questioned, because we are interested in their response. And that's what we do with all the participation. And, in addition, two studies of the drug addictions and addictions network have been completed to find out more about the impact of the Covid on the population in these centres. And we place this priority not only on the suicide prevention plan, but also in this form of a national plan, but the post-Covid increase in the demand for mental health care, both in the general population and in the population with mental illness and addictions, will be great – and we know that. And you know that perfectly well. All the experts tell us, and therefore we have already started acting and writing it in the form of a plan some time ago. And I've said here a number of times that it's not a question of putting down plans for good and good, but that there must be changes that come to stay, because we know that, more than that, in the realm of mental salvation, this need will grow not only when this pandemic ends, but also later, at the end of this pandemic. Therefore, it was a totally necessary plan, framed in the strategic lines of the Pla director of mental health and addictions, accelerated for the pandemic. That's right, and we've commented on it a number of times here, that everything that we've already been explaining as a political pandemic has speeded us up. And, therefore, we run away from the idea of only shoal, but of changes that come to stay. Now they will obviously give a response to the Covid, but it will be like the needy of mental salvation that will also be postpandemic. Limitations of free circulation to people, new forms of social relations that we have to adopt, constant feeling of uncertainty, lack of predictability, have a psychological impact on the general population as well, beyond the population that already suffers mental pathology, and also on health professionals. And based on these three aspects, we have focused our priority on these moments. Protect mental and emotional salvation – not just mental salvation, but emotional salvation – from the general population with a clear community focus. Therefore, based, and starting also, in the primary attention of salvation. This is why the primary care enhancement also counts on this mental health enhancement with primary care. That's why we're taking mental health professionals to primary health care. Two, protecting the most vulnerable populations, and that's not just people who have pre-mental disorder pathology, but also, in general, childhood, adolescence, and people with chronic pathology, and also those with high complexity, who add their mental disorder to all of this. And third, give support to the health professionals to take care of their mental and emotional salvation. This is clearly important at these moments of pandemic, and here we are putting a lot of effort into it. I think it is essential to be able to take care of professionals and, above all, be building on this Covid and the impact of the pandemic this mental salvation that we need for this future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.212.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the now replica of the inquiry, Mrs.Victoria Navarro has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.213.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I've asked you four very clear things and you haven't answered any of them. Where were the 70_million Comin of 2017? Because the numbers you gave me are those of the 18th and the 19th, but you know as well as I do that in the 17th the 70_millions were not used – or at least those 70_millions did not reach the suppliers. When I ask you about information, I'm asking you about the results and balance sheets. If that's not considered sufficient information for the citizenry, which is the activity data and the economic data of the suppliers... that's information. Information is also the photos and audios that have come to us, but, indeed, as you have said, we are still in cars and we will be looking forward to seeing how the research takes place. The third question I asked you, and you did not answer me, is that I asked you how you will stop discriminating against people with mental health problems. Functional plans are very well, but look, that is that you are publishing functional plans from your own department, where, for example, you talk about that to carry out this incipient psychosis program you need five professionals for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants, but in territories where there are three hundred_ thousand inhabitants you are hiring two professionals. So, the plans are very good, the functional plans are very good, and all this that has explained that they are your ideas are very good. But since these ideas do not correlate with the number of professionals hired to serve people, what we find is that visits are once every few months, far below what professional experts, when drafting functional plans, recommend. And that's how the Master Plan for Mental Health and Addictions is working, with very good documents, but then, when you have to put into practice budget allocations and professional endowments, they make everyone who can afford it look for life in private; I say, if you can afford it, because, if not, what you have are visits each I don't know how many months. Actually, I think you have no doubt that the suicide risk code is not a suicide prevention plan, it's a risk detection plan. If we then divert them to mental health centers where visits are every so many months, we are not being able to make a suicide prevention plan, just detecting cases of risk, and you hope you know it. The fourth thing I have asked you, which has not answered me, is what you intend to do to fulfil what this Parliament urges you to do. You know as well as I do that you are not submitting the reports on the implementation of the resolutions or the motions that we are adopting. Some of us have approved them for more than two years and have four months to present them. And that's a lack of trust, because citizens expect you to be held accountable. I am saying, it is that they are accountable, the Government, to this Parliament, which has urged you. And, of course, it values the effort that professionals are making. Indeed, professionals have been making a lot of effort for many years, because everyone is doing much more than they can. We were talking about a suicide prevention plan, and that's what we're here for and what we need to get you to be aware of the importance of moving forward. Yesterday was November 4th. It's been a year since Isabel took her life. His son Román has decided to transform his suffering into something useful for all those who come after him, and is gathering signatures to get him started in all the autonomous communities of Spain, including the autonomous community of Catalonia, a suicide prevention plan. Many survivors are contacting you, and allow me to read some of your testimonies in the time I have left. "Unfortunately, my sister committed suicide sixteen months ago; she threw herself from a sixth floor of her house. I have also read what happened to you with your mother – referring to Román – "I have lived with a frightening fear from the age of twelve, more or less, to the age of forty, in which all this happened, and that I fulfilled his goal, which was to end his suffering, and in the end he got it. We're sorry we weren't able to help her. « My mother has been depressed all her life. A few years ago I feared for his life for many months and, as you say, they gave him the first appointment for the psychologist in public health for three months since he asked for it and, as a result, every three months. And if for what it is that day something happened that you couldn't come and we missed the visit, again for three more months. It is shameful that in the face of something so sensitive and so important, no measures and more means are taken so that doctors can treat people as they deserve. It is for them, counselor, that I raise my voice in this interpellation. They need a suicide prevention plan, budgeted and resourced. Otherwise, it's wet paper. They don't need words, they need to put resources in every health region when they get out of here to implement it and to support survivors. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to close the inquiry, has the word again the councilwoman Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.215.0	Yes, Congresswoman, and I said it before: suicide prevention plan in the form of a national plan. It's important, we've compromised ourselves. This Parliament is going to compromise it. And, therefore, in weeks we will have this plan fully developed. I think that's important, don't make us aware. Actually, we are, we are out of the hands of these people that you have given you here, and that many times have been able, therefore, to ask all of us in different meetings, in different encounters. And that's a reality, it's a reality in suicide, it's a reality in different mental disorders that we find ourselves in. And so, that's why I said: it's a priority not just the current approach, to improve accessibility, as you say, but also to prepare this future well. Actually, we'll have a lot more case studies of mental pathology, have the shape that I have, from now on in the future, whether it's the consequence of the pandemic or not. But the pandemic we know for sure will have affected emotionally and, therefore, much more at risk of developing pathology in many people and in the general population. And that's why we're looking at it all, without abandoning this pot that I've told you at the last part of my intervention, health professionals. We'll always be at your side helping because you can't develop your mental pathology. Also, so, obviously, people who already have some mental disorder and, then, the general population. These are our three priorities. And this national suicide prevention plan, which has taken into account the first person and has taken into account survivors, so, obviously, it has worked with entities, and you know it too, that there have been many conversations by the people of the department, and a few weeks from now we can also have. Taking over people I think is also one of the foundational pillars of democracy. You started talking about democracy. Grabbing people is, too. At all times, our obsession is here, giving tools, giving data, always explaining why, and we have tried to do so in the management of this epidemic. There has also been a certain opportunity, that is, emergencies are not just crises to contain, but opportunities to build sustainable health systems, better health systems, robust health systems, improved health systems. We strive daily to maintain and improve this public system of health equity and universal, and I have always said – and you have heard me say many times – that it is not fairness because we have an adjective, but because we are constantly seeking equity, because you do not have equity by definition, search for gender equity, seek social equity, seek territorial equity, constantly. Otherwise, you can never say you have a system of equity. You're about constant. And also a universal system, which you did not vote in favour, in this Parliament, did not vote in favour, in this Parliament, and then you also ask here, with all the right, and, obviously, I can share, therefore, that there is no going back and that everyone stays. And you did not vote in this Parliament for a ‘yes round to universal salvation; you did not do it, you did not do it. Therefore, in times of crisis here we are more than ever, because we have to be the protector of this society that is staining the impact of an epidemic, and the health system gives us this essential coverage, precisely, because it has these characteristics, because it is universal, because it has the vocation to leave no one behind, because it has the vocation to meet the need. All that is happening to us must also be a better opportunity, individually, for the more self-awareness of our emotional state, which many people have also added to the importance of maintaining a good state of emotional salvation; institutionally, to strengthen the mental health services of our country, and socially, because parties also like what you represent, who did not vote for this law of universalization of salvation, as they now at least see the importance of the common good. As at least now they see this importance of the common good. And you know perfectly well, more than impact, don't you? , to have a large department, where the number of parliamentary initiatives is great..., plus, we've had the impact of the pandemic. But I am proud that we have many parliamentary initiatives and questions about coming, because I mean that society as a whole is interested in health issues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.216.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about primary care]] [[300-00324/12]] Next, we turn to the agenda item, which is the inquiry to the Government on primary care, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.217.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor, MPs and MPs, in normal conditions, is to say, on the margins of the pandemic and the situation we have, primary care is a foundational trunk of the health system. Primary care is the great gateway to the health care system. However, there are still minorities, and primary care has, or should have, an important resolu tional capacity. By the year 2019, and I think it's a big enough amount, it was 48_million, roughly, the visits to primary care, and so this gives us an idea of the importance it has for the system, but also for the citizenry. And we carry a few years with disabilities, with disabilities and a slow but progressive deterioration of the service: reduction of professionals, reduction of hours of care, scarcity of some specialties – pediatrics, for example; we had the opportunity to make an inquiry also about the specific problem of pediatrics–, scarce renovation of equipment... All of this has forced us to reorder centers, group services, and concentrate patients. And all this has caused, too, that the waiting time to be visited by the family doctor was longing for the object, that on more than one occasion we had approved here, in the same Parliament, that it had to be a maximum of forty-four hours in order to have a visit with the family doctor. In the end, all this, what it has carried, what it has been carrying to the length of time, is a reduction of the ability to resolve to the primary attention. And when that happens, the patient, logically, resorts to hospital emergencies. And the result we know. The collapse of emergency services, hours of waiting, spent with patients... and then we analyze the emergency data, the data that the health care system offers us, and we see that more than half of the emergencies at the hospital could have been resolved to primary care. Tension and pressure on the patients. Tension and pressure on the professionals. In Catalonia we have – I don't know if I've figured out and it's the perfectly current xifra – 362 primary care centres, more than six hundred local consultants distributed throughout the territory. In relation to primary care centres, out of 362 there are eighty-five indirect care centres, and the rest are managed directly by the Catalan Health Institute. And at this point it would please us, apart from dogmas and prejudices, that we can make an evaluation of the functioning and results of these centers of primary care managed indirectly. But this was the situation that we had in poor times, as I used to say at the time of the Metges College, that is, before the pandemic, and that required, before the pandemic, decisive and firm actions by the department to try to correct this situation. Obviously, with the pandemic, the situation has worsened. Primary care centres, primary care emergency centres and closed consultancies; when they re-opened, some have changed the times, some are paying attention..., there are closed CUPs, there are CAPs that pay attention to emergencies of twenty-four hours..., I mean, there has been quite a big deal. But, in addition, nine tasks have been added to the primary attention: screening, screening, screening, diagnostic tests, influenza vaccine, Covid's vaccine, residents, schools... And all this, obviously, has an impact on the service, it's obvious. I think they value it, I don't know if in a 25, 26, 27_percent increase in activity, but who suffers the most, so, obviously, they are the usual users of primary care. And I can fix myself, therefore, with those who are certainly still more common, who are those patients who suffer chronicles, who are usually great people, of which, in these circumstances many of them have not seen the meth of March. Fortunately, they have spoken to it by phone, but it is obvious that the tranquility that a great person inspires a telephone consultation is not the same as a face-to-face visit. We agree that an effort has been made in telephone attention. As a matter of fact, it's like, when the attention is from the CAP to the user; the opposite is harder – we'll talk about it. And he's also making an effort in digital tools. But all these aspects, but useful for the great people, precisely, are not. Therefore, we must also think about this. We don't have to be quiet thinking that with phone or phone attention it's enough to cover the service. And home care, which could be another alternative, is not in the best moments, the result of the pandemic situation. Therefore, all this forces us to rethink many things. To give a good service today, but also to prepare a primary care for tomorrow, reinforced or transformed – the words are a little alike –, dimensioned to the service waiting for citizenship in normal conditions. And it's in this brand that, first of September, we know, it's sent and we see that the Enforcing and Transformation Plan of primary care circulates. And that's what's been sent from the council, and that's what's been done... we've seen some management. The plan consists of two pages [[the orator shows the chamber a full]] A full of two caresses, two short pages, right? I four measures, four. I do not say that the four measures are not important, but they are four measures. One, in relation to the professionals. Distinguish, and it seems to us well, professionals from the conjunctural point of view to address the phenomenon Covid : 1,400 professionals immediately and, from the year came, 2,400 professionals more structurally. Well, how, what about where? We'd like to know what distribution they're planning from all these professionals. Then they say: "We will analyze the work processes of the primary care centers and send people to the CAP to analyze the processes they are doing. Home, do they really think that now – now – is the time to analyze the processes that are taking place in primary care centers? Now's the time? With the tension situation that they're patenting at this point? Then he says: « We will buy technological tools – which already seems good to us, and now I will make a little comment to respect – « to increase telephone attention. Well, that's important, because contacting CAPs by phone is extraordinarily complicated. And with 061, I'm not even telling you. Now, I don't think the increase in phone call needs to be the solution to the problems. Telematics tools. Listen to me, all our support to develop the telematic tools. We have more doubts about the video consultation, which is also an element that is on the table – we have more doubts. Why? Because both the video consultation and the phone call require there to be a synchronization between the user and the person who has it, right? And, therefore, they can have exactly the same difficulties as phone call. In change, telematic tools, the eConsultation and the My Greeting app, which are good tools, allow an asynchronous communication, right? , and this facilitates communication many times. Now, these tools... I found data from 2018. If there's more recently I'll celebrate, right? 2018 made them serve a 0.1_percent of professionals and a 1.1_percent of users. I mean, there's a way to go. And, therefore – and I will finish my first intervention here – I do ask them to take advantage of the moment; that this tool must have had a very remarkable increase in users who are the result of the pandemic, because it is practically the only way to contact the primary care centre. But I'm telling you this, that we're taking advantage of it, because the same thing says: you can register online, but the moment the pandemic situation ends, we're going down and you're going to have to go through the CAP and do it personally. Home, so since they're telematics tools, maybe we'll give you the log online. Then I'll continue with the last element I have left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.219.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, MP, look, I want to take advantage of this inquiry about primary care to begin by thanking the pocket of our country's primary care professionals, very conscious – very conscious – of the pressure they are living every day at the consultations. But I wouldn't say so much to the consultations, but to his daily life, because they've changed the consultations from up to down, and that means an admirable ability to adapt that they've been able to demonstrate. And in the end, here we overcome the crises and we overcome the stages and we overcome, so these hard times if we show resilience, adapt ourselves, know how to respond to the needs at every moment, building this future as well, assuming tasks that make de_mesos– de_mesos– it was unimaginable that, in the health system, but also in the primary attention, there are tasks that are so important for life and for controlling this epidemic as they are now, acquiring new dynamics that, while they may be planted in this transformation mark that you also mentioned, have also accelerated at this time, with different forms of attention. And you've been talking about non-faced attention. I wouldn't just frame her into this. I would say different forms of care according to the needs of each person; according to the professionals how they can respond better to each person. Reading professional roles as well; therefore, reorganizing. And you're asking me a question – which I'll come in later – about whether it's time to see the organization processes of primary care teams. And I say to him, "Hey, now is the time, I'd just miss it. And so is this increase in resolution. In the end, the primary is the referendum of salvation of our citizens and it will always be so as to have the capacity to solve the problems and questions of salvation of our citizens. You have framed it very well in a historical context and in a current context, in a_marc of the pandemic. The embattery that you assume, not that you assumed, but that you still suppose this pandemic for primary care now is enormous, but also the power and impulse that from the department we have wanted the primary to have in this transformation; and that is why we are all going to strengthen primary care – to all, more than ever. It was a priority of the legislature, and more than ever now we are all going to be able to make it more resolute, more accessible, and also have this ability, therefore, to give out in a context of pandemic. That's why the proactivity you said is important, isn't it? This phone call. It's very different when it's proactive and when it's the meth, meth, the referral nurse of this user who calls home and asks and follows up on their chronic pathologies of their families. And we were able to live it, surely, all of us in our house, this proactivity of follow-up, to say: "Hey, the first one has changed us from top to bottom, from top to bottom. We can't handle it the same way, we need to differentiate circuits. We're looking for spaces with gatherings. And also thank the collaboration of all the assemblies of our country because the primary can continue to develop its pocket, but we are here, more than ever. We are here, so I begin with this thanks to the professionals of primary care. And that was reflected in the presupposition, but obviously with the pandemic it has a great impact on our system. The primary attention, in the end, is at the front line. We can tell you the gateway, we can tell you what we want, but it's the first line that also impacts the Covid – that also impacts the Covid – with these people with symptoms, where we put the reinforcements to detect these first contacts, to identify contacts, follow the tracks and cut the transmission chains. There's no CAP in Catalonia today. There are three CAPs, one that is in work, and therefore has been derived to the professional and attention to another place, another because of the real material impossibility of being able to separate the two Covid circuits and not Covid because of lack of space, and the other, which is already being solved with some modules outside that will allow it to continue the activity in the same place having these modules. So, the service is there, the professionals are all there. And I'm also aware that, despite the difficulties, no? , of accessibility for the other gang of the citizenry there, all the tools that have been deployed, and you have said it, telephones, telematics, videoconsulta... And that's why we're incorporating technological tools, to improve and obviously not lose a pulse of accessibility. The eConsultation existed. You donated the 2018 data, and there were few professional and little citizenry, which you still accessed at that time. The panorama has changed everything – everything – and now the eConsultation is very resolute, it is very accessible to the citizen, like the My Greeting app, where you can consult not only the result of a Covid proof that you could do, but obviously, any analytical, any report, whether from the primary or from any point of our health system. And primary care, as you said, has taken on nine truly important functions in this epidemic. Not only the clinical diagnosis, but also with diagnostic evidence, the clinical diagnosis with pulmonary echoes, with other tests, there were also plaques in the first moment, but also diagnostic tools such as PCR, and now the antigen tests. With the community interventions that we have deployed for this epidemic control, with these massive cracks that we have made in the barrels, where the primary care was there on the side of the community, they were captains, they were coordinated and they are coordinated for primary care in collaboration with the SEM, in collaboration with the joints, in collaboration with the Red Cree, in collaboration with everything... but coordinated and led for primary care we have been able to make these community interventions, with the identification of contacts, as I said, by Covid managers, with the follow-up of cases and putting focus on the most vulnerable collectivities, and also in the care of the residents. And all this we have to do, obviously, by putting on the strength that it takes. In the case of residences, we came to have up to eight hundred professionals dedicated in the first peak of pandemic to care for residences. We have now structured with 450 health professionals in structure, 163 family medicine and community medicine and 270 infirmary, with more than 15_million euros. And the reinforcement and transformation of the primary, which is very important to strengthen it and transform it as it touches, as it responds to people's needs. We have already incorporated 3,258 professionals, from March to September– 3,258 people. Faculties, diplomats, that is to say, infirmary, middle-grade technicians, senior-grade technicians and administration staff, and you serve in their large majority, taking on this job as Covid manager, right? , of this leadership also in the pandemic, of response and coordination with the schools, such as the Covid school referents, the Recos, that in the day. And, obviously, all this accompanied by this 300_million euro assumption that will be deployed until 2022, is to say, it's not just for this year, but until 2022. We deploy these 300_million euros to maximize professional skills, to adapt our roles, to redefine and adapt processes, and to coordinate with all actors involved. This is a full-fledged, four-object primary plan that has four clear objectives: accessibility, resolution capacity, citizen satisfaction – that is to say, looking at what the citizenship of our primary attention, this first line of attention and this reference to our citizenship needs – and a real integration between different levels. Videoconsultants are with patients, but videoconsultants are also a fan among professionals, and therefore the reality is, in order to resolve it, to integrate between different levels of care. And I'm going to go more into that aspect that you've been telling us before, to deploy from the base, because from every primary care team, it's not just process analysis, it's an analysis of what's needed to act today, it's really huge, right now, on these resources that you've already started to get primary care to be able to deal with all this, that's huge, it's really huge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, has the new word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.221.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, there was one element left, one of the actions of the reinforcement and transformation plan – it didn't give me time to comment on it before – which is that of the preparation of our space, and which you made reference to, in collaboration with the municipalities and which are now currently being used to do PCR tests and to make influenza vaccinations with different formats – civic centers, carps, etc. They solve the problem of space, but they do not solve the problem of professionals. No, no, Because it needs the same, if not more professional, to be able to divert these actions to addresses outside the primary care centers. And the proof that this is so – the proof that this is so – is that they now charge the teachers to teach the kids to choose to take the tests. And that they'll blow up the sun. Excuse me, I don't think that's serious. The truth, huh? I don't think that's gonna happen. In the first place, as far as the teachers are concerned, they already have enough work to do in the current circumstances as to why they should be responsible for the students doing the tests correctly. Listen to me, we disagree with this measure and, moreover, we disagree and give it alternatives; plant them and use them. We've told you about the principle, years ago we've been telling you, and more intensely now. We have 3,200 health facilities distributed equitably throughout the territory with health professionals in the front: they are the pharmacies. Let's keep them in mind. I see that they were taken into account at a time of anxiety during the months of March, April and May, which therefore required certain actions to be taken by the pharmaceutical companies. We also take them into account when they can be useful to us, or we also take into account dental clinics, as they gave them from the Odontólegs College – they told us this morning. The Odontòlegs College in April offered them a collaboration. They didn't even answer them out of courtesy. Today they have again offered the collaboration, the Odontólegs College. They're health professionals, too. So, in the accounts of looking for alternatives to these characteristics, what they do is teach the students how to do the tests themselves. Listen to me, the truth, it doesn't seem like a scrap. Another question. When it is possible to produce – which is normal and logical that it is possible to produce – collapses in public laboratories to analyze the results of PCRs, look for alternatives, which there are – sure, sure. And if in a given territorial area... what we can't do is test and say from here to seven days will have the result; it's not operational. And neither does the citizenry think it's a good service when it's tested and told seven days to get the result. Listen, so maybe it's worth resorting to private labs that have the ability to do these tests and solve these tests. I don't mean systemically, I say on time, but we use all the resources we have in our abyss. You started your intervention with the support of the primary care professionals, and I add it to it, and I'm convinced that all groups in the chamber are adding to it, of course, because the pressure they have is what they have. And I made reference to the great people. Say, some have not seen it since March, and some, hopefully – in the systematically, huh? – some, fortunately, could have spoken to it by phone. But the most common expression is not: "Look, without asking, the family doctor called me to know how I am, but the most frequent expression is: "It's been a week I've been trying to talk to the family doctor and I can't talk to the family doctor, or because they don't answer me to the CAP or because they don't give me the call back. This is the reality, and this is the largest number of cases. Of CAPs there will be no locks, but emergency centers of primary care, yes – yes. There are emergency centres of primary care shut down. The eConsult, I repeated what I said before, let's take advantage of it. We do not lose the capital of the people who have had the patience to register online because when the pandemic is over we say to them: now it is no longer worth, now we give you down and, if you want to continue using it, you have to go to the CAP, fill a paper, sign and then we will give back from high. No, this is not telemedicine, nor is it the proper use of digital tools. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. Previously she referred to MP Navarro in relation to universality. Here it is – I have said it other times – that universality is not sharing health care targets, it is caring for people when they need it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.222.0	Thank you, Congressman. For this point, you've got the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.223.0	Well, then, you were talking about us, and you're right. And I said that, and I very much appreciate the gatherings of this country, which have stood at the side of this search for health professionals because they can develop, for example, the influenza campaign under security conditions and with the separation of all circuits. A grip campaign that we have to move forward, that we have doubled in assumptions, and that with these joint spaces we already carry more than 35_per_cent more doses than the same period of the previous year. Therefore, the volumes have increased in a spectacular way, based on these volumes and on the work done between the Department of Education, the Department of Health – which at the moment we said we would leave neither the teachers nor the students alone before the exhibitions. I would say to you: do not disagree so quickly– do not disagree so quickly–, calm–– calm–, what we said is the auto show– which we certainly explained on October 18th. That there are already explained videos, that this has been done, that now will be the formation in all the centers, that we will go to the centers, to the institutes, in this case, because it is from secondary, when there are cases and it is necessary to do the screening in their stable groups of coexistence. We'll go, there'll be until this is developed, because we're here and this will last a long time. So, calm down – calm down – we will solve all the doubts that arise. If this is proposed on the part of the public health authorities and spoken to everyone, it is because it can be done, and this is not to the detriment of not using pharmaceuticals. If it is that the pharmacies for the citizenry are a clear agent of salvation, they are community in all rules, they are a community in all rules. We give primary and community attention, when we talk about mental salvation, we talk about community mental salvation. Pharmacies are community-based. So, yes – so, yes. And with the pharmacies we have many conversations to see how we integrate well circuits, how they also help in the management of the epidemic and beyond – and beyond. In fact, we've made different initials with the pharmacies, and I think that now is a matter of ordering, and that, that always costs..., it's not easy to connect information systems and everything that anyone really wants because the pharmacies can also provide, because it's three-thousand points that we have in our country of health referents and that, together, obviously, with primary care, so they can help us a lot. Why deploy from the base? Why deploy from the base to primary care? Based on the concrete needs of each primary care team, namely, space, technological tools, professional tools, what follows, under some guidelines and objectives of this primary care plan, we deploy cross-cutting deployment and follow-up teams to these primary care teams because of these four programs – which are the support for public health activities, attention to chronicity, support for managed and technological residences and support – all that the teams need. Each team is equipped with a different shape, has different spaces, and therefore all have according to what they need. Three of these programs are structural–structural–, and one is epidemic management specifically with this support for public health actions. On October 30, I signed the resolution to be able to hire more professionals, and this is already available to our centers. And this is done with the Departmental Commission for the Strategic Primary and Community Care Impulse. Why? Because we marked it as a parliamentary priority, we created a strategic direction of primary care and we created the departmental commission. For the first time, it is concrete and publishes a single portfolio of primary and community care services, as well as the decade of the primary and community care model, which reverses all strategies, and is also done with consensus and participatory work. Concretely, publish the unique portfolio of services in healthcare care to accessible and resolvable citizens: prevention and promotion of health, information and epidemiological surveillance, serve all ages, from childhood to great people, adolescence, attention to the woman, chronics, great people, identification of complexity, residential centers, detection and attention to gender violence, palliative care, mental health and addictions, as I mentioned earlier, and also oral greeting, as this Parliament asked. Everyone, with primary attention, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on corruption in the Administration of the Generality]] [[300-00322/12]] We now turn to the fourteenth of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on corruption to the Administration of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. In order to explain the question, Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.225.0	Thank you, President. Mr Sole, Foreign Action and Transparency Adviser to the Government of the Generalitat, this inquiry could certainly be addressed to other members of the Government. The truth is that I would almost tell you that I am ill aware that it is up to you to answer this question, because I believe that this inquiry calls upon the whole Government of the Generalitat, asks you, of course, but also calls on Mr Aragonès, the current President-in-Office, the Vice-President-in-Office of the President of the Government, also calls on Mr Chakir El Homrani, who is a Councillor for Labour and Social Affairs, and also calls on Mrs Alba Vergés, the Health Councillor. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is an inquiry that it would be fair for you to answer it in a coral way; you answer on behalf of the Government, that is how the parliamentary procedure works, and therefore welcome are your answers. It is true that I tell you that you know me very badly because to give an answer today to this Parliament about the amount of rottenness and moral misery that we have been experiencing these days through the media that emerges from the conversations of a strong man of Republican Left, a former councillor of Republican Left during the tripartite years with the Socialist Party of Catalonia, because I certainly understand that it should not be a pleasure dish for anyone. Because the conversations we've had these days are truly nauseating. For the citizens of Catalonia to hear that representatives of the separatist world, of the separatist parties, who, moreover, apparently, from what is apparent from these judicial investigations, it seems that they were commissioned by the Government of the Generalitat to manage the health crisis, to manage the pandemic in the shadow, so to speak... Mr Xavier Vendrell, Mr David Madí, Mr Oriol Soler had the mandate, by the Government of the Generalitat, to manage the health crisis. And they have certainly done so that we could label it immoral, when we know conversations in which Mr Vendrell says that independence, in his words, separatism, "has to come out with the advantage of this crisis, of the crisis that is generating unprecedented pain in Catalan society, because" if they do not come out with the advantage they cannot mark a package before society. It seems to me, really, absolutely unacceptable in moral terms, and the truth is that I would like a response from the Government of the Generalitat much more forceful, much braver and much clearer and consistent in relation to those words of Mr Vendrell. Mr Vendrell's statements are truly the demonstration that what you called the Catalan oasis with the supremacist pretension, with the claim of superiority over the rest of the Spaniards that this was, therefore, an oasis of cleanliness, transparency, a site, a place where there was virtually no corruption, unlike what was happening in the rest of Spain, you have turned it into a laudation of corruption, of trafficking in influences, of covetousness and of prevarication, among other crimes. Certainly, I think it must be said that the news that we have heard these days, the conversations that you intend to attribute to the cloacas of the State, that you intend to attribute to persecution, to the alleged persecution to separatism, etc., I want to remind you – and I believe that the citizens of Catalonia have the right to know that – that they start from telephone conversations intervened by court order to representatives of their parties; they are not journalistic speculations. I remind you, gentlemen of the separatist parties, that you have assembled us here, in this Parliament, full for example, journalistic speculations, journalistic information concerning the Emeritus King and you have considered it essential to bring to this Parliament a full monographic to speak of those investigations, of those journalistic speculations, let us remember, about the Emeritus King. On the other hand, today it seems that the line of response of the Government is at all times that what they say about Xavier Vendrell, David Madí, Oriol Soler, the conversations, I insist, from the moral and political point of view absolutely unacceptable, that are..., are part of the sewers of the State. No, no, neither cloacas nor God who founded it; they are conversations of very representative figures of Convergence and Republican Left. Among others, for example, Mr.Víctor Terradellas, who is the man who was the representative, the responsible for the international relations of Convergence. Is that a man of no importance? Mr Vendrell was a counselor, I insist, with Esquerra Republicana in the governments of the tripartite, exactly as was, for example, Councillor Ausàs, who was convicted of the crime of tobacco smuggling, and who shared government on that occasion with Esquerra Republicana, with the PSC and with Initiative per Catalunya. I, Mr Solé, ask you, logically in accordance with the parliamentary procedures, to know your opinion on these statements that Mr Vendrell makes, on the suspicion, rather than founded, on the basis, at least, of the conversations that emerge from this police investigation, that Mr Vendrell might be benefiting from a favored treatment by Councilwoman Vergés, with whom he held a meeting of up to three hours, a three-hour lunch in the middle of the pandemic to talk to him about a contract that had been fraudulently awarded to him and that, logically, Mr Vendrell was unwilling to assume that the Catalan court – an administrative court, which, in this case, does what it does is to determine that this contract was actually awarded fraudulently... Mr Vendrell did not accept that verdict and spoke with his influences, with Mrs Vergés to arrange that matter. Certainly, I believe that everything we have known these days is a scandal of such proportions that, in my opinion and in the opinion of my parliamentary group, it would bring down any government in any region of any democratic country in the world. It is an unprecedented scandal, an absolutely unacceptable scandal, and especially when we are in times of pandemic. These gentlemen, Mr Vendrell, Mr Madí and Mr Soler have been asked by the Government of the Generalitat to control, manage the pandemic, manage the homes of elderly people. This morning I heard the intervention of my colleague Elisabeth Valencia with genuine indignation, and that indignation is shared by many Catalans, because we find it unacceptable what has been said in those conversations about the residences of elderly people, which Mr Vendrell said, directly, that had put them at the feet of the horses. It is unacceptable that such a serious crisis has been managed in this way by the Government of the Generalitat. The matter, I insist, is of immense gravity and you are going to pretend, as always, to say that this is a police assembly, that this has to do with the sewers of the state. I say to you, Mr Solé, that this is exactly what Mr Jordi Pujol said when he asked himself, angry, in that very peculiar and characteristic intervention in which he said: "What the hell is this about the UDEF? Soon after, he knew when he had to admit to all Catalans that he was a tax evader. He also knew what justice and the rule of law was like when Mr.Artur Mas put his hand in the fire for his treasurer, Mr. Osàcar, saying that Mr. Osàcar was absolutely innocent. Four days ago Mr Osàcar recognized the corrupt plot of 3_per_cent, recognized the pituitary and money laundering done systematically in Democratic Convergence and admitted that Mr Mas was aware of all this. Therefore, you are playing, let's say, short-lived, to win gallinaceous flying battles that then end up being exploited in your hands. You may be able to overcome the upcoming elections, but in any case, it is clear that every time there has been a police investigation, or almost every time there has been a police investigation – then we will see what comes out of them – you have had to end up admitting that, in fact, you have turned Catalonia into a real lodazal of corruption. Unfortunately, these episodes do not seem to deserve the importance that they deserve for the rest of Catalonia, for the rest of the citizens of Catalonia. Today, in fact, before this inquiry, we met, yesterday and today, two talks by Mr Vendrell, Mr Terradellas, Mr Madí and Mr Soler. One of them, Mr. Terradellas and Mr. Vendrell, is literally infected. In it Mr. Terradellas says, literally – I insist, Mr. Terradellas, not of course our admired and well remembered Josep Tarradellas, but Mr. Terradellas, Victor Terradellas, responsible for the external relations of Mr. Puigdemont or of Democratic Convergence, as it is called today..., said that the process, independence, "neededed a hundred dead. I believe that the citizens of Catalonia must be told how you have been ruling from the Government of the Generalitat, saying tremendous things like that in order to complete your separation process with the rest of Spain they needed a hundred dead. It seems to me an absolutely unacceptable thing that outrages any citizen of Catalonia. You can try to make him sordina, of course our job as opposition is to try to let the Catalans as a whole know how you spend them from the government. Another topic we have met today is a conversation between Mr Madí and the ineffable Pilar Rahola, the omnipresent Pilar Rahola, where Mrs Rahola tells Mr Madí that it is an indecency that limits her number of hours on TV3, which is an omnipresent person, and she complains that she has a few minutes left. And he even goes on to say that Mr. Puigdemont has mediated for her to stay there. It is unacceptable, in a democratic environment, for a lady to demand the former President of the Generalitat to mediate for her to continue on television. From here we call for Mrs Rahola to stop, in fact, having a presence on TV3 when a political commissioner demands that the director of the channel continue to leave Mrs Rahola as long as she wants. Thank you, Mr. Solé. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Sole, has now the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.227.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. MPs, MPs, MPs Martín Blanco, I already know where I want to take you, but I did not get in your tempest, I did not get in your tempt to go where I want to take you, because I do not know if you have come here today in the condition of deputy, in the condition of investigator or in the condition of judge. In any case, I will explain to you how the Government of the Generality has worked, how the Government of the Generality works, and therefore this evidence that its usual practice when occupying this faristol is to use these concepts of misinformation, these concepts of lack of transparency, these concepts of corruption of the Government of the Generality to hide the lack of political project. I told you today, I told you the other day to answer the oral question, and I'll follow you: you have to rethink your political project and not use these concepts to store this weakened. They accuse us of being opaque, accusing us of being little transparent and accusing us of being corrupt, and therefore with this repeated speech you want the society to believe that the Government of the Generality is little transparent. But you know perfectly well that's not true, and I've shown it to you and I'll continue to show it to you today another time, and we'll do it as often as you need through this faristol. Why, do you know what's going on? That you make good that phrase that you say repeat a thousand times a lie turns it into truth. Actually, a lie said a thousand times is a thousand times lied. And so, you know, I repeat, that his speech is an empty speech, it's a long speech from reality and, although you don't want to recognize it, this government acts and will continue to act and has acted responsibly and transparently. And in any case, the parties are going to deny them this version that you here to this Parliament. And I'll set him a series of examples. The international transparency indexes place the Government of the Generality in prominent positions, both the Dyntra and the Dynamic Transparency Index, as the International Transparency in Spain place the Administration of the Generality as the second most transparent of all public administrations of the Spanish State. Therefore, this is a demonstration of the good work being done and, therefore, this does not stand up to us, but encourages us to continue working and to be better every day. And not only that, I already advanced them to the control session that the Generality was accepted as a member of the international network of the Open Government Partnership, that entity of international recognition of prestige that recognizes the good work of governments, in this case, of the Government of the Generality, in matters of data opening, open government, civic empowerment, combating corruption and taking advantage of the new technologies to strengthen governance. An international entity of recognizable trajectory that is formed by 146 members of the world's defence, between governments, states and civil society. In fact, our candidacy has been collected for the Transparent Government Network – a totally cross-cutting network –, various joints and institutions from all over Catalonia, and endorsed for the City against Corruption Observers. And, therefore, the fact of forming a part as the Government of the Generality, as the country, of the OGP, places Catalonia at the first world level, at the first international level in the field of transparency. Therefore, you have in doubt these evidences in this Faristol, but what they demand is that they look outside, that they listen – I also said it at the control session – because these bodies of recognizable international trajectory appreciate the good work done so far. In fact, these recognitions don't come out of nothing, they don't come out of one day for another, but they arrive thanks to the effort and the work done over many years to implement this project of transparency and open government that has already begun in its moment the Romeva Councillor, and that we continue to unfold. In fact, the Government of Catalonia works as an open government because transparency and free access to public information are intrinsic to democracy, they are part of the DNA of any democratic society, and for us it is a fundamental pillar of this government. And for this reason, I value all the actions that we've driven and that we're still pushing. We have created the Register of Interest Groups in Catalonia, which I hope you, as a Member, or as a Member, will do when it is appropriate. We have also created the Digital Citizen Participation Platform Decision, or the same transparency portal of the Transparency Government Network. As you know, we also have the transparency portal of the Generality, where we publish everything required by the Law of Transparency, but, in addition, everything we consider to be of interest to the citizenry: government agendas, agendas of the high offices, declarations of assets, public contracts, subsidies. And not just that. What we do from the Government of the Generality is to promote active advertising, the right of access to public information and open data, because what we have very clearly is that we need to promote accountability, control over government action, the assessment of public policies and the participation and involvement of citizens in decision-making. Precisely, this very year we approved the Fight against Corruption and Empowerment Strategy for Public Integrity, which specifically twenty-five actions are being implemented at these times, and which will be implemented in the next two years. And, precisely, this very same one we celebrated in this Parliament the Anti-Corruption Summit, which was organized here in Parliament, and which I think I remember you also participated in. So what I can tell you is that we are transparent and relentless against corruption, not because we like to say it, but because we believe in this value, we believe in this system of governance, a governance based on transparency, democracy and that is useful and prone to citizenship. Proof of this, another example that I set before it, is the opening of data that we had to finish during the management of the Covid-19, putting to the service of the citizenry data in the spheres of salvation, in the spheres of the economy and in the social spheres. We have explained this on various occasions and, therefore, with our own will, not because you asked us for it, because we understand that this is a duty we have as an institution, as the Government of the Generality. And let me tell you that I'm sorry that you used these elements, that you used the pandemic management to put in doubt a responsible management and a transparent management. In duel. Because these are times of greatest difficulty, of greatest complexity. These are times when any institution, any administration should unite efforts beyond the ideological diversity that we may have, and which is perfectly understood and understandable in a Parliament that represents citizenship. Therefore, I say to you that as the Government of the Generality we are proud of our work, and we do not store it, we do not store it in any case, although you may not say it in some of the places where they govern, and then I can give you some examples. Do you know what the good transparency exercise is? Do you know what politics is? It is to do what the Government of the Generality does: to come to this faristol, to come to this Parliament and to give explanations, despite the fact that we have situations of the greatest complexity. It is that the Vergés Councillor, the Health Councillor, come here and give explanations and arguments why they are taking decisions or why they are taking other decisions. To come to this cliff to account, to account for the government's management, and we do, and we will do as many shots as we need, because they owe us to the citizenry, the government is given to the citizenry, and at times of greatest complexity is when we have to give more explanations than ever. Therefore, you, when you ask us this question... We, I, in concrete terms, take it as an opportunity, an opportunity to explain to us, to explain this responsible management, this management compromise that is due to the Government of the Generality at the end, despite the difficulty at the time of taking the decisions. An opportunity that allows us to explain ourselves more and better, because we believe so, and because we believe that the deputies of this chamber have right. Because we understand that this chamber represents the people, represents the people of Catalonia, in its complexity, in its diversity. And, therefore, we as the Government have the utmost respect for this diversity, this democratic representation of the people of Catalonia and, therefore, we understand the different sensitivities that can be given here. But we don't understand that we're using a pandemic like we're living with, that we're using corruption concepts to store this lack of political discourse. And precisely because of this respect that we have for this chamber – I say it today and we have said it on many occasions – we want it sovereign, because it is through the representation of the people, through the democratic representation of the people as full sovereignty is exercised. Therefore, I say many thanks, Mr. White, because it gives me the opportunity to explain the good management of the Government of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, Ignacio Martín has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.229.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr Solé, I really do want you to tell me that you have the opportunity to explain here the good management that the Government of the Generalitat of the pandemic has done to me seems, at least, questionable, not to say surrealistic, because I certainly do not believe that the numbers that we currently have in Catalonia, neither in terms of contagion, nor in terms of deaths, nor by the disaster that has entailed their management of residences, are to take breasts out. I think you have to be a little more humble and fall into self-congratulation. With the disastrous management that the Generalitat of the pandemic has done in many respects, it seems to me an attitude of what is called in Catalan fatxenda. And, indeed, it is a pretentious attitude, an attitude that has no basis or reason, quite the contrary. You can try to explain your management, it seems very legitimate and fantastic to me, and here we will discuss it and each one will set out their positions. But let's say here... come and breastfeed on the management you've made of the pandemic seems very questionable to me. Anyway, I do say one thing, that you, who have said, Mrs Budó, for example, that with an independent Catalonia in Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths during the first wave of the pandemic, that being part of Spain..., that you do not stop saying every day here, from this Parliament, that if we were an independent country, different from the rest of Spain, separated from the rest of Spain, Catalonia would be little less than a paradise in which the deaths, practically, would not exist, seems to me to be a real nonsense, it seems to me insane that you would accuse others of trying to make the pandemic policy. I assure you, it's quite the opposite. In fact, I will tell you one thing: until the news that we have known these days through the press, about the management that you have done with your Government, with your Government in the shade, Mr Vendrell, Madí, Soler and company, of course, our attitude, which will continue to be that..., from the point of view of the management of the pandemic, we will continue to reach out to help in everything that is to manage the residences, in everything that is to manage the health system, in everything that is to improve the lives of Catalans and to alleviate the disastrous effects of the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic, they will have us there. Now, knowing the news we have known these days, do not pretend that we fall into your claim of omertà and say absolutely nothing. We must denounce them precisely for those practices that point to a plot of corruption that of course has as some of its protagonists strong men of Republican Esquerra, with direct connections with advisers of this government. So please do not come to us to give us lessons from the transparency of Mrs Vergés, of the Health Adviser, because transparency would be, for example, that Mrs Vergés would have included in her public agenda the meeting she held with Mr Vendrell, three_hours and with a contract by means, a contract fraudulently awarded to Mr Vendrell, of which they have given absolutely no explanation. That would be transparency. I believe that, for you to give lessons in transparency, Mr Sole, I find it deliating, simply. The truth is that I sincerely regret that you do not take the opportunity to mark distances with all that we have known these days, is that I do not know how they do not come out here and do not say: "We are deeply ashamed of what Mr Vendrell has said, of what Mr Madí has said, of what Mr Terradellas says; we are deeply ashamed that a gentleman who is head of international relations of Convergence says that in order to achieve independence we need a hundred dead; we are deeply ashamed that an ex-counsel from Esquerra Republicana says that the important thing about this crisis is that separatism can mark a package, that it can come out with the advantage of this crisis; we are deeply ashamed of that abjection, of that immorality. I do not understand, sincerely, Mr Solé, that you do not come out here and, courageously, do an act of contrition and acknowledge that this is absolutely unacceptable. I urge you, Mr Solé, to try – both from this Parliament and from your control of the public media, which we have seen from the episode that I have commented to you before – to silence the gravity of this scandal. We, as an opposition – loyal, of course, but opposition; we will always remain opposition –, we will continue to oppose you until we reach the government, but as long as we are opposition, I assure you that we will be loyal opposition, but relentless with corruption. That's one of our currencies. That is one of our maxims, and of course we will not tolerate a government like yours acting in an all-embracing manner and without any respect for the citizens of Catalonia. The conversations that we have had these days by the press – conversations, I insist, telephone conversations, not journalistic speculations –, the telephone conversations that you are unable to give the slightest explanation, and, of course, to say anything coherent or unconvincing, have no way out in this respect, and you have to acknowledge, simply, that you have ruled in a negligent way, and that you have had very little respect for the citizens of Catalonia in a drama like the one we are living in these months. Thank you, Mr. Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. To close this point, Mr Bernat Solé has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.231.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, you refer to humility. Humiliated, all always – all always. But it's a political debate, too, always, now and always. And that's what the country is asking of you and all the Members of this House: I'm talking about big country issues. First of all, I want to point out to you – before you've made any reference, and now I'm not going to do it either – that we're living in an episode..., this episode that we're living, it's nothing more than a general cause against independence. We're used to it, we're used to it, and that's one more episode. In this case, the powers of the State continue to opt for repression instead of political action, although they know that the only solution goes through negotiation, through democracy and through the dialogue. They agree to prosecute, to suppress, an issue that should be resolved from the political point of view. We are talking about more than 2,800 people being retaliated to defend that people can freely vote for their future. And this is the reality that we live, sadly, in the Spanish State at these times. And, as I said, what we've been through these days is nothing new. Everything that has been said or insinuated until today respects the administration of the Government of the Generalitat is false, and therefore neither I nor you here we must go out to make judgments or to make investigations. There is no new concert in Education, the Salut competition was revoked. There is no regularization or urban change in Cabrera, nor is there any contractual relationship between the researchers and the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families linked to the pandemic. So you're not an investigator, you're not a judge, you're a deputy. So what I can tell you is that I have full confidence in all the public servers assigned to this operation, that what you are looking for is, precisely, weakening independence. And that's what we've been through before, and so it's a bit more of a collectable file. And let me add that we find ourselves, in this case, in a case newly instructed by a colonel who at the time, therefore, act as an activist to the social networks demonstrating a lack of impartiality. Avans told him that he would refer to some of his cases, his pearls. Legislature from 2015 to 2019, Comunidad de Madrid. Your government has four municipalities. In Arroyomolinos, the second largest municipality with the mayor of Ciutadans, the mayor and the governor detained to make tripijocs in the management of fines. To El Molar, a registrar is sentenced to occupy land irregularly. Not content with this, they have decided to embrace a party like the Popular Party, publicly condemned for corruption, and have made the president of the Community of Madrid a lady appointed for Púnica, for the Púnica case, or for the IBI's embalming, and that, in the band of its questionable management, has given us pearls as their accommodation in a luxury hotel. Of course, you have direct contact with these judicial loudspeakers, I do not know if you are in the case of the investigation that has been initiated in this case by the high offices of the Government of Madrid or by the same head of the cabinet of Mrs. Andrea Levy, and, therefore, this inquiry that you are here today, I invite you to do so in the Madrid Assembly. I told you before, Lords of the City: you have played and continue playing with the game of corruption. I ask them to do politics, which is what they correspond to, it is the burden that they have given them the citizenship of this country – or part of the citizenship of this country. Now they're trying to charge us with this lack of speeches, this empty speech. But do you know what's going on? What you said the other day – today you are no longer credible, not credible, in the eyes of the people. Do you know what's going on? That a lot of people, and it's evidence, a lot of people put their trust in you, turning them into the first game of this parliamentary chamber. But they have agreed that his project is empty, his project does not contain, has no proposals, has no debate, has no solutions, and can only see the latest election results or the latest entries in Catalonia to prove it. Therefore, I stop political iron of headlines, I stop political iron of Twitter and start political iron for the country. I am convinced, I am convinced that your voters – that your voters..., but the honest country, will appreciate it. Let's start with politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on social policies to tackle the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[300-00323/12]] The next question is about social policies to deal with the crisis of the Covid-19, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.233.0	Well, good afternoon, counselor. We are at the moment of requiring survival policies, so clear. It's a evil virus that's killing us and so we understand that the first one right now is to save lives on the part of the government, on the part of all governments. But we also need to make it clear that the virus does not affect everyone alike. This coronavirus includes social classes, social determinants, and affects with much more gravity people who already suffer precariousness, poor, bad housing or food conditions. The director of the Observatori de la Salut Pública de l'Agência de Salut Pública de Barcelona, Ms.Lucía Artazcoz, divendres passed, here in Parliament, to the reconstruction committee, says: "Of all these social determinants that affect salvation, the main are the policies of social protection. Says in another way: the best way that everyone is able to protect themselves from the virus and can also protect others – confining themselves, if they have been infected – is to ensure that everyone has guaranteed, sheltered and eaten. And that's not happening in Catalonia. Protection policies are weak, weakened by detail and ineffective. The inequalities in Catalonia were already there, and with the coronavirus they grow. In fact, the virus not only kills for reasons of health, but also saws and vital projects for the social and economic crisis that provoke the measures to stop the virus. And we have the feeling that we have focused very little, all folded, and so has the government, in this facet of social policies needed to cope with these moments. And maybe they're the ones who have a harder or bigger impact on how we get through this health crisis and, above all, on which company we stay for the weekend and how long we're going to try to recover from the country of all kinds. Therefore, I ask you, counselor, how many of the 3,600_millions that have been rejected by the Covid Extraordinary Fund General on behalf of the State have been earmarked for social funds, social protection policies? How many, through modifications of the very assumptions of the Generality, have gone to social emergence? What truly extraordinary, exceptional measures have they implemented in order to cope with social emergence in these moments of the Generality, to maximize the tools they already have? What have they done with the guaranteed income of citizenship, with the various protection services that we have in the service portfolio? How much investment have they made for the reinforcement of staff for basic social services, for the socio-educational services for at-risk children, for the community service network? The feeling is it's been a while. I'm late. As at least, late, to face the impact of the first wave of the Covid, of the virus. But we do not give up trying to make them act in a more forceful way to deal with the impact and effects of the current wave and, obviously, of the following – that they will come. Counselor, ask Mr. Aragonès – we're telling everyone – for us to open the money line, for everything you can open. The Spanish government is doing it. With extraordinary funds of many millions and eliminating the public expenditure deficit limit. But here the feeling is they're applying it with countertops. This week, for example, of the government agreements and social protection measures that have been adopted, a good part of the social protection measures were in reality those that had already been agreed on the assumptions that they had agreed with us in the beginning of the year, of increases in guaranteed income, of the tariffs to dependence... little more, in social protection. Now's the time to spend. And to indebt us, as, in fact, did Councilwoman Budó yesterday to the plenary. There are powerful measures to deal with the emergence and not to lose sight of the fact that it is necessary to start structural changes either, that we do not have the feeling that this legislature has taken advantage of to make them. The inequality, the precariousness, the risk of poverty, the situations of the extreme poor already existed in our towns and cities before the coronavirus and did not face extraordinary challenges during this legislature. The tools we had, and as they were working, they weren't effective. I've had all the data back in the year. And he didn't do anything to change them radically. The guaranteed income of citizens continues to give no answer to the majority of people who suffer situations of extreme poverty. The system of child protection has not been reformed; the portfolio of social services has not been changed; the basic social services have not been strengthened; the IRSC has not been thawed; nothing has been done again and effectively to fight against the poor child, which is very widespread in Catalonia. It is a sense of lost legislature in transforming social protection policies. There are thousands of examples that show what we are saying about this pessimistic, negative balance of social protection policies. But I'll focus on one, sensellarism, the most extreme. A reality that serves as a signal for the success or failure of the protection system. When someone ends up on the street, all protection policies fail. Returns, jobs, health care, communities, immigration, but, above all, housing fail. Sensellarism is an exhibition of severe residential exclusion, the most extreme. Many of the people who end up on the street are because before they have gone through the stage of living in infra-habitats, in the lodge room, in occupied piss... All these realities will have to be heard from the phenomenon of sensellarism in order to be able to approach it like lime. And the growth of sensellarism is a clear indicator that we're not doing well. But, at the same time, it is a problem that, looking at examples of other countries, has to be addressed, and successfully. And for the dimensions of our country it would not require an insurmountable reversal. Actually, I was studying and planning how to do it, but it didn't happen. Since 2016, the Catalan Strategy for Approaching Sensellarism has been presented to Catalonia. It was calculated that with some 10_million euros it could be implemented with a certain dignity. It didn't happen. The plan is in a calaix, since 2016, without practically presuppositional endowment. We have forced, as you know, in these assumptions of this year, a match of 1_million euros – absolutely insufficient, but, at the very least, served to remove 'il del calaix' from the calaix. Meanwhile, during these years, from 2016 until now, reality has existed and someone has approached it. There have been the entities and, above all, the assemblies – forgiveness; above all, the Barcelona Assembly. Before the pandemic in Barcelona there were 2,200 places to care for people without land, in the metropolitan area, eighty, and in the rest of Catalonia, just over a hundred. People who didn't attend Barcelona were not from Barcelona, they're from the country. In the last two years half of the people attending the service in Barcelona brought less than three months to the city. They are given to make manifest that in Barcelona, under the municipal assumption, the policy of attention to the sensillarism of the whole country was made, because who had to do it, which is the Generality, was not doing it. The social crisis that the Covid has unleashed has made this situation much worse. A third of the people now in Barcelona for sensillarism are people who did not live on the street before the pandemic, so they are growing, and will grow more. Since March in Barcelona they have made a huge effort without precedents also to continue to care for people without home. The joint already allocated 35_million euros per year to sensellarism– 35. Since March 15 million more have been added. You, in this period, from March to now, have put in less than 1_million– €950,000–, which is the game that you have agreed with us on the assumptions for this year. So, covid's extraordinary fonds for sensellarism. A few days ago they gathered with people from the municipalities, from the municipal planning of Catalonia, and they said they would raise money. How many, counselor? Explain to us: how much money will they put? When will they put them down? How will they pose? But, besides, as I said, we don't just want to talk about how to deal with the emergence, but about how to make structural changes to improve the efficiency of social investment, and applied in this case of sensillarism, it's not just about placing emergency and short-term allowances, which is the only recurring, the only one that is currently recognized in the service portfolio. I'd have to get the people out of the street and take care of it, for moral empire, I'd just miss it, but that didn't end with the problem. The effective key is that no one ends up on the street, and this is done with preventive, social protection policies, and in this case the key point is housing, and these preventive policies are not of municipal competence. Look, counselor, you need this inquiry and this example of sensillaryism to put an alert letter on how important it is that it can still be done to deal with social emergence as it is, and that is why we do not give up demanding urgent things from this government, for much of it is working, and so we will do with the youth, but we also believe that it is time to debate necessary structural changes, also in social policies, and to make political commitments in this Parliament about what it will be like to move immediately from a new government after the elections, because accountability requires it. Either they are now laying the foundations for a reconstruction of social justice or we will only continue to reproduce and enlarge existing injustices, and we have conditions to make this transformation. We can gather the knowledge of the professionals of the social sector system, who have been making proposals for better ways of doing so for years, we can take advantage of the State's general assumptions that will be more social than ever before, and we can take advantage of the clear will of the citizenry to strengthen the rights and public services. Now more than ever, people are asking for it. Therefore, counselor, alert cry, but also hope. Let's talk, explain to us, answer me, please, these three, four concrete questions that I have asked you, and in the band of responding to the emergence, let's talk about how to follow a good social policy structurally in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.234.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.235.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Mrs Ribas, I will begin by sharing a part of her reflection, especially the initial one. Social conditions linked to a pandemic situation are clear – they are clear. It's visualized day by day – it's visualized day by day – these conditions. I found myself missing one of the most important conditions, that this week is coming out a lot, but I'm sure that you, like me, know enough before this week, that it's the administrative situations of some people, of how the system is absolutely failing, bringing people who are not in an irregular situation to irregularity, because it's impossible – because it's impossible – an exercise as simple as going to a government subdelegation and renewing the work permit or the residence permit, where there have been threats – and I say with knowledge, because during a time of my life I did. And that's happening right now, and it's definitely from those worst conditions – the worst – of everything that's going on. And yes, it's clear, it's not the same as doing confinement in a house that in a piss. It is not the same to do the confinement in a four-foot pea, one-hundred_metres_squares, that in a forty_metres_squares pea. It's not the same as planning to do a forty when you have a black job and you're in an irregular situation. And this is one of the most complex realities at the time of managing the Covid-19 crisis. And it has to be done from all quarters – from all quarters. And I think that these weeks we have seen a reality, that some of us have known for some time, and that it is, directly, indecent – and that it is, directly, indecent. The first aspect for which we can be a miqueta optimists: that in general everyone is clear that the response to the social, economic and labour crisis linked to the health crisis of the Covid-19 cannot be the answer that was given to the financial crisis – that also generated a social, economic and labour crisis – of 2008. And I think it's one of the essential aspects. Secondly, you said to me: "What efforts have been made around those resources...? , which seems to be resources falling from the cell, which are a species of shared manna. No, no, it's what I said in the previous plenary and I'm going back to say it here, because I think it's important: those resources are resources of the workers and the workers, of the citizens of this country, huh? I mean, the public administration's resources are not government resources, they are resources with the efforts of the citizens, of the businesses, that they are recapturing; and here we go to one of the other elements, because it seems that resources come from outside Catalonia that, in a way, there, with a point and everything from the cell, in this element, are distributed. Say, no, no, these are resources that are as much or equal... because they are resources produced and generated by the citizens of this country. From these resources that have arrived as a manna, who have gone into the social sphere? I'm grateful, and I appreciate it, huh? , who asked me, because, of course, these resources, and a person who is not Catholic, who is basically secular, have the ability to multiply like bread and fish. Because, in this very House, I have heard: "These resources have been distributed: so much for salvation, so much for education, so much for infrastructure... Interestingly, the Government that has made this great effort, the Government of the State, in the 3,000s and it did not stay so much for social matters. I say this because, then, when I ask Councillor Bargalló, when I ask Councillor Calvet, when I ask Councillor Vergés, with the millimetre, of these foundations as many as they have been destined... I mean, I have this exercise. Because, in the end, the decision has to be joint. And as long as we have allocated resources, and we want to allocate more, and we will allocate more. And we've had a margin, with the widening of the gap. A margin that was also..., because you said to me: "It is that the social level was the covenant in assumptions; no, the departure of assumptions, for example, for tariffs, there were 15_million. And what we did was, when there was the opening... and until there was the opening we couldn't do it. But it was agreed; I mean, on the premise of the Generality there were 15, there was agreement, and an agreement that was fulfilled, it would be less, which was: when there is this opening on the floor of the deficit, we can incorporate it. And we've done so much – I've been criticized for cheating... because that's not what happened five months ago. And think about it, too, huh? , which has cost, for example, that the assemblies can allocate their resources to policies. It was necessary to fall into Congress because it was finally modified. But it doesn't matter. What have we done? From the 45_millions we allocated in the first moment, there were 10_millions we allocated to the programme contract, supporting the programme contract, to the whole exercise of more than 140_millions of euros that we are putting on the table at this time. More the contingency plan in the residential area, which, overall, is at the expense of 100_million euros, the one that affects my department has an affect that is around 50, but this has been taking place day by day. Other examples. Those, the most invisible – the most invisible. What have we done? The help to be able to regularize and make a win-win around whether we are vulnerable, the maximum: migrating women working in the cures, in an irregular situation. And this is a very, very good example of what you said, to look at the most invisible part, to look at that part that is absolutely necessary. The additions to the programme contract, with petitions made by the same local administrations, to, for one thing, the whole area of childhood poverty in the summer, and food in the summer. On the other hand, all the scope of being able to give an answer to those who are most invisible when their children have to make quarantine. And that's what we did, too. Other aspects that have also been settled, and that also have a logic: the 20_millions that we had to place to give what you said, to give air when people were not charging neither the ERTOs nor the benefits, which with two weeks is exhausted: one hundred_1,000 families– one hundred_1,000 families. Now– the 10_million–, we have now placed 20_million specifics for autonomous reasons, because that too..., because we also understand a logic that is also key, and I believe that you will also share it, in the end: quality work is the best social policy. We also have to do it. Close to me, and I already know that you've been asking me a lot of questions about social matters, but one of the things that I'm most happy about is how we've tried to integrate the maximum, to get the most across the policies of work in the policies of social matters, from aspects like, for example..., and the other day I found it with the joints, with the entities that had drawn up the training and work plan for young people who have passed through the protection system. This is another very concrete example of the most invisible people trying to make win-wins. Why? Do you know why we had to do these training and work? Because these young people are divided years and they can't work. They have a residence permit – they have a residence permit – and they have to have a full-time job offer for a year in order to have a work permit. And that happens in this country. And as we don't have the skills to change the Foreign Law, as we don't have the skills to change the foreign rule, we're looking for solutions. And we'll keep looking for them. And, in this sense, the greatest effort. Respect for sensellarism. We did, and we'll keep doing it. And, yes, right now we're working on a package of additions to the program contract, which a very important part went to sensellarism. As far as locals are concerned, I think the first moment is to explain it to locals. And also explain it to him, and this can be spoken to with his company and company of the assembly, which we carry from after the summer, and with a very great intensity in the last two weeks, working more with me, which is the best way to work to solve projects and challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.236.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line up, she's got a new turn on the congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.237.0	Counselor, fully agree that this crisis cannot come out of the previous economic crisis and finance, but..., and that's why we're asking him this question, because the feeling is that Mr. Aragones is still trying to be the compliment camp of a deficit limit that doesn't exist anymore; they're right, they're in debt, they're doing what they need, but we can't go with tinted myths at these times – they can't go with tinted myths. It's a very difficult emergence, which all just starts on the social side, and that of salvation goes much further than we thought. And, therefore, the consequences of this social crisis cannot be imagined, neither you nor I, at this very moment. I'm sure it hasn't been all right since the state, but, listen, they just made some assumptions that are the most social, a proposal that I'm sure is still better, and you can work with them, to improve them; the ones with the most social expense. A social shield of absolutely extraordinary measures has been made during these months via ERTOs, via..., now it will guarantee increases in retirements, increase the IPREM, there are now new benefits for those who do not have a right to the day, there is also in the compromise of assumptions the law of loggers to regulate the price, much more money than ever for public housing policies. It's better. Obviously, it is the suspension of the charges for everyone who is affected by the crisis. As well as the expected write-offs. We must, yes, strengthen staff in the services to ensure efficiency after these services, which reach the people, which arrive quickly, among others, also in all the management related to the Law of Foreign Affairs. We don't feel like these things are falling and some things aren't working well enough from the State, but they're not working well enough for a lot of extraordinary measures that have been approved from the State. We complain to the Government of the Generality, like at least, that you go along with it, extraordinary measures, and they have not done, counselor, nor one extraordinary in a way that you already have, such as guaranteed income from citizenship, to guarantee returns. Extraordinary res of access. In fact, what they've done is to get the people to ask for the minimum vital ingredient and when the rebin... Listen, you can do a law decree, just like from here to Parliament we claimed you. And we dropped their original law decree, precisely, because he wasn't going this way. And we said to them, "Do it just the other way around and we'll approve of it. After all, we've made them the decree of the law, we've made a proposition of the law that explains how it should be done. Do it – do it –, you can do it like the government works and they will do a great deal of favor to the people who are patenting at these times to get back to them, also that of the vital minimum ingredient. They have not done any extraordinary things for basic social services, they have done the meetings, counselors, and deputies; they are the ones that are strengthening basic social services. They have not done extraordinary things at a time like the present; they have not done extraordinary things in the main tools to respond to this crisis. Res. Either they meet this social desperation that already exists, and that will grow, and with strength, or beyond that we are not building a social justice that I think we share that we want... but that, moreover, politically it is a very difficult irresponsibility, because we are opening a huge camp to the populism of the extreme right. This outrage respects some institutions that do not respond to truncated life projects that easily result in a vote of appeal from the extreme right-wing populism, and we have some Catalan elections to the canton. Counselor, we play a lot. Especially, we play with people's living conditions, but we also play with them, politically, as our country will be with our own years. We need a social protection that is propitious, personalized, flexible, sufficient, human; we need a lot of resources. We need de-bureaucratisation, we need reinforcement without priors of basic and urgent social services. We need more Community work than ever before, reinforced also by the Generality. We must avoid end-of-presuppost aids, which generate competition between equals, which need that help. We need to lay the foundations for a structural transformation that allows us to get out of this crisis with a general logic of guaranteeing rights: of entrances, of rest, of food, of salvation, in short, of prospects of recovery of vital projects autonomous. And I can, I can do it. We ask you to put everything you can in this sense. They know we'll be helping later, in this sense, but we don't see it right now, and so we're frustrated. We've got to claim them, stay strong. We have not seen exceptionalities, we have offered them a thousand ways. Do it now, like at least for this second and for which it will come later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor, you've got a second turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.239.0	Mrs. Ribas, I'm staying with the last part, and I'm sure we can work on it. Now, does the one who feeds the populism of the extreme right know? Double measuring rods. If this councillor has taken the decision that, for example, he has come to the Balearic Islands, that you are governing with the Socialist Party, that it is approving a decree on the beneficiaries of the guaranteed income from there have this time to demand the minimum vital income, and, if not, he loses that benefit, he would now be stuck to the main stake of this Parliament. And for you – and for you. The double standards of measuring are the ones that fuel populism. And I say it from the utmost respect, because in this, against ultra-populism, I know that with all the differences that we can have you and I, we are allies, but that is what really feeds that populism. These double measuring rods. And it is in this sense..., this morning, here, listening to us as they say: "This is his competence, for which I do not explain any history. It wasn't you, things like that, it was another. And then, with sensellarism, and we'll work. And there'll be a very powerful addition and we're working on it technically. No, because out of respect for the municipal world that we're working with, I think I need to lock it up. Do you understand me? And that's the way it is, but... and I can ask. [[Marta Ribas Frías intervenes without using the microphone.]] So you know perfectly well, and I don't know who he asked, so I don't know who he asked. And then I'll comment on it, I'll send you a WhatsApp: "Have you asked? Because it's because I seem surreal, because, aside from that, we talked a little while ago. We talked a little while ago. You said... you wanted to set it up too, make it guaranteed. I explained this to him, but I'm also in it. The last monthly nomina of guaranteed income, 39,9_million euros. What's the difference, huh? , respect the minimum income of insertion? Let's do the trick. What would be the name of the vital minimum income? In proportion. God... and then it has to be heard. I understand that, but in this Parliament the difficulties of throwing a new tool have never been understood. But, well, we're still working as hard as we can. Set him up. Now, what can't be is that you sit down, they say, "No, no, it's that you have the handle locked. No, no, let's make the most of it. It does not help us, neither the assemblies nor the governments of the territories, that the margins arrive at you at the last moment and correct, which is what has passed to the Spanish State. You say to me: « The assumptions of the State... We are analyzing them and we will place elements there, because, of course, this morning he was listening to 700_million in dependence. It's that the annual deficit is 450_millions, annual– 700_millions for the whole state, with nine obligations, I don't know if we'll do it. I don't know if we'll do it. I don't know if we'll do it. And I say it honestly. And that's what I placed on the Social Policy Council, and I placed it clearly. From here, let's find him, but let's search for all the mechanisms, and let's find him, huh? , because right now there are girls who will be left without papers for an interpretation of the Supreme Court and a sentence to renew the papers, who have sent me a concrete proposal, written and worked to avoid it. And that doesn't cost a lot of money, changing – I'm not going to call you off – the rules. And that's what every municipality notes. And in this I give him all the reason. And what we need to avoid at most is this centrifugal competence. And in this sense, we'll work there, we're working there and we'll keep doing it, but we'll do it. But let's find it, because sometimes there are things that don't cost money, but that cost a barbarity of money for everything they represent. And I agree, the second year of 2021 will be complex for all governments. For all governments. For all of us. And, either we go into the four principles that I think you have in mind, which are the principles of cooperation, the principles of collaboration, the principles of co-responsibility and the principle of subsidiarity, or we will not get out of it. And no one will get involved. And I'm telling you so clearly. And then the land will be well paid for the outrage. And in this we should be able to do it, but without double standards to measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-05-6502.240.0	Thank you, Counselor. We're done with the agenda, so we're going to vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, so-so, so, let's start voting. Before voting, I am sure that by today's ninety-two Members have delegated their vote, that they have joined the telematic vote and that twenty-two Members will vote face-to-face. [[Motion for a resolution on Baix Penedès (continuation)]] [[250-01524/12]] In the first place, we vote on the debate on the motion for a resolution on Baix Penedès, item 6 of the order of the day. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, i.e. 132 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the care of the great people (continuation)]] [[302-00249/12]] We now vote on the seven-point order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the government about the attention to the great people. We vote, first of all, and answer the separate voting petitions, points 1 and 2. The vote begins. The result of these points has been 68 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics –, no abstention and a Member present who has not voted. We're voting points 3 and 11. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics. We're voting 10 and 12 points now. The vote begins. They were approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics. We're voting for the rest of the points of this young man now. The vote begins. The remaining points have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the tourism model (continuation)]] [[302-00250/12]] Let's now vote on the agenda item, which corresponds to the motion following the government's inquiry into the tourism model. We vote in the first place on point 1.a. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – against 40 abstentions. We're voting points 1.b and d now. The vote begins. They were approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now on point 1.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – with 4 abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 8 votes to 21, with 104 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics. We're voting now on point 2.c–2.c. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 4, with 68 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. It has been approved by 61 votes in favour, against and 72 abstentions – corresponding to 53 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics. And we're voting now on points 3a and b. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against – corresponding to 102 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes to 68, with no abstentions. And now we're voting points 4.2, 4.b and 4.c. Repeat: 4.a.2., 4.b and 4.c. The vote begins. They have been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics. We're voting the rest of point four now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point five now. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting point six now. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. We've voted all the points of this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the lack of company support in the management of the pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00254/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the split, and now vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into the lack of company support in the management of the pandemic. We vote, first of all, on 1 bis, encapsulation and letters b and d– 1 bis, encapsulation, letters b and d. The vote begins. They have been approved by 40 votes in favour, against and 93 abstentions – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics. We're voting now on the 1a point, it's a – 1a, it's a. The vote begins. It was approved by 40 votes to 32, with 61 abstentions – corresponding to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics. I repeat: 40 votes in favour, 32 against, 61 abstentions. We're voting now on the 1 bis point, letter c. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 29 abstentions. And now we vote on point 1.2 – 1.2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting now on point 2.5. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.8. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – 29 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.11. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes to 17, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 2a point. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes in favour – corresponding to 93 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 17 against, 4 abstentions. And now we're voting on the rest of the points of the motion that haven't been voted on yet. The vote begins. Adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the approach to rape in educational centres (continuation)]] [[302-00251/12]] We are voting now on the next point of the order of the day, i.e., the dinovè, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the government about the approach of rapes in educational centers. We vote on point 1, 2.b.i., 2.b.ii., 2.c., 2.d. and 2.e. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of point 2.b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 78 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against 36 abstentions. We've already voted all the points of this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the import of influenza prevention and other winter conditions during the Covid-19 pandemic (cont'd)]] [[302-00252/12]] So, let's move on to the next, which is the one that corresponds to the point of the order of the day, that is, the motion following the government's inquiry on the import of influenza prevention and other winter sickness during the Covid-19 pandemic. We vote for the whole motion in its conjunction with the original text. Yeah? The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the use of languages in public communication media (continuation)]] [[302-00253/12]] We now proceed to vote on the twenty-first point, which corresponds to the Ministry following the question to the Government about the use of languages in public communication media. We vote separately and enter points 1 and 2. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 76 against – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting for the sixth point now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 68 against – corresponding to 49 face-to-face and delegates and 19 telematics – 8 abstentions. We're voting points seven, eight and eight. The vote begins. They have been approved by 65 votes in favour, 64 against – correspondents to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 4 abstentions. We're voting 9 and 10 points now. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 12 abstentions. We're voting point 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 68, with 8 abstentions. We're voting points 12, 13 and 17. The vote begins. They have been approved by 65 votes in favour, 64 against– corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting for the 14th point now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 93 against – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – with no abstentions. And we're voting on the seven-point now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 64 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –,12 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 68 against– corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics–, no abstention. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the presuppositional priorities (continuation)]] [[302-00255/12]] Let us now proceed to vote on item 22, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the presuppositional priorities. We vote, first place, point 1.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions– 97 votes, corresponding to 78 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics. Let's just go ahead and vote points 1.a, and e. The vote begins. They have been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 75 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against, 39 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.a and c. The vote begins. It was approved by 93 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 49 against – corresponding to 30 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 72 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 21 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point 2.f. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 100 against and 21 abstentions– 100 are 81 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics. We're voting now for point 2.g. The vote begins. It was approved by 125 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 2.h. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for point 4.a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against, no abstentions. We're voting 5th point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 63 votes in favour – corresponding to 44 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 21 against, 49 abstentions. We're voting 6th point now. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Sixth. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against, no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 7a–7a. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 72 against – corresponding to 53 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 32 abstentions. And now we're voting point 8, which is the last of this young man. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the proposed law for the coordination of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being referred to the Congress of Deputies (continuation)]] [[302-00256/12]] We are now voting on the twenty-three point, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the proposed law coordinating the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services in the framework of the national civil protection system, which is being referred to the Congress of Deputies. Let's start by voting point one. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 78 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against 36 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 4. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 36 against, 21 abstentions. We now vote on points 5a, b, c and d–5a, 5.b, 5.c and 5.d. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point 5.e now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 57 against, no abstention. And we're voting now on point 5.f. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 57 against, no abstention. There are no more points to vote. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you.
