ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.1.0	Well, good one's late. MPs, MPs, let's start the session. [[Appearance of Mr. H. Mr. Joaquim Torra and Pla before the plenary under Rule 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure]] [[351-00002/12]] The first item on the agenda is the appearance of Mr Joaquim Torra and Pla before the plenary under Rule 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure, as agreed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, and in accordance with Rule 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The one-hundred-and-thirty-one president of the Generality, Mr. Joaquim Torra and Pla, will speak, all the while, to whom I give the welcome and ask him to pass to the hemicicle to address these words. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.2.0	Thank you very much, thank you. Now, please, thank you very much. Thank you, really. President of Parliament, Vice-President, company of the Bureau, advisers and advisers, deputies and deputies. This dilluns, 4,392,891 votes were closed in a box and thrown into the sea; 4,392,891 votes were stunned and declared useless for a court six-cents_kilometres from the Parliament of Catalonia. The sobriety of the people of Catalonia was increased and diminished, once more, by a court of law, six hundred miles from here. Once more – and we have already lost count –, the Spanish State does little the will of the people of Catalonia. And I refuse to normalize, accept, digest or trivialize this repression of a state that applies justice before the unit of the country, its, full of flags and military parades. I said the 4th generation in this same Faristol, when the evil election board would leave me without a deputy. We are living a new attempt to alter the popular will of Catalans, a new blow to democracy, a blow to the institutions of our country. There are people who think that when they don't like a president, a government or a parliament, they don't have to respect the limit to destroy it. And that's how it's been done now. This is the way to proceed which, once again, has been confirmed. When they don't win the ballot boxes, the courts eliminate them; when they don't like them coming out of the ballot boxes, they do it later, in the audience halls of the courts. Anyone who has a point, however small, of democratic sentiment and esteem for the people of our country must revolt against this systematic persecution of a political, legitimate, peaceful and democratic movement that is evil for the freedom and justice of Catalonia. When a mature and civic society speaks, decides and votes, it deserves all the respect of the institutions, wherever they are. The decisions of a democratic parliament must be respected and I will always do so. And it is at times like the present that this sovereignty and the institutions that represent it can be strengthened. Treating us in a discriminatory way, applying the enemy's criminal right to form part of a national minority in the Spanish State, is a source of conflict and repression that will have to be assessed and judged by the human rights courts of Europe. European courts that already know – and as long as they know – the ways and irregularities of the Spanish State when it comes to suppressing political dissent. And it's there, just there, where we can have a fair trial. It is there – only there, in Europe – where we will win the legal plethora of the struggle for respect for individual and collective rights, the human and civil rights of Catalans. No abandonment, no respite, no acceptance of this dismissal, and it will be Europe that will now judge the Spanish State. But there is another battle that is free in these Parliament pairs, every day, there is a duty to complete, too, as representatives of the people of Catalonia. And it's a deure that I don't understand about ideology, parties, or national projects. It is the duty to defend, with arms and teeth, until the last consequences, the democracy and sovereignty of the Catalans and the Catalans represented and to be exercised in this Parliament. The scons you occupy, the esteemed deputies and the esteemed deputies, do not belong to you; you can't do whatever you want, they're not at your disposal. They're from the people who voted for us. It wasn't my business to hear that I occupied until this month of generation when I was near, it belonged to the people who voted for us. These escons you occupy are a direct burden on the citizens, they're a warrant. Each of these scons, each of the people who have placed their trust and their immediate future in you. It is the people of Catalonia, it is the Catalan people who make you bearers of the safeguard of their freedom, their progress and their well-being and who call you to act, solidarily, against any attempt to stifle democracy. To alter, break and escape this direct thread of Parliament, of the one hundred and thirty-five escons of this hemicicle with the citizenry, is an intolerable coup d'état, which does not affect me today, or President Puigdemont or Vice President Junqueras, or Councillors Turull, Romeva, Rull, Comín, or MP Jordi Sánchez, when they were also deprived of their rights to represent the Catalans. It does not affect us only, in our rights to have been elected, but in the right of representation of every citizen who participated in the tax elections of 21 December 2017. Because, changing the configuration of a parliament, for purely political and repressive reasons, is a serious attack on democracy and the right of representation of all and every citizen. Of those more than 4,300,000 citizens who decided to put their vote in a ballot box, a few weeks after the very serious police violence against the citizenry, who also wanted to vote to decide the future of their country, he will do three years tomorrow, something as normal and as simple as going to vote. We are, esteemed Members, esteemed Members, before a scandal of international dimensions. We live this week, a colossal escandol, which adds to a wide list of irregularities and interpretations and applications of the law, completely manipulated to aixate and topple a democratic majority from the ballot box. A scandal that passes and that will still pass more bill, sense of doubt, to the democratic credibility of Spain as a state of law, modern and annihilated at European standards. Today I am, tomorrow it will be another; but the first republican institution is the popular will. If there's no respect for that, there's no democracy. It is impossible to think that what happens today in the Spanish State can go to other European states. It is not possible to imagine that in any European state a president is incapacitated for having taken a banner in defense of freedom of expression, of the human rights of his citizens, it is unheard of, it is unheard of. That's right, it happens in the authoritarian rules, as we've seen in Turkey, with the banners, too, of the lawyers' colleges. It is not normal, nor can we normalize, that the last three presidents of the Generality have been removed or disqualified to defend what they say and say the ballot box. Spain must understand that it cannot replace the popular will for the will to make always prevail an idea that is obsolete and imposed: the sacred unity of the Spanish country, which is an idea that is obsolete and imposed, « nineteenth. It doesn't pass democratic control any less. All political projects must be realizable, democratic, must be realizable. And it is not acceptable for a government to go in for a banner that collected a democratic cry won at the polls, the democratic cry that the majority of Catalan citizens voted for, that 21 December, was this: "Freedom political prisoners and return from exiles. It was a mandate from the citizenry; my deure, as the president, was to fulfill that mandate. It is certain that today they are laughing, that they are mocking, that they say to 'we have warned you, that it is a cynical way of reminding us of their threats. It's been a long time since we've had to honestly defend their ideas, democratically, dialectically, come here from the guards of repression. I can tell you, without making a mistake, that the day the European courts give me reason, I only smiled with joy, but I will never bring to justice a democratic vote of this Parliament. Nor does a Member who expresses himself in the inviolable exercise of his freedom of expression: never. Shame on those who bring the expressions of the deputies, the free expression of the deputies in this Parliament to justice. Shame on you! And that's also what I want to tell you today, all of you, the resistance democrats of this chamber and the city that follow us from home. So, yes, we'll go back to smiling and walking with no firmness to independence and to the exercise of the right to self-determination. I fully trust the people of Catalonia. I trust the strength, the talent, the constancy of Catalans and Catalans to make it possible for them to always tell us that it is impossible. They'll always tell us. So no, we have the strength to change everything. And to do it now, if we fly. And we'll do it again, this collectible leap, assuming the consequences of wanting us free. Because we know how to do it, with the will to break the democratic institutions and the civil civil and peaceful disobedience of the citizenry. It's April 14th and it's October 1st, there's no other way to be independent. And we have some elections ahead of us to prove it; from us and from all Catalans it is said that it is the plebiscite of the ratification of the First of October or that it is something else. Catalonia is the bressol of democracy, we saw the birth of the first parliaments of Europe, yes, here, with the Assemblies of Pau and Treva, first convocations for England in the 11th century, but now they will convoke the Counts in the 12th century. And that they would finally incorporate all the stages of society, from the popular classes to the nobility. And this parliamentary will, this pact, this will of consensus and dialogue to resolve conflicts has never been lost in the long run. We're and we're going to be people of fear and people of democratic arrangements, we can't be another thing, the Catalans. We can never lose this civic, supportive, human rights-compromising character for many threats and intimidations we encounter. And I can't quote either Arendt or Rawls : Francesc Maspons. One of the most notable Catalan jurists wrote in his thirties: "In the Catalan regime, the limits of freedom do not set them the authority, nor, therefore, the laws, which are his work... So that it determines how far freedom can be reached and how it can be enforced are the rights inherent in natural human beings, which today are called rights of citizenship. Maspons, 30 years old. And this is the way we have to hear democracy, the Catalans: as a phone book to make the service and the rights of the citizen possible. Serve the citizens. Defending your rights, isn't that an honorable pocket for which you pay the greatest sacrifices you can make? Serve the citizens and don't use 'n. In my opinion, because I see that there is none of the Socialist Party, and today I wanted to take advantage of it to apologize to Congressman Iceta for the mistake I made the other day of saying that I was carrying thirty years, so to speak, to the political service. When I was 40, I was wrong, wasn't I? His forty-year-old uses 'n' politics. It is precisely this that is not to be done; we must come to serve the citizenry not to serve us -in, of the citizenry. I've always been moved by the idea of freedom as responsibility, the idea of the republic as well as with the most vulnerable in the past, the idea of compromise and civic duty as the political practice that leads you to get involved in society. For this reason, when I proposed to assume the responsibility of the presidency, I accepted it as much as Nicolau d'Olwer said: "To serve the common when the hour up is law of all democracy. This legislature began in full application of the authoritarian decree of Article 155, with political prisoners and exiles, with hundreds and thousands of reprisals challenging and constantly marching to justice for having wanted to vote in a ballot box on the future of your country. Still, also, the same day that I was disabled, they also disqualified Jordi Pesarrodona, simply for having gone to vote; simply for having gone to vote. People in this country are being disqualified from voting, from voting, from voting, from exercising democracy. That's it. The legislature followed up with nominations for the presidency that could not be done, that could not be finished, that the candidates for the debates that were held on investiture or that could not even be called. And then there came more threats, more arrests, more payback rules. And that's what we've been through. We've had forest fires, we've had devastating aid, waves, we've had massive mobilizations with ever. Finally, a petrochemical industry in Tarragona, so, as you know, exploded. But finally there came what no one could imagine that could come. No one in the world could imagine you coming in a global pandemic. No one could have predicted it. And now this disease has changed our lives and has already taken more than thirty thousand people only to Catalonia. We still don't officially know how many have gone to Spain because we don't know Spain's official figures yet. Catalonia is, it's thirty thousand. It's a pandemic that demands constant fighting, daily, minute by minute and every reason in the country. And we're doing fine. The risk of rebound today is 154.17. Rt's 0.90, we're under one. We wouldn't have to cheer all, all, 135 Members. Because that's a great effort for the citizenry. And we'd have to thank the city for this huge effort it's making to lower these figures. We have the situation at the Catalan hospitals and the Catalan ICUs with a disability, but there are also figures that concern us: 26,000 students in quarantine; 26,000 students and 1,878 professionals also confined. Therefore, we are reaching 30,000 members of the confined educational community. And when will the Spanish government approve low-employment IT? When? How many more weeks do we have to wait for? What do we give these thirty thousand families? Because just like total confinement, because just like with the use of masks, because just like with the vital minimum ingredient, the Spanish government will end up approving it. It's too late and too late. And maybe because we said so, the Catalans. As we are now aware, the deficit targets are ultimately suspended for all administrations during the years 2020 and 2021. Since the March we have been claiming at every meeting of presidents, since March, we have been meeting again. For God's sake! Let administrations use all their resources. And today we still have to listen to the Minister of History telling us that good news for local entities, because there was no reason why the joints have money in the bank and we can't use it. Since the March we've been telling you. It's the summit of shame. The summum, that we now feel this justification. The hours we spent claiming something that was absolutely necessary for our meetings and for the Catalan administration. One time and another the government of the PSOE, of Podemos and of commons has denied it. How many lost days! How many unsavory people! How many jobs you've been working on! How many projects escaped! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How many evaporated opportunities! We cannot afford to lose any of these opportunities. We can't afford it. How inefficient it is not to take decisions when they fall. How inefficient, immigrating from a pandemic like this. So at work, he'll be the same, and he'll be late, when the decision has to be made. And that the European foundations that belong to Catalonia – do not pretend to deceive, also –, the 30,000_million euros demanded by the Government of the Generality, do not pretend to deceive, deputies and deputies, I say to the whole chamber: do not allow it. Defend the interests of our citizens always and with all strength. This legislature ended after it also declared itself an alarm state with a democratic government collapse and bringing institutions to a provisional situation. It is a very serious irresponsibility to eat a little more for the advance of repression, the Spanish judiciary. But we're not deceiving ourselves here, we're not deceiving ourselves. Seeing that the judiciary acts on its own is a grave mistake. The political persecution allowed for the governments of the PP and the PSOE, and we can and common is much more than that. It's the police investigation, it's espionage, it's the locksmiths, it's the US prosecutor's diplomat... it's all a state against Catalonia. I started the term as a president without a government and the legislature ended with a government without a president. It seems to me to be a clear picture of the completely extraordinary, absolutely surreal and Kafkian situation we are living in. And they won't make us give up our political project for a better Catalan life. We will never give up, because all this is not done for us, but for all those who have preceded us in this fight against the Catalan countries and for all those who will come for the rest, for our children and nets, because the future is theirs and we must leave them a country without imposes, free, live, joyful and willing to everything, critical with power. That young people never give up being critical with power. We'll be where we're going to win, just on our own. Today and tomorrow, of you, deputies and deputies, and more in front of those who occupy these corners of popular sovereignty. That the own Parliament that arises from the ballot box remains faithful to the mandate of the citizenry: the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan republic. From the responsibility I'll be close to you if you lead this democratic breakup and follow the people. Cal never abandons his pocket or hopes. Rodolf Llorens, one of the great Catalan thinkers and intellectuals, finished his book As the Catalans have been and are with the following sentence: "If we are small we will do great without putting on tips but for our irrevocable desire, for our insurmountable tenacity and for the example of the jungle forest. For Catalonia and for life! Visit the Catalan Republic! [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, comrades. Thank you very much. Thank you all. That the debate went very well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.3.0	Thank you, President Torra. Five, two minutes to go, and we'll move on to the next point in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.4.0	Well, let's take back the Ple... [[Discussion on the situation arising from the Supreme Court judgment confirming the disqualification of the President of the Generality, Mr. H. Mr. Joaquim Torra and Pla]] [[255-00018/12]] ...with the debate on the situation generated by the Supreme Court ruling confirming the disqualification of the President of the Generality, Mr Joaquim Torra and Pla. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As this debate is taking place at the initiative of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group, we will begin with the intervention of one representative from each of these two parliamentary groups to expose the motions of the request. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, Mrs Anna Caula. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.5.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, members of the Government, today before a new attack by the State against the Catalan institutions, we could say that a new democratic scandal without precedent, which is already sad to add to the repression of the general cause against independence. And no, we're not here today just to talk about the disqualification of the very honorable President Torra as a fact, it would be absurd to do so. We are here again to manifest a persecution without scruples and without limits: disqualification of a president for a banner, clever, it looks like a mirror. To where are the limits of justice? The law says it's the same for everyone– so far as we can agree– but it's clear that justice is not. And let's take examples, each time more current: Bankia case, recently, the miseries of the state's harpsichords, Kitchen case; names each time more familiar– Consuelo Madrigal, ex-fiscal general, Diego Pérez de los Cobos – always wrapped in a strange shadow and always dark. We come from a great judgment, from the judgment of the farce, where our companions are eager – more than a thousand days in prison. A farce trial on memory M. Rajoy, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría and the Minister of Interior, Mr. Zoido, say that they do not remember, that « now does not come to me. We are here today to show all our support to President Torra, because we will work for Mr. Torra, for the hope that has driven us, and we will always do everything we can to ensure that Catalonia is free, because that means a just future and a future for our people. Why are we doing this whole thing? Because it is a new attack on the institutions of our country and we have to answer from the institutions to defend it; because we want President Torra to be able to explain himself to her of the sovereignty of Catalonia and make her feel her voice. You are the President of Catalonia until this Parliament hears another President, only this Parliament has the power to do so. We must continue to fight together to face repression, but we must also continue to fight the most economic pandemic and crisis we have probably experienced, and that is why we will always work together. We are here today for democratic compromise and institutional respect. The State pursues, represses, undertakes and disables. Catalonia responds with the word, freedom to express the natural diversity of options and the active defence of the dignity of our institutions. The Parliament of Catalonia, its legislative power, popular sovereignty, is constituted and raises today the view in support of President Torra, is to say, the support to the executed power, the Government of the Generality. Acting in defense of the Catalan institutions is our right and our obligation, it is the role that citizenship has attached to us and requires us, a new area of complaint, because we in these spaces will never, ever give up. President Tora has objected to the umpteenth judicial persecution by the state against citizens, democratic representatives and Catalan political leaders. Here today, we draw up minutes and conjure ourselves to say loudly that they will not achieve it, that we will not surrender and that they will not divide us. Today, more than ever, we are the voice of a people, the voice of indignation, but also the voice of the serenity of who knows how to be loaded with reason and trust. It has become clear that Spain's justice, through its central institutions, exerts a political arm against Catalonia. The most progressive government in history is falling apart, once more, after legal action. Now they've decided I can't publish the disqualification to the BOE. They explicitly add themselves to the Supreme's feeling, what a shame! So much as the Socialist Group today – "socialists, the meaning that this word has, and that I think today does not honor the party that the door as a referent – that I do not like to face a free and open debate like what we are doing today. What a democratic cowardice! And finally, let me get a message to the Spanish State. Again, you have disqualified a president, and our fortune is that this time your empowerment with our people is translated into disqualifications and not into dislocations like that of President Companies. One pass after the other. Perhaps the next thing is to treat this Spanish State as a mature state, which evolves and understands that the ballot box and the view of the citizenry is what it has to respect, because until this point we know very well that it has not been so. What we do know, however, is that they can disable us, they can get us started, even take advantage of us. We all remember – and we'll have it tomorrow – the U of October, as it was months gone by to find papers, ballot boxes, and the solution was to beat the citizenry to want to vote the U of October. But we're still here, claiming our rights. Because the Spanish State, you know, its ability to cause pain is backed by history. What we claim is democracy, they are ballot boxes and respect the voice of a people. Even you can, sometimes with connivance with fascism, murder, as you did, in Guillem Aguló. What you can't hear is that after President Torra, as has happened in all the years of history, another and another will come, because what we do know is that we will never stop trying to continue that struggle that, like in Guillem, started and left it to life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.6.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.7.0	President of Parliament, members of the Government of Catalonia, Members of Parliament, it is obvious that President Torra does not sit at his side, and it is obvious that Catalonia is under the circle of repression. The repression is sometimes subtle, sometimes it is brazen, but today Spain is a freedom picker, and Catalonia is not, not to repression, yes to politics; we are also a dignity in politics, which represents very well the figure of President Torra, and it is to impenish and not to flow. For this reason we have asked for the appearance today of President Torra, to listen to him in Parliament, which is where he plays, where he talks and listens. They're not floral games, which the minister gave, it's the sobriety. President Torra has been disqualified to defend freedom of speech. Where's proportionality? Where are you? In Spain, the same State collaborates in the escape of an emeritus king who stole everything. In Spain, the king gets angry and calls the judiciary in Lesmes. In Spain, the monarch is judicious, because he's gone. In Spain, the harpsichords dance to the sound of corruption, while Bankia remains in no-res. But in Catalonia, in Catalonia, a central election board is able to charge the president of the country. This legislature didn't go well anymore. It began the winter of 2017 with a president of Catalonia removed by the State. Dey 155. It's been three years, and now the president of Catalonia is also ruined, because of his disqualification. And, previously, the President of 9-N was also disqualified for the State. Votes mordassats, given by President Torra. Yes, sir. It's a morally unworthy, politically unsustainable hunt. They think they're judgmental and they're botxins. Reaction, ladies and gentlemen; less rope and more toga; less rope and more toga. Spain has proven the effects of arbitrariness and finds itself comfortable, so comfortable that today it has lost control of the mechanisms of repression. We feel shame; we feel physical today. Today, Spain is a state addicted to repression and judicial and police violence. In short, to the rape. Since exile, President Puigdemont has incorporated an inspiring flaw into his M'. The president talks about the scorpion and his obsession to bite, to bite and all the master who has the will to help him. Oh, the scorpion, the scorpion! This is Spain: it always ends up spicy, it can't be. Spain picks up if Catalonia asks for decent trains; many years ago, worthy trains; they pick us up. And if we ask for an economic deal just like that. And he comes back when we talk about the right to decide. Or yes, guys, there's a day when we're putting the ballot boxes down. Spanish bites us because we talk about tangibles and millions, and then we bite again if we talk about intangibles and values. "How much democracy are you willing to accept Spain? , asked President Torra, in Madrid, September of a year ago. "How many? It was a question with an extended hand; it was the « Escort, Spanish of the 21st century. Why do you repress, Espanya, oh, Espanya! Why don't you ever have enough? And Spain has resposted, in the faith of God who has resposted. Spain does not tolerate divergence. That's why, when the reason could beat them, they sorted out the repression. For years, he accepted the idea that Spain had a certain franchise, a light franchise, a sociological franchise. We were wrong. There is no sociological franchise in Spain, there is simply no franchise in Spain. Yes, franchising uniformer, centralizer. Unit for unit; unit and make Catalonia, make Catalonia pass for the addressor. What a politically poorer idea, this one makes us believe. Mirin, this is 2020. Fifty years ago, the man arrived at the Moon, and Catalonia once again held a president and advisers in exile. As of 2020, Catalonia is returning to hold a vice president and other councillors and deputies from this Parliament in prison. We are in 2020, and forty-four hours ago, Spain returned to disqualifying the President of Catalonia for a banner that gave 'freedom of speech. Where's the crime? If crime is to put ballot boxes and defend freedom, let us raise the saying, because we too are and are also the greatest of sinners. To the president, when he was invested – I remember perfectly –, to the president, when he was invested, we talked about the platter under the panets of Paris, of the May of 68, of our obligation to transform. So, president, dreams are the beacon of tomorrow; without dreams there is no tomorrow; without dignity, without intelligence and without strength, neither. Effectively, it plays fortally and penetrating, and saves our institutions. If we are far from here, we are about a new political reality: the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan republic, explained President Torra. President, Catalans and Catalans, all this will be worth it. Protecting democracy, saving freedom and building a dignified, just, civic, fraternal republic will all be worth it. President Torra, Spain has gone from braking. It's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not unfair, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not guanya, it's not Thank you, President Torra. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.8.0	On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, will speak in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, it is not normal for the President of Catalonia to be disabled by a banner that defended the people's vote in the ballot box: "Freedom of political prisoners and return from exiles. It is not normal that there is a country that has its government in prison or exile. The repression of the U of October is not normal. It is not normal for more than 2,800 people to be retaliated, engaged or with open causes to justice in the framework of this general case against independence. It is not normal for the Criminal Code to apply before a political conflict that can be resolved by voting, as they have done to Quebec, Scotland or so many other places. It's not normal, so, what we've been living in the past few years. Disqualification is not normal; neither is the situation we have from now on. But we want a normal country, and we will do it; a normal country in which there is equal opportunity; a normal country in which institutions are served by citizens; a normal country in which justice is done by justice and is not dedicated to the judicial arm of Spanish political nationalism. We want a normal country with equal opportunities for all of the citizens; a normal country where their institutions follow those who listen to the citizens in the ballot box. And this normal country, we'll do it. And in the Spanish state mark this normal country is not possible and it is only possible in the mark of a free country, of a Catalan republic, of an independent country. I want to state, therefore, in this intervention that we make on behalf of the Government of Catalonia and that after, therefore, my company, Meritxell Budó, Councillor of Presidency, will also complete, I want to express, first of all, the support, all the support to the very honorable President Quim Torra before the Supreme Court ruling confirming the disqualification that was dictated by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. All the support, because it defended freedom of expression; all the support, because it also defended the dignity of the Catalan institutions, and all the support also before the attacks that have taken place during the years of presidency to defend some ideas, the attacks that many times have gone beyond what is political attack and criticism and have also affected the person and even his whole family. So, all the support, President, we're at your side. I also want to express my gratitude to President Torra for his work, for his tireless work, for his dignity in defence of the institutions and for his continued efforts. This legislature, and before the very honorable president explained it, was not easy. And now that he's in his final phase, he's not feeling easy either. We have experienced a marked situation for repression, institutional instability, the situation of Members of this Parliament, the judiciary, therefore, that there was the feeling of October of last year, the repressive situation, is not a good show. But there has also been an easy legislature in which we have had to deal with various incidents, fires, chemical accidents, accidents, natural disasters up to the pandemic. And here I want to hang on. The President of the Generality, President Quim Torra, has captivated the struggle against the Covid in Catalonia, and has done so in a context of uncertainty, difficulties. Also in a context of limitations in his personal health situation, especially in the first weeks, when he had also been infected with Covid. This fight against Covid has often caused misunderstanding. It is not easy to manage uncertainty, and we know that we are exercising government responsibilities. We are dealing with the difficulties of making decisions at the present time. But President Torra has come to them, he has accompanied the government's conjunction at times of great difficulty, he has always put people's lives ahead of him, the welfare of the citizens ahead of him. And, as the president said, Covid has changed us all. He has assumed the duty of defending the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia with all dignity. And I want to make it clear, let it clear. After President Torra's disqualification, he did not preside. And there is no president until this Parliament hears a president or a president, who is like the presidents in Catalonia. We won't normalize the situation. The Government of Catalonia, the Government of this country, in charge of President Torra, the Government of President Torra, as requested by us in the institutional declaration to the Palau de la Generalitat, will continue to work, will continue to face, in the first place, the consequences of the pandemic, both health care and economic and social. We will continue to work and fight this daily life, as well as a functioning government, which, as our laws say, the laws of this Parliament, must be limited to ordinary matters. But ordinary subjects do not mean in any case normalizing repression, nor normalizing this situation, because today Catalonia, because – because of – the actions of the courts of the Spanish State, has no president. But the country continues, and it also continues with President Torra and his commitment to defending freedom, justice and the dignity of our institutions. Now is a time of difficulty, a time of extreme complexity, but I am convinced, we are convinced, the government of President Torra we are convinced that following working folded, following working facing the difficulties face and with learning all these months we will face all these difficulties. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.10.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's the word now the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.11.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, we are here today in an extraordinary ple; a ple on the situation generated by the Supreme Court judgment confirming the disqualification of the President of the Generality, the very honorable Mr Quim Torra. Just three weeks ago he intervened in this same Faristol in an inquiry into the defence of institutions and self-government. And I just finished my speech recalling that, in a few weeks or days, the Supreme Court could confirm the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia that the very honorable President was unable to do so. The inability to exercise freedom of expression, thus disabling the country's main institution. And that it wasn't surprising the confirmation of this sentence didn't take the gravity of the situation, but earlier on the contrary. I said it at the time and I would like to repeat it again: this disqualification is very difficult for the attack on the same institution, but it is also very difficult because it directly attacks the civil and political rights of all our country's citizens. And as this happens, some would want us to believe that we live in a normal country, but the reality is that we are in a state that has violated all the democratic rules of the state. And, precisely, President Torra, in his investiture speech – let's remember – spoke of the three important words that define the stage we started. The president was talking about ‘exceptionality', because we are living with the reality of imprisonment, exile, lack of rights, lack of democracy; he was talking about ‘provisionality', because this situation cannot allow us to continue this way, we cannot normalize it, and he was talking about ‘responsibility, government, and today we are here. We're still in government. But unfortunately there has been no provisionality of repression, and exceptionality has continued and continues, and we have moved from the legislature of repression of the '' to the legislature of repression of togas. And in this Parliament we have not talked about politics on various occasions and also about the partisanship of Spanish justice. And it is so much judicial repression that we could be hours and hours exposing cases and analyzing how different organizations and national and international experts publish reports on the violation of the fundamental rights in the Spanish State. I would also like to highlight two very concrete legal readings in this intervention. In the first place, that of the Council of the Catalan Advocate, which sees a great disproportion in the disqualification of President Torra, which delegitimate the popular will and gives place to a disproportionate result and contrary to the most elementary principles of criminal law. And secondly, I would also like to highlight the opinion of Professor Javier Pérez Royo, who in a very didactic way affirms and explains with rotundity that President Torra has not committed any crime of disobedience, and concludes that this feeling hardly affects the functioning of the politically regulated system jointly for the Constitution and for the Statute of Autonomy. Look, I think very sincerely that the best vaccine against the demagogue that some fans confound disobedience with the crime of disobedience is, precisely, the reading of the article that commented on them and published yesterday Javier Pérez Royo. And with all honesty I also believe that if after reading this article those who consider themselves democrats, who consider themselves progressive, and defend the state of law, if after reading this article are not rebellious, I assure you that neither democracy, nor progressism, nor the state of law. And just today, without going any further, while Lesmes increases the influence of the People's Party in the judiciary, twenty-five MEPs denounce the violation of President Tora's civil and political rights. And all that, we're moving on and on. Let's move towards intelligent confrontation, because judicial strategy forms part of this intelligent confrontation with the State. We've seen how many years of exile are putting in place the foundations that will allow us to win this fight for our rights and our freedoms. German justice made it clear that neither rebellion nor secession, and Belgian justice made it clear that the Supreme Court is not competent. And, therefore, if we persist with a short look, but also with a mid- and long-term look, and in our most immediate horizon we persist in provoking points of inflection. For a band, the proper elections, as President Tora said, we must choose between democracy and freedom or repression and taxation, between the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan republic. And for another band, we fight for an amnesty law, not as an object in itself, but as a part of the solution to the political conflict, because amnesty can represent the beginning of a new political and social stage that advances in the guarantee of the fundamental rights and in the real will to find, as I said, a solution to the political conflict. And I would like to finish this intervention by addressing directly to President Torra. President, we're your government. We are your government, and, as you asked us in your institutional declaration of this very day, after the feeling of incapacity, we will continue to struggle, as you asked us, for the twenty-four hours of every day for the life and salvation of the citizens of our country. We will take the decisions that come at every moment, and explain to the citizenry, in a transparent way, in which situation we find ourselves. Convinced, as you have always asked us and as you have always done, that the maturity of the people of this country is not worth another way of doing it. President, it's been an honor and I'm honored to be a counselor to your government. A government with a trajectory that, from the first moment, you determined with two words: dialog and life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.12.0	Thank you, Counselor. We will now continue with the intervention of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.13.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Look, we're in a pandemic. We, in July, call for an extraordinary plenary on health for Catalonia, which is in a pandemic. We have it in October – in October – ; the plenary that we ask in July we will have it in October, but you, the separatist leaders, have assembled us in twenty-four hours a full to greater glory of Mr. Torra. That is Catalonia, that is its institutions under the mandate of separatism. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope many Catalans are listening to me. Judgment... Health plenary, several months, from July to October; Plenary for Torra, twenty-four hours. Pandemic both. And now you also block parliamentary activity again. Yesterday we saw how you were devocating the Digital Policy Committee, and today you have devocated the Labour and Social Affairs Committee, and we have not been able to debate or vote on the proposals that my colleague, Naomi de la Calle, had here on conciliation, on disability, on elderly people. Today, when we were holding this plenary session, we would have to have voted on the proposals that my group, my group, was carrying on, on the work and family reconciliation of parents who are having to juggle in the midst of the pandemic, tools to help victims of macho violence, care for people with autistic spectrum disorder, employment of persons with disabilities, combat the unwanted loneliness of older persons or proposals with measures for the aquatic rescue sector. But of course, here Catalans, for you, are invisible. All these people that we had to vote for today in a plenary, in a plenary of affairs..., in a social affairs committee, because they will not see their problems seen by the representatives of all Catalans, because they had to do the full destruction of Spain, democracy, the judiciary, to the greater glory of Mr Torra. You have converted... Goodbye, Mrs. Artadi, I'm glad you can't hear the truths we're saying. The first member of the separatist bloc present here today has already been deserted. They've turned Parliament into a loudspeaker, I tell you, for their harassment campaigns. In August, you set up a full to attack the monarchy, when the Catalans have been decisive, as an integral and founding part of Spain, in the construction of that monarchy which, in democracy, has brought us nothing but peace and stability. They are now setting up a plenary to attack the judiciary, which is, in fact, an attack on the separation of powers. This legislative power is called into question by the judiciary. Very normal, very normal in democracies. You, the next step, do you know what it is? For the one who has recently announced Mr Torra, who is questioning that he considers a stumbling block for independence the autonomy itself. The next plenary will set us up against the officials, against the autonomy itself, against the Mossos d'Esquadra, who have to maintain order in our streets against those who burn and throw pig heads, against the lawyers of the Parliament, who have to take over the law, against the interveners, mentioned Mr Torra. It's you, you know what you are? , liquidators of the institutions of the economy and coexistence. [[Some applause.]] So, I don't know which full will be next. I don't know how full you're gonna ride the next one. You have brought us this full of consolation for Mr Torra, this is a full of consolation to speak of the evil Spanish State. But Mr. Torra has been disqualified, because he wanted to. Look, you know, I'm a lawyer and what I'm telling you is that I've never seen a gentleman who gave the judges the reason and then complained, because he came to court, he said, "Yes, yes, it was me, I disobeyed, he gives the judge the reason, they condemn him when he pleads guilty and he doesn't seem to like it. I don't understand. It's the first time I've seen that, that when you're right, you complain. Look, Mr. Torra is leaving after he's fired three times before he sings the rooster. He said goodbye, if you remember, here in the general policy debate; he was fired again in that press conference that put him out of the office of the Palau de la Generalitat and today he has fired again. Three times. If in the meantime I don't understand how you haven't found a hole to justify, for example, the government crisis that prompted a purge of three government people who were purged to bring in three more like people. I've already referred to this and I'm pleased that the Tremosa Counsellor is here. I have referred to your predecessor, a Business Counsellor, who makes me wish you the same success that she had in attending to entrepreneurs, as we in the many meetings that we have held with the self-employed, with small and medium-sized enterprises, with the companies that are trying to keep up, with them and their jobs in this pandemic time, do you know what they were saying to me? They recognized that the councilwoman was picking up the phone at any time, that she was waiting for that at any time. We were collaborating from Ciutadans with the counselor and had a fluid relationship. Something that worked, they changed it. Her predecessor, she was dismissed. He did not have the necessary card, he did not have the impulses, apparently, to continue in this permanent agitation of Mr Torra. And they brought in Mr. Tremosa, whose merits are well known and to whom I have already referred on some occasion, which was the famous bull factory in Europe, bulls against Spain, bulls against Citizens. You are a person who has distinguished himself because you are a genuine factory of bubbles, and I say this to you – as you know – politically and with all the personal respect that anyone deserves, but it is so. Look, what could we expect from a gentleman who came in with racist writings under his arm? Racist writing. By the way, here's called Franchise Spain, Franchise Scorpion and everything and here nobody changes. There is no President of the Parliament here who cuts anyone, for lack of respect. No, not that. Now, call the gentleman who did the racist and xenophobic writings, which were described as such by the European Conservative Party, by the European Social Democratic Party and by the European Liberal Party, racist writings and xenophobic writings, that has cost us even expulsions and let us have the floor here in the atrium. A gentleman, Mr Torra, who came..., in May 2018 in his investiture said: « Farem republic, we will make republic; in October: « I did not come to administer cap mena d'autonomia, and, in the end, the truth is that neither autonomy nor republic, Mr Torra neither managed autonomy nor managed republic. Yeah, we're fine. I sometimes think: "Independent voters would do well to vote for Citizens, because we will manage autonomy and do the same, not give them the republic. They won't have the Republic with Citizens, it's true, but they won't have it with you either. Then there's no problem. [[Some applause.]] The independentist who wants at least to have a government that will make full to talk about their problems, that will vote for Citizens, because, if not, if he wants them not to talk about their problems, that he will continue to vote for you that you will find him very well. He made Mr. Torra, yesterday, at his farewell in Palau, and today, a populist speech, but book, go. [[Widow's remorse.]] You get into populist speeches... –Mr. Pujol! , that is, what a populist discourse you have marked here today, what an insulting and populist discourse you have marked – a poisonous discourse for society, divisions; speeches full of lies, repeated fables over and over again; speeches that qualify our democratic state as repressive, that mess with the judges and the crown, that are the institutions that preserve our democracy and guarantee it. A misrepresentation of the story continues. And you, from your particular vision, here, in this Parliament, in your schinitas, explain to us some things that fortunately I think you do not fully reach society, but to a large extent you do, with the power of your media and of the 33,000_million_euros that handles this autonomy as a budget and of the client society that you have achieved, and the power of the executive power... You, in the end, get to trap in society some of the lies... – in Catalan society – some of the lies. But in Catalan society. You don't get, because you don't have your own communicative ecosystem, that your lies transcend Catalonia. As much as they make some of their followers believe, that they are transcending; for no, they are not transcending. Today, in the European Union, the report on the European Union's rule of law, made by the European Commission, has been made known, and Mr Tremosa will know, because he has been by the European Parliament, and knows about European policy. Mention Catalonia. They know: "Oh, mentions Catalonia. Once – once – what does it say? " Political Prisoners? Repression? No, no, Do you know what he says? They say that journalists in Catalonia have serious problems reporting and that they are persecuted. That's what he says. [[Some applause.]] You should be ashamed, gentlemen of the Catalan executive: you should be ashamed. Just like the other day, I enjoyed... – and I will be forgiven, comes to mind, then I will have to pass pages of the speech that I have scripted because I get out of the script –, the other day we enjoyed, in Ciutadans, seeing my colleague Lorraine Roldán in the Senate debate with a lady of Republican Left. And my partner Lorraine Roldán told the Republican Lefty lady what she was saying that the UN had ordered release... – and she does so. [[The timer sits with the head]] Marta Vilalta – the release of alleged political prisoners. What were they saying. No, Mrs. Marta Vilalta : no. Whoever said that was a UN working group that we have succeeded in unravelling. A working group is not a UN body – it is not a UN body. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is a working group like we have others here in Parliament. Working groups for other things, with a few Members, who, by the way, we have discovered that... – we have discovered, and listen to – we have discovered, on our own, asking the UN by consulting on the transparency of the UN, not by the Government of Catalonia, because it has vetoed the information, that you were giving 150,000 euros to that UN group in 2019, and that in 2020 you have repeated that donation of 150,000 euros. Yeah. Yes, from Catalonia that information is not given to my partner Susana Beltrán, but it turns out that this is accessible, just like what you paid the American lobbies to press for independence, that they didn't tell us here, but that we find out for the transparency of the US Administration, that you put money from all Catalans for these things and then lie and say that the UN has said something that it hasn't said, because it's a working group. And do you know who else put money in the working group? Do you know who else? The Basque Country and Quebec. The Basque Country and Quebec. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, that's weird! A separatist lobby that smudges with money. And then Mrs. Marta Vilalta says... [[The timer sits with the head]] does so, and the lady to whom my colleague Lorraine Roldán was saying it, does so: "Yes, the UN has said so." No, the UN didn't say that. That you believe your own lies. Wake up – wake up – gentlemen. Look, this... in short, Mr. Torra's legislature has been a chapter to forget about being sad about the process. Between the "squeezing" and the "employee"... they came out with a good piece of legislation. The report... during the term of office, Mr. Torra has done nothing for the Catalans, but has given free rein to the waste that the previous presidents of the Generalitat also tolerated. And for what? Well, to have the independence machine greased. We've seen it with the pseudo-embassed chiringuites abroad. I have already referred to the opacity with which you have managed to anoint the famous UN working group and then be able to say that the UN has said something that the UN has not said. And we also have other examples. For example, the mysterious case of the Platform for Language. That here in Catalonia is dedicated to making vile complaints and public lynchings against workers often of foreign origin who do not speak in Catalan in their attention to the public, and lynching them in the networks, the Platform for Language. And then they also start spying on kids at school. Now it turns out that the Language Platform opens branch in Brussels, gentlemen – opens branch in Brussels. We intend to expose what we are convinced is happening. That part of Mr Puigdemont's pharaonic life in his Waterloo mansion is paid for through this entity that they have opened for that in Brussels. Because I will be told what the Platform for the Catalan Language is all about in Brussels, that Catalan is not much talk in Brussels. Maybe flamenco, yeah. Well, they're already explaining it to us. Yeah, now I see communicatives. Whenever we ask these things, we can't get clear water. But now perhaps Mr. Batet will come out here and explain it to us. The same in Ómnium, between quotes« Cultural, or the same with the ANC. All of this is being diverted from the money of all Catalans. That with the particularity of the diversion of money, and of the embezzlement, which was condemned. Here we have these famous political prisoners. It's that they used money from all Catalans to pay for the independence party. But we do have the classic corruption cases here. The classics of Convergence are still here. Following the misappropriation investigated judicially by which Buch passed on to an escort from Puigdemont as an adviser, follows Mr De Dalmases investigated for diverting money from the funds destined for international cooperation of the third world, which end up in Convergence i Unió. Follow Mrs Borràs investigated – according to you, for being independenceist; according to us and half Spain, by the emails we have read, is that she was rigging the contracts with her friends. The usual. I'm the counselor, I already give you the contracts, you have to do it like this and so, and I already pay you with public money. Normal. But they're chasing her for independence. "This repression. The evil judiciary pursues us for independenceists. Well, we've seen some emails. And, well, then... lies, lies and more lies. The secretary of sports remains imputed; a secretary general of the sports administration and nobody says anything here. There it is. Left Republican has foundations that give work to Mrs. Forcadell. It is presided over, the foundation where Mrs. Forcadell worked... – which was given to her, Mrs. Capella, precisely so that she could leave prison – is presided over and directed by a leader of Esquerra Republicana and ex-consellera and has already taken 13_million_de_euros. We also want to know that money to the cent to which it applies. And I, I wish I had Mr. Torra here, because I would have told him that yes, that he is leaving, that he is gone, but that he will come back. He'll be back. Because we will continue to investigate and audit what he did during his term. And the same thing Mr Jordi Pujol or Mr Puigdemont unfortunately cannot walk here, but Mr Montilla came here – he cannot walk here in Catalonia, I mean, in the Parliament of Catalonia ; « unfortunately I say, well, for him, but logically, too, because he is a fugitive from justice. But the presidents come back to explain their disguises here. They return, by the way, for the Committee on Institutional Affairs, not here to make them, let us say, a nationalist coven. They don't usually come for that. They come in there and give explanations. Mr. Torra has left and we will ask you all these things that he tries to cover during his term, just as he tried to cover since 2013 Mr. Artur Mas. Because we have information that hasn't been given to us since 2013. From international activity are all the advisors, from Mr Soler back, from Exterior, everyone is hiding from us the information about what we do, what is done with Catalan money abroad. But I tell you, Mr. Torra will come back because he's going to have to explain things. And we're not going to stop until we unravel the huge black hole that you've created with the Generalitat accounts to cover the whole party of the process. It's just to you, Mrs. Capella, it seems that everything is free. I mean, you think that the public money, the money of all Catalans is worth spending it on your parties, on your little bars abroad. I'm sorry you have to hear it, but it is. Mr. Torra raised his salary in the middle of the pandemic and now intends to go through the back door with his pension and his former president's chiringuito. Look, from Citizens we've... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Riera. From Citizens we have introduced a law to eliminate the offices of the former presidents, the offices and the paguitas of the former presidents, because in Catalonia we have presidents that do not last two years without delinquency, like Mr Puigdemont and Mr Torra, and then they leave with paguita for life. That is to say, two years of parliamentary term, they end badly and above all the Catalans we have to pay them a lifetime office and a much higher pension than all Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, Mrs. Marta Vilalta. Have they not explained it to them either? Have they not explained it to them either? I'll explain it to you, I'll explain it to you. The presidents of the Generalitat, even though they have had two years of exercise in office, then retire with the highest possible pension, even if it is only two years, you know? Apart from the salary they continue to earn for quite a long time after being presidents of the Generalitat and apart from the office that we set up for them and that we paid them all Catalans. Well, look, I'll tell you what. Citizens are going to try to introduce in the next plenary by single reading a law that ends all these economic privileges of the presidents of the Generalitat, which I remind you that the last four that we have, four presidents of the Generalitat, the only exception is Montilla, who came here to explain why he was on IBEX's salary and was at the same time with the office opened of former president, but, well, that's the least... But then we have Jordi Pujol, we have Mr Puigdemont, we have Mr Artur Mas, we have Mr Torra, all of them with judicial issues and all of them spending money from Catalans. Well, you know what? That in other autonomous communities they do not have these problems with respect for legality, but in other autonomous communities they have decided that the presidents of the autonomous communities do not have privileges. And I'm talking about the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, I'm talking about the Autonomous Community of Madrid, I'm talking about the Community of Balearics, Extremadura and others. Catalonia is maintaining an undue privilege in favor of the presidents of the Generalitat. And we want that money to be saved by the Catalans and will alleviate the effects of Covid on our society and face this crisis that is weighing on us for years. And that's what we're gonna try to get into the next plenary by one reading. All right, Mr. Torra... they only have seven minutes of suffering left. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Torra said that the Slovenians were clear about what they were playing, but that they came to the end with all the consequences. Do you know, no, what was the famous end of the Slovenians? War, war with the dead. For that to Mr. Torra seemed the sea of normal, legitimizing the path of the Slovenian war. You are a danger to Catalans – you are a danger to Catalans. You are. They applauded detainees for alleged terrorism; photos have been taken of terrorists such as Otegui, Bentanachs and Carles Sastre, Mr. Bultó's famous assassin, who hit him with a lapa bomb and smashed him. But you know what? You don't represent Catalonia in that. Catalonia is not so, Catalans are not like you, the generality of Catalans is not like you: they do not have or feel that hatred of Spain, they do not hate the rest of the Spaniards, they do not work tirelessly only against Spain and to destroy Spain. That does not represent Catalonia, fortunately – fortunately. Neither Mr. Fredi Bentanachs, nor Mr. Carles Sastre, nor the CDRs who throw pig heads and burn our streets do not represent Catalonia; that, fortunately, is not Catalonia, and Catalonia does not resemble the radicalism that you represent, the radicalism of your speeches here today. The 1978 Transition, which you hate, is an exemplary democratic transition that is being studied in the world, you know? Do I remind you again that today Europe has mentioned Catalonia once again in the report on the rule of law and it has not been for political prisoners but it has been because journalists here are unable to report freely? Do I remind you again, Mr. Batet? You're right, aren't you? Okay... well, sometimes you guys have that, pum! , suddenly come down to reality and remember what is happening in the rest of the world, not in their seats and offices, in the rest of the world, and what Catalans think and what they feel. Those Catalans we haven't talked about today about their social affairs that my partner Naomi was carrying; those, remember them sometimes – remember them. Catalans are not like you, they are not as radical as you. Look, I've met these months with a lot of associations, a lot of entrepreneurs... they're already fried. Catalans do not share their hatred for the rest of Spain, they want us to understand each other. And we can understand each other. Have I mentioned the case of the councillor before, Mr. Tremosa? And I also say to you..., look that we have a concept of you that hyperventilation is little, but we will understand each other; we will understand what it is to favor small and medium-sized enterprises and the jobs of all Catalans. You, we already know that you will use all your resources, as you have been trying to do, to destroy our institutions, to destroy the judges, to destroy the king. You have also made an allusion that I am always very interested in; you go as if you were David against Goliath: it is not true – it is not true, it is not true. You are not oppressed by more than a hundred_ thousand euros of annual salary, you are not. You are not a subjugated autonomy; you have 33,000_million that you administer to pleasure. Do you know who... where David's fight against Goliath is? David's struggle against Goliath is in all those Catalans forgotten by you and pretered by the media that you handle with iron hand. All those Catalans who don't remember: they're David and you're Goliath. You use all your power, all the billions you have to crush half of Catalonia, to ignore them. You cared about a radish having 47_per_cent of the votes in the 2015 legislature, which ended it with a coup d'état, because the other 53_per_cent cared about a dick. We were all here, representing this side of the Chamber to more people, to more Catalans than you, and they cared about a dick. Because you believe your own lies and administer your money for that: to shatter dissent. Yes, gentlemen, to encourage hatred of Spain, from here, saying that this condemnation of this gentleman who used the public buildings to advertise his candidates in the upcoming elections during the election period..., to say that that was the freedom of expression of that man lined up, who charges more than one hundred and a thousand euros a month, of course, and that now he is disabled and has his life resolved. For what? To subjugate more than half of the Catalans you ignore; for that – for that – that's what it's been about. Look, we don't believe that a successor of Torra, who in turn happened to Puigdemont, who in turn happened to Artur Mas, can lead Catalonia along the path of reconstruction. I do not believe, as I see it, in the light of Mr Pujol's speech, which deals with Spain as a Francoist scorpion, I do not think that, from this Parliament, with these Members who have this speech, someone can come out who can rebuild Catalonia, after all the insults you have directed against Spain and against more than half the Catalans. We are not about the blockade, we are not about the unilateral closure of Parliament, as they have done today: not about the fraud of artificially perpetuating a separatist government in office, Mr Aragonès, and yes about the legal mechanism to replace President Torra, of infamous memory, which consists in submitting candidatures in Parliament, Mr Torrent. And yes, to the Catalans decide in the ballot box the course to take Catalonia in coexistence, in union for the reconstruction of our society and our economy; yes to the elections now; yes to an election as soon as possible, and I hope that a united, moderate and sensible government will emerge from those elections...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.14.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.15.0	...something we haven't had in the last few years in Catalonia. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.16.0	And then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.17.0	Well, thank you, President. I'm telling them I'm gonna try to get a little more built, aren't I? Because I think you can say a lot of things, but I don't want to use this whole thing that was straining us and squeezing at everyone. Say that, good afternoon to everyone. They have already listened, from the political space that I represent, from Catalonia to Comú Pom, from Comú Pom, what is our position on the Supreme Court's judgment that has disabled President Torra – we have said it, and I believe that, moreover, we have been clear. Regardless of the value that we make of Quim Torra's trajectory as president, which is known to us all, we have said, and so we firmly believe, that he is a president who has not been at the height of his career, so regardless of his career, we believe that the legal consequence has been disproportionate and that, moreover, it is very difficult, and it is very difficult in the measure in which our self-government and our democratic institutions are weakened. Therefore, it is important for us to separate the person from the institution. But let me also say another obvious thing, and it is that now we have a government in place, but the crisis, the crises are not in place, the crises are not resting and, moreover, they are well active. And I have to tell you the truth: I think that with the situation that we have four months with a broken government, with a functioning government, with a government with limited capabilities, so that's not the best idea. The elections that we will have at fever, after about 125 days..., I think they will be very long, these days, they will be very long in the city and they will be very long, too, I believe, in the government, despite this darkness or this non-aggression pact that you have made. And that we could have saved ourselves; we could have saved ourselves if the president had called these elections, and in this way, they would have preserved the institution, and we would have saved the people for a long time. Because, I insist, the government is working, but crises are not working. And, of course, we ask ourselves: in this situation, what credibility does a government have in place to manage and respond to the industrial crisis, for example, that we are patenting, advisor? What authority, with what negotiating capacity, do you have in front of a company, a multinational, and tell him that he can't leave and that he can't take out thousands of workers and workers? We are talking about lost months to make a new national pact for industry in Catalonia, and all this happens in a scene where the Vallesos, the Baix Llobregat, the Barcelones, the Penedès are daunting directly, there are thousands of jobs that are at stake, and, moreover, we are playing the future of the trades. And, truth be told, I believe that this... with a government in place, with a government that is not strong, that is not cohesive, we will not have the capacity to negotiate before the multinationals, and to tell them clearly that they cannot do and dislodge their will. Another topic. Entities are telling us right now that we could, unfortunately, end the year with a percentage, with a child poverty rate that would reach 35_per_cent– that's six points more than before the pandemic. If before we had a few figures that were worrying, that were distressing, now, directly, they're already desolating. What do you mean, poor child? So it means malnutrition, it means more malaise, it means a lot of probability of school failure and, of course, exclusion and lack of opportunity. This means that we are stealing the future from our infants, and that now, even more than ever before, the postal code decides what will be the future of our children and our daughters. And before this reality there cannot be a fractured government and a permanent campaign; before this reality what we need is a global strategy of country facing the poor. And we also need something that many of you may not be able to do, and it's a presupposition for Catalonia. Even though you can't, with a government in place, make some assumptions. And before the difficult situation of economic crisis, of social crisis, they are necessary. We are also talking about the health crisis. It's true that it seems that the pandemic situation – we can't launch the bells on the fly, it's clear – would be moving within some parameters of a certain normality, a certain control, within the difficult situation we have. With a Rt that is under the u, that is in a 0.90– already said before the president–, we carry seven days down, and after fifteen days of the school year, so there is about 3_percent of groups that are confined– this entered into the forecast. But we can't relax, we can't be late again, just like we did in Segria, when, besides, the primary people are telling us that they're absolutely overwhelmed: they can't get to the chronic disease, they're paying attention to the bureaucratic tasks, they're following the Covid, they're paying attention to the residences, they're paying attention to the schools. And, besides, they tell us another thing: after the killing of millions that took Ferrovial away, they are not doing their job. And that's what the primary professionals are telling us. And if we're talking about education, there was a unitary concentration of all the unions demanding more resources for security in the classroom: they're asking for a reduction in rates, they're asking for a strengthening of prevention materials, and they're also asking for clarity when groups are confined. Therefore, more resources to ensure face-to-face, because, if not, it does not guarantee the fairness of an essential activity such as the right to education. And you know – and I think we've shown this – that when it comes to dealing with crises, you can always count on us, because we think we need to get out of party battles and focus on people's needs. But let me convey our concerns before the limitations of a functioning government. A government that's not only working, it's fractured, and we're living in a pandemic, a social crisis, an economic crisis. And we can't lose sight of another big crisis that we're going through, like the climate emergency. A few days ago, young people on the street reminded us of this: probably the climate emergency will be the big crisis, not only will we have as the country this century, but we will have as humanity, and the answer cannot be back to what we had before the crisis, the answer must be a radical change of product and economic model. So we have a lot of work to do and we're wasting time with this government in jobs that we don't know exactly where you want to take us. Therefore, I insist, with a government in office with limited ability to move from this scene, with the lost opportunity to preserve the institution and to have convened our own elections, and without having deepened the path of dialogue and negotiation to return to politics that is political and that is now being intervened by the judiciary..., this is the scenario in which we find ourselves. And that's why today, so, sadly, we have to talk again about the dynamics of the judicialization of politics that we carry from the governments of the People's Party. We have... – this is no surprise or novelty; in fact, I think we see it, painting, don't we? , from years ago – we have a judicial power, or, rather, a dome of the judiciary, which has played a role I think more than questionable in recent years; it has acted more like a guardian of the unit of Spain than as a defender, as a protector of rights and freedoms. A dome of the judiciary, moreover, with an absolutely uncontrolled activity, which applies the enemy's criminal law, as we have seen with the independent leaders who are in prison, and which, at the same time, is to protect, is to maintain the privileges of corrupts, mobsters, scammers, to the point of absolve, as it did yesterday... – we heard the news of Rodrigo Rato. So these people protect her, while others, who question the system, what she does is directly apply the enemy's criminal law. Therefore, an unfair malfunction that every time more people are seeing. And that's what happens when the members of the General Council of the Judiciary have their term expired two years ago, and they continue to make appointments. And all this is thanks to the People's Party, so it's shielding them and avoiding their replete. So they have the secret institution directly. Carlos Lesmes, who was Director General of Justice for eight years with the People's Party, therefore, continues to feel the head of the courts, and this is not anecdotal, nor is it casual; this is simply a response to a strategy of "how I have lost the elections, how I am not in government, so I arrive through the judiciary where I cannot get through the ballot box, without more. This is what the People's Party is doing, and this is what the dome of the judiciary is doing. We have seen one more time these weeks, when Carlos Lesmes and the monarchy were maneuvering against a democratically chosen coalition government, and also another example: we saw it when Ignacio Cosidó, the senator of the People's Party, said that he would control the door behind the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. So I think that there is a majority in this chamber that we could agree on in the diagnosis: we have a serious problem of intervention, of interventionism of the judiciary. Now, from this situation, what do we do? I think that's the question. How do we act before this situation? What do we do to change it? Who's the strategy? How do they work it out? Well, I don't think he's helping with anything, and I'm honestly saying, what the independent parties are doing. I don't think he's helping with anything. And what are they doing? So, it's putting all the powers of the State in the same bag. They're doing this. They're doing this, and the more they're saying that Spain is Turkey. Before we listened to President Torra : « Spain is Turkey. So no. They could say five, twenty-five times. Spanish is not Turkey. Therefore, you are playing to a confusion that benefits them, but I believe that it does not help to solve the problem, and that it does not respond to reality. You boil it all, put it all under the umbrella of the State and let's say that there are different conflicting powers in the same State, which act with different logics. It is not the same a secret judiciary for the right and the extreme right, that a central coalition government between the Socialist Party, United We Can and In Common We Can. It's not the same. It's not the same as the People's Party does as it does to Podemos. It's not the same either. So, I think this confusion that you're often playing doesn't let you see what's going on, and that's what I said, that there's a conflict between the different powers of the State. It is what we see when Lesmes makes speeches I do not know whether to say patriots or patriots to the nine promotions of judgments; it is what we see when Felipe VI wants constitutional legality, and it is, as I said before, when the crown, when the monarchy and the judiciary partner up to maneuver against a government democratically chosen at the polls. And, besides, without a doubt, one of the problems that physical powers have with this coalition government is that it has the clear will to advance in the resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, for life agreed, through the dialogue, through the negotiation. Now, the answer to the politicization of justice cannot be, I insist, or confuse it all, as you do on many occasions, and neither has proved useful the way of confrontation. I think it's quite the opposite. In fact, it has contributed to the judicialization of politics, and it has given itself the paradox, so that the togues themselves now have more power and more influence over Catalan politics, posing and betraying presidents. So this way, so, I think it has only generated impotence, it has only generated frustration and it has not served either to renew the judicial dome or to advance nationally. And that's why, if there's a way to change this situation, then it's working with broad agreements with other forces, with other forces from Catalonia and with other forces from the State. It has to be done to renew the leadership of the judiciary, but it also has to be done..., and I also want to celebrate that last week, together with Catalonia and the Republican Left, they signed a manifesto for the renewal of the judiciary and to fill in the inconsistency, let's say, the anti-democratic situation that is going on because of the lack of renewal of those organs that have the expired mandate, but it is certain that this collaboration, to say the least, has continued anecdotal, followed an exception. Think about how many things we might have put in front of this legislature and how many have stayed in jail because you have directly decided that you do not want to agree and that you do not want to negotiate. Because unfortunately for the Catalans and for the Catalans this legislature has been a legislature where no one has advanced, and they are not my words, are words of President Torra two days ago: "No one has advanced. This government practically assumed a lost legislature. And it is true that there followed, therefore, an abnormal, difficult legislature, which has been marked by an exceptional situation, but it is only necessary to recover President Torra's speeches to the general policy debate in order to see who his priorities have been. In fact, they were very similar to Junts for the Yes, that unique list between Convergence and the Republican Left. And it's been lost nationally, but it's also socially. Nationally, we have to see: now we have a government in place, we have the most weakened self-government, and we have the most affluent institutions. And I also want to get a story on this one. And it's that the last few days we had to listen to President Torra say that autonomy was an obstacle, it was a problem to achieve independence. I think it's good that a whole president of the generality makes that statement, doesn't it? We have come to say, therefore, that the Parliament and the Government of the Generality, therefore, do not serve for anything. This statement is hard for us. It's hard on one side, because it's missing all the people who left their skin, who left their lives, who fought for the self-government of Catalonia, but it's also hard because we consider it to be giving away the enemies of Catalonia. The institutions of Catalonia, the self-government of Catalonia have limitations? So much! Do we have to move forward in strengthening self-government, in ejaculating it? Of course I do. Now, making this statement would come to say something so that it is better for the National Police than for the Mossos d'Esquadra, that guaranteed income from citizenship is not for anything else or that the Catalan public school should not be worth it, so well, for example, it has done for linguistic immersion. Therefore, we consider this speech that the Catalan institutions and the self-government of Catalonia is an obstacle to achieving independence, so it is a speech that we consider to break the great consensus that we have from Catalanism and like the country and that, moreover, it is a dangerous speech. And socially – socially – we have not advanced as we should have done. When we hadn't gotten out of the 2008 crisis yet, so, we find ourselves with a new crisis that's going to surprise us all again. A recent report from the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services tells us – a few days ago that this report has come out – that Catalonia and Madrid find themselves at home in social investment, in social spending per inhabitant, a 10_per_cent under the Spanish middle. They are rich territories, but in change they are broken by poverty and inequality. And the same report also says that the absence of general state assumptions that it does is to spread the trend of recovery from social spending, even putting public services at risk. Nor have we advanced in the reversal of the privatizations of sanitation, in the demerchantization of residences. We haven't changed our product model, either. Actually, now we're paying even more; we're still very dependent on tourism and construction. We haven't advanced in renewables... And it's true that we did get one thing, that it's getting out of the presupposition prorogation of 2017. Now it seems very far away, but only five months ago. But if we don't get there – and that's what Vice President Aragones knows well, and a good part of the government knows well – to agree to have some assumptions, right now we wouldn't have any, and we'd still be on the prorogation of 2017, because when we started negotiating them, he'd do little more than a year, you, the government, they were already... – as I say? – embolized in his cockabarales and there was a section of the government, therefore, that had no interest in having these assumptions. Therefore, we see that in those moments the priorities were one and now I think they continue to feel the same, that they are not, therefore, to manage or cover the needs of the citizenry. And so much so that we agreed, and that we had assumptions, and that we went out of the way, and that I think that, obviously, and we have said, there were no assumptions that we had done if we were in the government, but that I think that they had some better ones that were important and that were needed, so once more, and today we could see again, President Tora... I said it to the general policy debate and today it has done it again. So, I insist, huh? Despite the fact that we have made Catalonia presumptive, despite the fact that we are an anti-repressive force, despite the fact that we are hand in hand to fight against crises, despite the fact that we have moved the Socialist Party on the subject of Catalonia, that we have a table of the dialect, that we are advancing the reform of the Criminal Code..., however, they insist on making us look like the victims of the film. But I'm also saying, it's relatively the same for us. I mean, we understand that it forms part of his speech, but we are clear that the country has other concerns that are much harder, much more important than sterile toilets, than useless toilets, that seem more like politics, and I say that in the negative sense of the word. I think there are certain toilets that are not used to add up, that are not used to build up and that are not, of course, used to move forward. Therefore, we are not voted or paid to devote ourselves to the games; we are paid and voted to work for the country and with this will it is with which we come here. Because, moreover, we are convinced that Catalonia is a great country; it is a country that, moreover, has come out of many; it is a country that has been a reference for many of us, that has attracted talent, that there are diverse people, creative people, open to the world, innovative... But it has to be said that right now, at least we see it here, the country is dislocated, there is disorientation. Or go on, we're at the end of a cycle, the process is over, you want to stretch it, and you want to stretch it simply to keep it in power, but that no longer generates change. There is disorientation, I insist, and that is why it is important for us to talk about the future, but above all it is very important to talk about the present. And, besides, I'll say, it's important to talk, but above all it's important to act, because, as I said at first, we have a government in place, but crises are not in place. And that's why I'd ask you to have a lot of big words, epic stories, and above all to add your own mistakes. Do the others have it? Oh, so much! And we know it, and we say it, and we denounce it, and we just have to listen to each other: politics justice, state keymen, who now come out with the Kitchen theme, the rise of the extreme right and of Vox, a corrupt monarchy, a socialist party that often has to look at its left... Clearly there are problems, and there are problems all the time. But that shouldn't make us cover up our own mistakes. Because, besides, when it comes to self-criticism, you always say you've done a lot. "We've done a lot of self-criticism. And I ask myself: "What's the use of self-criticism if they want to resipate in the same rock. What is self-criticism for? Or follow, now you want to fall back into the epithet of plebiscite and the epithet of exceeding 51_per_cent. Now, it's also true, they don't know why. Actually, I'd say you don't know that either. Mirin, yesterday I was listening – I think it was yesterday, yes – the Tertulia of Catalonia Radio, and said the Lord Sabrià: "We do not want to fall into symbolism. Laura Rosel asked him, the director of the program: "President Tora said that the proper elections will be plebisciteries. Isn't that a symbolism? And Lord Sabria said: "I have not spoken of plebiscite. So, here we see that there's something that doesn't fit, because this is the government itself now in functions that we have in Catalonia and theoretically it's what they want to repeat. But he was following the tertulia, because it was passionate, really. He continued the tertulia, said Mr. Batet: "We have to exceed 50_per_cent, and this has to be binding and has to have political effects. Hello? Come on. And then Mr Sabrià said: "We have to exceed 50_per_cent, but that does not mean that we follow the final one or that we have independence. Come on, huh? This is what you want to plant for Catalonia, doubts and uncertainty. Just yesterday morning, or go on, you don't have to go much further. So right now, we're listening that you want to exceed 50 percent, that's the goal. I want to remind you, an objective that is electoral, that it is not a country objective, because it is supposed to be legitimate, or at least a sector that thinks, to repeat the unilateral path. And of course, and I ask myself, are they really back on the same page? Why do they want to insist on error? Why? It's just that you're incomprehensible. So the only answer I'm getting is because maybe, so they don't have much more to offer. Clearly, because here it is not about whether an independentist or not, I believe that here it is about assuming that Catalonia is plural and of having a project for the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, regardless of whether they are independentists or not. But of course, after so many frustrated expectations, they can only offer, on one side, the supposed unity of independence, which I will not value, but I think it is obvious that since the late 2017, therefore, this unity does not exist – let's say so – and the other thing they can offer is to mark an objective as exceeding 51_per_cent, I insist, that it is an electoral objective, but it is not a country objective. So before his epic of everything or anything, before the empty epic that I think no longer has the potential for change, so I'm here today to claim hope. A hope that may be more modest, that may be more humble, but that I think it serves more to transform people's lives, and that has moved forward into national, social, and economic land. And so fully aware that right now, because, besides, that's what I'm getting at and that's what they're telling me, right now there's a lot of people in Catalonia who are resigned, who are sad, who don't know where this is going, and who think that after these elections we'll be the same again, that we'll be a country every time more exhausted and without prospects. But I want to say – and I want to insist – that is not true. I mean, I'm convinced things can change. And, besides, I think the central government is a good example of how things can be different. With its limitations, yes, and so much, I recognize it, and because we don't want these limitations to follow us by marking the path, we want our own choices to be more, to have more strength and to be able to go more quickly. That's right. Therefore, of course we have our limitations, but we are showing from the central government that there are things that can be done differently. Think for a moment what response they would be giving a government of the People's Party, of Ciutadans and Vox to the crisis we have right now. Think about it for a second. So I believe that I already assure you that the ERTOS will not be extended to the 31st generation, as we did yesterday, nor would there be an extension of the ban on denunciations because of Covid, nor would the social bonus be extended. Things as basic as this. So it's a reality that things can change, it's a reality that we can have a law to regulate the price of lloger, it's a reality that we can have a central government that takes on awareness of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, that offers political and advanced solutions in the reform of the Criminal Code, and that more understood that the situation of prisoners and political pressures is an obstacle – it's not only a humane and legal issue, but also an obstacle to being able to advance in this solution. It is a reality that we have an opportunity to make general assumptions of the State that are progressive, that are expanding. Today, you have already said, there has been an announcement by the central government, an announcement that is important, and that I am more aware that since the Department of Economics its importance has been recognised, that the central government is suspensing for fiscal rules, the spending rule for 2020 and 2021. Clearly, different things can be done. No, don't look at me like that, Mr. Pujol, because it turns out that with the People's Party what we'd have, they'd be detailed. It's not suspending tax rules, so that's -- that's it. Or go on, it is a reality that we have a republican force that is at the central government that does what it can do, but that as a minimum it is denouncing the corruption of the monarchy, and that we have cities as important as Barcelona, as València or as Cadis, that are governed by republican forces. And it's a reality that the feminist movement has gone into the street, changed lives, changed consciences, and that right now, from institutions, we have to keep moving forward with a law against sexual violence, also eliminating the wage choice, and so much work that we have to do. And it is also a reality that the lives that we defended in solitary, I insist, from In Comú Pueblo, as the reform of the Criminal Code, took shape and will soon culminate. Therefore, some say that it is the same to have a government of the Socialist Party, of In Comú Pode and of Unidas We can that of Mariano Rajoy. Next thing you know, it's amazing. It's not the same. As much as some would like it to be the same, it's not the same. Just as it's not the same as resident doctors covering a fair amount and not working more than forty-four hours a week or not, which is what they're claiming. It's not the same as the staff who clean hospitals, who's also playing life, have a reward like you put in and infirm or don't have it, which is what they're complaining about. And the same goes for families who can't take care of their opinions and their lives, so either because they're working, or because they don't fit the piss or because life is very complicated. I believe that these families have the right to know that their people are well cared for, well cared for, and that they spend the last years of their lives in a dignified and happy way too, because the great people, who seem to finally have to conform with a bed and with a warm dish, also have right to be happy. And I think it's our responsibility, all of us, that all of us who made it possible for us to be here, who have given us everything, so now we're giving it everything. I don't think it's the same thing to retain talent, to be pioneers in cows, in research against malalties, or to be at home and to be the best investigators. And I finish, and I do, I insist, as I said before, that the government is functioning and crises are not. And I also do this by claiming the epitome of common causes, agreements, cooperation and republican values. That's why we're here, to make hope come true. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.18.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Cry has the word of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.19.0	Well, thank you, President. President Quim Torra is the President of the Government of Catalonia, so this Parliament decided to do so. At this moment we manifest it and we bring it all our support and solidarity before the repression of the State, a state that disables civil and political rights of all. Bank Thieves and Monarch Mafia in Freedom, Independence Between Rexes, In Exile or Disabled. President Tora knows that we have neither shared nor shared his government's policy. We have criticized and criticized that his independence report, that his declared pronouncements of self-determination and resistance before the State, as his speech today itself, have not been translated into facts and that his government's practice has always contradicted them or almost always. No restitution, no constitution. And we regret, we very much regret, that the feeling of his disqualification has been done in a humiliating and undemocratic way. Obviously, we find ourselves before a judicial macro-cause against independence, based on political persecution that aims to prevent the exercise of the right to self-determination. For this reason, we continue to demand the freedom of all political prisoners and prisoners, the free return of exiles and the amnesty of almost three thousand, three thousand people retaliated. And let us reiterate the defence of the legitimate exercise of the right to self-determination as necessary to break with a corrupt monarchic rule and crusher of the rights of speech and as necessary and essential to build Catalan countries that do not leave anyone behind. Before the Spanish State has published to the BOE the termination of President Quim Torra, the Government has already convened the Executive Council and held the President. And the DOGC publishes it without even expecting that the Constitutional Court is manifest about the appeal filed for President Quim Torra and about the precautionary measures of suspension of his disqualification. Master's play, a new master's play of an absolutely flat autonomy, agnolled before the State, of a state that considers that the votes of Catalans and Catalans are no longer valid. So they arrive together for Catalonia and Esquerra on the anniversary of the U of October. We do not make this government agreement that repeats the answer to disqualification to a bureaucratic process. Everything folded is more of a show than before there's a state without scruples, but nothing we don't know before. If we have come to this situation without any direction or strategy shared and with no other institutional horizon than a transition pact in the best of cases, following the feeling between the two government parties, it is for the inability of these two parties, precisely, to work for a strategy shared with the rest of the country's political and social agents. We've tried all the way to the end, with proposals, sit down at all the meetings and we'll follow it. In the past few weeks, the CUP has made every effort to achieve an independent democratic confrontation agreement before the incapacity of President Quim Torra. It has not been possible; you have opted for an autonomous government agreement following the judgment. This legislature began with repression, with 155 and some elections called for the Government of the State and with the waiver of the exercise of the civil and political rights of deputies and deputies in prison and exile, and ended with some active elections for the Spanish courts and with an invalid president, the third. And with a growing repression, without upsurge with 2,850 cases and lawsuits and with the one hundred and forty complaints that Barcelona suffered last week and that went on increasing this week; with a parliament without any sovereignty and continuously interfered with the Constitutional Court for what it does to its debates and pronouncements on the monarchy or self-determination, with a state anchored in repression and without democratic solutions to the conflict, with the People's Party and Citizens' Party in relation to the fire of repression and the violation of rights, and with the PSC, PSOE and common and we can govern the State in the hands of the regime, without responding to self-determination or amnesty. Absolute Fractures of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra. An impotent government, unable before the state and capital. No progress in self-determination. No recovery of sovereignty over the territory or infrastructure, services and basic resources of the country, and an economic and social policy that deepens inequalities, the precariousness of the most vulnerable and the impoverishment of the majority, as well as the increase and aggravation of the climate crisis. Fractured from his main bet in this legislature, he managed autonomy and dialogue with the State; each time he had less autonomy and a false dialogue without any real negotiating horizon and no democratic resolution response to the conflict involving amnesty, repression and self-determination. This is the balance of his government and this legislature. This is the end of the process. Indeed, we are in the zero point and we are on new fire, starting a new cycle of struggle and sovereignty, mobilization, civil disobedience and confrontation with the State; a new strategy to exercise self-determination, a new struggle to force the State into a democratic resolution of the conflict that encloses the exercise of self-determination, the son of repression, amnesty and the guarantee of all social, civil and political rights; a resolution that can be ratified freely and democratically at the polls. Tomorrow is the 1st of October and the experience of the U of October we do not have after independence does not arrive from the law to the law, but from a popular revolt. Therefore, it is very important that the institution continues to work in the wake of the conflict with the Spanish State and that, at times, it creates spaces for sharing strategies with popular movements, because the independence movement is the movement with the greatest potential to be a social, political and economic change engine in our country; what today has the best ability to overthrow a corrupt monarchy, to hold the economic elites that impoverish us, to fight fascism, to try all the struggles for social, civil and political rights in a shared democratic project. When together for Catalonia and the Republican Left take this stand, they lose the last opportunity of this legislature to rebel against the utterly undemocratic State that removes presidents and elected governments for the fact of laying ballots and exercising civil and political rights. The sentence could have served to plant us and summon great mobilizations on these dates so appointed. But no, this government does not accept the electoral commitments that led it to govern, that it was none other than to carry out the popular mandate of the U of October referendum. And the answer to all this requires a great national and political agreement, a great social agreement. It is our proposal on which to build a new unit of action of independence, which with the learnings of '1 and 3 October, of the mobilizations against the feelings of the Supreme Court, leads us to the definite struggle with the State and to gain our freedom. Faced with the inevitable call for early elections, since the Popular Unity Candidacy - Crida We are committed to working on the table to put forward proposals that give response to the socio-economic and health crisis, taxing the government's policies in function when we weigh and weave an alternative to regain the lost credibility of the independence project with a break-up agenda with the 78 rule and building the best candidacy and the best political proposal to face the current context. Now we need to respond before the violation of rights and plant in front of the State, going out to the streets of barrels, viles and cities to face the offensive of a repressive Spanish state that imposes, through the courts, so that they can't win at the polls. We want this new episode of the repression of the State without an institutional response worthy on the part of independence to be the last chapter of this free fall in which we are installed since 2017. For this reason, the CUP is committed to presenting and pushing forward a country proposal so that it starts the payback, accompanied by a follow-up of passes to set up and end the fight and give the sort of exit, once again, to a new democratic confrontation project to do what we didn't know how to do well three years ago, and that we will now return with determination, certainty and until the later consequences. A proposal that gives an independent response, but also a social one, in view of the crisis that has worsened in the past few years and also the result of the health crisis, obviously. Responsive to the repressive offensive of the State, but proposing a political project that was sufficient an alternative to what we have experienced in the past few years. Defending a fair distribution of wealth, a life-saving economy, a habitation and a decent job for everyone; pa, stops and jobs. Right to health, education and culture without inequality. Defending the territory of speculation and destruction. Surely, they will continue to mislead public money the already failed project of Barcelona World, which seems to have been the Castor project of the Catalan government? Well, today's the inkling of a tipping point. We understand that and we work on it. It is necessary to recover political initiative and illusion from this very moment. And so the proper elections are a plebiscite of independence. We will have to sort between more autonomy and claudications, and independence, which the CUP proposed and with which we commit ourselves, of struggle, of struggle, of sovereignty and without claudications. Because you, together for Catalonia and Esquerra, are talking to us about exceeding 50_percent of the votes. For this reason, Junts for Catalonia also speaks, in some moments, of plebiscite. And the question is: and when the superim, this 50_per_cent, what do they think they're doing? What are we gonna do? Will they do the same thing again? Following the State and managing autonomy as they have done with President Torra's disqualification? Therefore, it will also be necessary to sort between following as yet or doing different things, starting another political cycle defined for self-determination and the rights of all. We obviously propose this second option and commit ourselves to it. And that's why, here and now, we say we're the alternative. And we take this challenge with responsibility, and illusion, and willing and willing to face the new challenge with all its consequences. And out, that everything is going to do and everything is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.20.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.21.0	Thank you very much, President. I will divide my intervention into two parts; a first to analyze what has happened in recent days, and then draw scenarios for the future. Let's go with the first part. I have come to the conclusion that, in recent days, we have been analysing what has happened with regard to juridical, political analyses, when in fact the matter is much simpler. Disobeying an election board by a banner is pre-teen behavior, nothing more. Preteen. My four-year-old daughter is more mature than many of you. I have not explained to my daughter what an election board is – God forbid, poor girl – but I am absolutely convinced that I explain the episode of the banner and would understand it perfectly, because it is exactly the same as when I say to her: "Honey," picks up the toys. And she, reluctantly, picks up the toys. Well, it's exactly the same here. An electoral board, which is an agency created to regulate this kind of thing in democracy, tells them to remove a banner. Then remove the banner. Was it so hard to understand? Look how simple they make it. Still, I admit that, taking a few turns in my preteen theory, I assume it has some shortcomings. And I read that Mr Quim Torra is going to receive a lifetime pension of EUR 92,000 a year, of which I have concluded that he may be a preteen, but not a fool. Silly, I'm sure he didn't. Curiously we have in Spain to retaliate: 92,000 life-saving eurazos per year, little cruelty ours in Spain. So much so, that I solemnly demand that the Spanish State be retaliated exactly as Mr Quim Torra. Moreover, I announce that, if the State gives me a living pension of 92,000 euros, today I hand over my parliamentary act, I dedicate myself to the dolce vita, that the position I have only gives me disgust and I need a little peace of mind. In short, let there be already victimisms, which we all know here, ladies and gentlemen; we all know each other. So, ventilating this first matter, let's go to the really important thing, which is the future. I would like to reiterate here today the commitment of our party to be able to make available our Members, at the disposal of the Chamber and at the disposal of the other political groups, to unlock the political situation in Catalonia. We must do this generously, without allowing this process to end up becoming an electoral rally for anyone, whatever it is to move forward to give the Catalans back their voice in the ballot box, the sooner the better, the better we will have our support. That's where they'll find us all the time. I also want to end by conveying a message of hope to millions of Catalans who today feel an infinite buzz when they see images of other Catalans throwing pig heads at the police, destroying urban furniture in absolutely dantesque shows, thrown out by the most inept gang of rulers we have ever lived in the history of Catalonia. I want to transfer them all that we will go ahead, and we will go ahead because the Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards have overcome even worse things. And we've done it from the concord, always from the concord. These are good days to explain the difference between concord and appeasement. The appeasement consists in yielding and crouching the head in front of anyone who violates the law, an international treaty or whatever. In fact, it's a very old story, it's happened many times. This deeply mistaken theory that, by squatting the head before the law-breaker, the other will lower the tension a little bit. It's exactly the opposite. The appeasement always emboldens those who fail to comply with the law or fail to comply with an international treaty. Unbelievable as it may seem, appeasement has been the technique that the Socialist Party has been using all this time. Mr. Iceta isn't here today, and he seems very bad to me. I don't think it's for the reasons he brought up. I think he feels uncomfortable in a debate because he moved us and all the Catalan public opinion that, with his theory of appeasement and distension, all this would become a spa of peace and love, and that we would be able to pacify the Catalan situation. It is less bad that it has managed to pacify the situation of Catalan politics. But as incredible as it may seem, even though appeasement never works, they continue to insist on it, they continue to insist on defending the need – they say – to whiten past crimes with pardons to people who say they are going to do it again. They continue to insist on defending impunity for future crimes, changing the characterization of them, as a tailor-made suit for people who say they are going to commit them again. The appeasement never works and will never work. I don't know how many times you have to learn that lesson in history. Concordia, ladies and gentlemen, is another very different thing. Concordia is from respect for the law or by changing the law itself collectively and legally – we have done so at other stages in our history in Catalonia and the rest of Spain – looking for meeting places, among all. Among the different. Among those we think very differently. It is to flee from the civil war that is beginning to settle unfortunately in our society. What some people put forward, what little memory they have, are the typical jockeys who believe that in wars only the people of one side die. For we say, from the People's Party, that neither civil war nor appeasement, always concordia, because concordia was the 1992 Olympic Barcelona, concordia was the Catalonia of growth and full employment – that there was it and not so long ago –, concordia was the Catalonia capable of leading tourism, innovation, science, sport – that was it and not so long ago. This is in a very simple and telegraphic way our offer to the Catalan set: agreement and good governance. We are convinced that there is no better recipe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.22.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and Deputy Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.23.0	Good afternoon, very honourable President of Parliament, advisers, Members, Members of Parliament, all the citizens who are following us. Good afternoon to the very honorable President Torra. "If we want independence, it is because we want to live in democracy. This is the phrase with which President Torra opened the investiture session on May 14, 2018. Obviously, it's not just because we want independence, but we also want independence because of it. That was a very complicated moment, a very complicated moment where we wanted to recover the institutions of our country at that time in the hands of 155. And we were able to regain the presidency of the Generality thanks to the step ahead of President Torra. Thank you, President. And I wanted to start with this sentence because that day I had felt it but today in tea still more, today it has still more vigor, today it has still more strength. After the last decision of the Supreme Court, we again find that we are not in full democracy and that the only way out, if we really want freedom, if we want democracy, if we want prosperity for Catalans and Catalans, is the path of independence. It is not that it is disproportionate, inadmissible or surprising the decision to disable a president to defend freedom of expression with a banner, as we have read these days in the diary, it is a democratic barbarity so great that the Supreme is not able to explain it in the 133 pages of the feeling, because as all the decisions they have to deal with Catalan independenceists, the background is not legal; the background is only political. He's a political fan of the courts, and he's against whoever he thinks he's his enemy, against us, against the independenceists, the only political movement that's really made the 78 rule. They are sad days for democracy, for freedom; sad days for Catalonia. The State wants to make another decision on our behalf. The Supreme Court has decided to disable a President of the Generality to defend freedom of expression. And the very honorable President Torra knows that he has us and will always have us at his side, always. It was a very difficult legislature, marked for the repression of the State from the beginning, for the recovery of the institutions taken for 155, for the beginning of the negotiating table and also, at a later date, for this inhuman pandemic. Thank you, President, for being at the edge of the cane these past few months. Thank you very much. The space of the presidency..., the presidency of the Generality itself will be emptied during these months as a gesture of complaint against an unjust and shameful decision to turn away a president just to defend freedom of expression. From today Catalonia will have a strong, united government, a coalition that we wanted to strengthen, but also a vacant presidency to protect the honour and dignity of an institution that precedes and survives us. You let me, today, that I don't ever do it, make a personal note. This morning when I was preparing for the intervention I couldn't help but think about when we met the president, when we met with Quim Torra; to remember those afternoons of disbanding the Josep Pla Foundation, when we presented the books of his little editorial and talked about literature with the Year, and after talking about the country with Màrius. It was 2009 or maybe 2010, and we were like in a future in freedom, and we couldn't even imagine for the world what we were living together afterwards, where we would be now, how much we have suffered, but above all how much we have progressed nationally; a dream that we haven't finished yet, but that we don't have enough, and that together we will end, and we will make it necessary for the Catalan Republic. This whole legislature has been marked by the repression and judicialization of the Spanish State, which has not only not stopped at the moment, but at some point even intensified its cruelty. This same week we saw the disqualification of a governor, the case against Tamara Carrasco and the disqualification of the President of the Generality. A ball nose, a WhatsApp and a banner. I'd laugh if you didn't feel so bad. It's unfair and it's a democratic shame and an attack on freedom. All the causes that were open to it have continued their course, continued the persecution of exiles and exiles, continued with prisoners and political pressures seeing their rights limited, usurped and trampled. The State – we know – uses the repressive path because it is unable to gain democratically. Against ballot boxes, papers and votes: injustice. Against democracy: repression. He seeks to do us for; he seeks to change the citizens' vote; he seeks to stop us as a democratic and peaceful movement out of the playing field, because through the vote he cannot: at the polls always gain independence, always. And let's work so that every day this victory is more extensive, because this victory is clearer. We must conjure ourselves up to prove every time that there are ballot boxes that our strength grows, that it is every time greater, because there is nothing but do them more because the strength of the people and democracy. Your own point... – she was going to say "Mrs. Albiach", but there is no such thing. Own goal: Yes, exceed 50_per_cent; make them win where we are stronger, and win them more and more. And maybe he won't have enough. And we're gonna have to do it again and again. Repression has a very clear objective: to escape as political movement and divide us. And we can't fool ourselves: in some moments we have fallen into the parany of the State. The distance, the forced incommunicado of our leaders, the lack of a shared diagnosis has affected us and brought independence to episodes of division from which we are sure to be proud. It has been divided and confronted, despite the fact that we have always shared a common objective, and this certainty that it has been or has been the worst moments of this legislature; the lack of a shared strategy that we have demanded since the 21st of December and that has led us to the current situation. You know that the stage where we are today was not our option, we liked less provisionality and a shorter interim, at a very complicated time for the country, but it was a matter of prioritizing the agreement, it was a matter of seeking consensus. It was important not to see each other again when they were attacking us. And so we did. All of the steps that are being taken these days are agreed between the governing partners, between the coalition companies. Today we are experiencing a new attack by the State on democracy and the sovereignty of Catalans and Catalans, a further part of the general cause against independence, which continues to expand every day to end political ideas. Enemy's criminal law, manual. But we've got a lot of bad news for the State: so they won't win, they won't get together, we never give up, and we're moving slowly but irreversibly, we're growing up every step, and we're going to be doing it for a long time. Every time and every injustice makes us stronger and grows us, and we know that the path will not be easy, that it will not be painless, that it will take much work and that no one will give us anything. But we also know that after October 2017 we have already exceeded the point of no return. The path to Catalonia's independence is irreversible and the speed will depend only on the strength we can build up and the ability we have to prepare ourselves better after learning. The State must know that they can disable, prohibit, fine, undertake; but they will never be able to mislead our ideas. More than ever, we reaffirm ourselves in our struggle for the freedom of the country, for the independence of Catalonia as the only way, as the definitive way to end the repression of a lost, wounded, old-fashioned and demophobic state. We want independence to build a better country, where there are no democrats to put ballot boxes or invalidate presidents to defend freedom. They will never be able to disqualify any ideas, any anxieties of justice, or the freedom of a people who want to decide freely what their future is. We want independence because we want all the tools of a state, and we want to put them at the service of the best of our people's lives, because we want Catalans to enjoy the opportunities they have today. We want independence to make a republic for everyone. We want a country where freedom is defended is not a motivator of incapacity; a republic where democrats emerge from prison and corrupt people come in at once; a society where Oriol, Carme, Dolors, Quim, the Jordis, Josep and Raül are at home, and Urdangarin, Borbons, the Rat, Barcens and Millet are at the garjola; a country where there are no 2,850 people who are awaiting trial only to be independent, or, in some cases, not even that, only to be democrats; a country where fascism has no foundation or can intimidate people who are pursuing our impunity; a country where the police do not persecute people who want to vote for or persecute them; a country where political ideas persecute them. Unfortunately, however, repression is not new or will cease. We know this state perfectly well, and that makes it even more powerful the step that President Torra took in accepting the charge and burden. And it is that the Spanish State has a serious problem with the institutions of our country, and especially with the President of the Generality. If they could abolish them, they would not fit with their nationalist and uniformist conception of the Kingdom of Spain. But we have kept them poor despite everything, despite the fascist dictatorship and the current repression, with shortcomings, sure, but poor, and they are essential if we want to keep moving forward. Institutions, such as social support or parties, social entities and economic agents, all – all – essential in this struggle for freedom of the country. The case of President Torra is only the end of a long and difficult persecution against the presidents and Catalan institutions, and especially against all those who have worked for freedom and for the republic. Macià had to go to exile; Lluís Companys, who had been engaged, exiled, detained and disbanded, and this October will be twenty-eight years of his assassination; Irla and Tarradellas lived his presidencies from exile while the Faixist dictatorship lasted; Arthur Mas, who was unable to put the ballots on 9-N; President Puigdemont, and the Government of the Generality who had made the U of October, who had been dismissed and who had been engaged or exiled, together with the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell, to have allowed to vote. And now it's President Torra, who is disqualified for a banner that defended the freedom of prisoners and political media. We must protect, today and every day, the institutions of our country. They are phonative, the embryo of the building of the future Catalan Republic. All we have been able to do until today is thanks to our own institutions and to the struggles of many before us, from the Commonwealth to the Republican General, and to the present. The national continuity crystal·litza through its institutions. There have been generations who have given it all so that we can pass the witnesses and follow. And we, fortunately, have had the responsibility of culminating, but without his work, without the work of many of them, we would not have the opportunity to win as we have today, and especially of the republicans of the thirty-and-a-half years, who kept the institution alive, keeping through the presidents of the companies, Irla and Tarradellas the thread of the legitimacy of the Generality in exile, the only institution of the republican era recovered during the Transition. Today, here, alongside President Torra, we are the ones we have never given up, the ones we have resisted despite who once told us the other that it was impossible. And today, once again they want us down and down again, it is up to us to remember again: we are the heretics of those who proclaimed the Republic in the thirties and defended it before the Faixists; we are the children and the nets of those who had to leave exiles or suffer the dictatorship, of whom the Faixism wanted to kill; we are the nets of those who had to raise hundreds of barrels with their hands, and they had to do the keys to their streets; we are the children of those who fought because they taught Catalonia was in català, because it was the only way to guarantee the equal opportunities of all the citizens. We were all together on the road to St. Boi in '76 when we cried 'Freedom! , and we are part of those who collect signatures on 79 in favor of abhorrence. We are the people of the Assembly of Catalonia, but we are also the people of the Caputxins. We worked together to defend people without papers to the Church of the Pi. We're the ones we camped for 0.7 percent and the ones we cried for Sarajevo. We've always fought together because everyone looks like you and looks like who you want. We are the ones who believe that all people are the same. We cried out all together "No to war! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We fought together against the transfer of the Hebrew. We're going out on the street to say we want to stick. We made the U of October possible and went out on the street on the 3rd of October. We are the ones who felt with unbelief and eagerly the threatening words of the monarch, of that monarch and of this monarch who does not represent us. We're the ones who went out on the street to sign for amnesty. And now we can't stop and we can't divide. We have shared one and a thousand struggles, all of them, to build a better country, and now there is only one way: to fight for the republic. Because fighting for the republic is defending the country, it is defending its people, it is defending the great consensus that we have achieved until today. We're here to win, because winning is about freedom, rights and opportunities, and winning. Before a new attack on the sovereignty of Catalonia and our institutions, we can only find more, stronger, more prepared and even more convinced. These days we have conjured ourselves to assure the government as much as possible, to pilot the country during this period of inter-internship and provisionality provoked by the decision of a fearful court, with a double objective, always with a double objective: to advance towards the Catalan Republic and to face the health, economic and social crisis; to lead from the government the reconstruction and progress of the country, because the needs of our people do not wait. Responsibility, consensus, strategic unity and maximum anti-repressive solidarity before a few hard moments for our country. Now more than ever that we work together to face the common opponent and do it with empathy to the city and all these people who are patenting a fierce repression and the effects of an inhuman pandemic. The political repression we have endured, divided and defeated. And before that, more political, more united and firmer; a country response. It's time to look for Catalonia. And we think we'll all be at the height of the historic moment. We see each other in the streets and in the places of all the people to make us feel our desire for freedom against repression. And we will show every time that there are ballots that the strength of independence is ever greater and that democracy always, always wins. This today is a little more on a path that is already irreversible until the final release. President Torra, we'll do it for you, too, and, above all, we'll do it for you. To the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.24.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.25.0	Thank you very much, Vice-President of Parliament. Vice President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, today we cannot greet the very honorable President of the Generality, Mr Quim Torra, and another time again, it is not the first time that he passes here to the Parliament of Catalonia, to his sovereignty, that we cannot tend the presence of the President of the Generality. MPs, MPs, for Catalonia and for life, we can only start this intervention on a day like today with a thank you to President Torra. We want to express our support and reiterate the recognition for your heart, for your humanism, for your loyalty to Catalonia. He took over in an extremely complex situation. We would all remember the first six months of the year 2018, with a 155 that had usurped our institutions. Here, at the first bench of the Government, there was no one, it was empty, as empty is today the chair of the President of the Government of Catalonia; with a repression that, for three years, since '1 October, has not stopped, incessantly, and that affects more than 2,850 Catalans and Catalans, and, in the last months, with a pandemic that has led to a health, economic and social crisis without precedent. We know that there has been no easy way, also with external obstacles and also with some internal obstacles, which we do not have to love. Surely now we are more aware of our fevers, of our weaknesses, as we have seen here today, at your own in the Parliament of Catalonia. But we also know best who our strengths are, and I am convinced that we will be able to take advantage of them for when we have the opportunity. In any case, we cannot forget the deal that some groups of this hemisphere have dispensed to the President of the Generality of Catalonia. It has repeatedly failed to respect, with a vexatious attitude, in a totally deplorable and unjustifiable way. Let each one carry with his conscience. It's not all about politics. And neither was today, Mr. Carrizosa; neither was the day that everything went on in politics. And also President Torra has been at the height of the circumstances. He has always acted with dignity, with sereneness, with responsibility and honesty, and has taken away any ambition or personal desire, always prioritizing the country's interest in the party; always ruling for everyone, for the sake of the well-being of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, and they have been able to demonstrate it especially, in a very clear way, working with each other and with one another during the confinement we were living in Catalonia last spring, and working until the last minute of his mandate to combat the devastating effects of the pandemic. « For Catalonia and for life they were the last words he uttered in his investiture speech, and he completed it with scriex, in the faith of God. We are infinitely grateful to him. We are also convinced that Europe will find the justice that has not found Spain, and that Spain does not exist. And we know that we will continue to work together to secure freedom and the Catalan Republic. Because independence is the only way forward, and today we see it: once more in this Parliament we celebrate the plenary without the presence of the President of the Generality because the State has disabled the President and we have a government without the President. Unaudited, inversely, but real. The State has once again overthrown the first institution of our country, the presidency of the Government of Catalonia. And of course, today someone..., if you come from outside Catalonia, you arrive in Catalonia and you ask questions, without knowing the context and what has happened during these three years..., and you ask: "I listen to what crime has become the most representative of the Government of Catalonia, of our institutions, why has it been disabled? What should we answer? The crime is defending freedom of speech. The crime is to have defended a fundamental right; a fundamental right that recedes article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and also article 20 of the Spanish Constitution, for those who still defend it. In a state supposed to be a right, a member of the European Union, in the 21st century, the President of the Generality is incapacitated for a banner, in the midst of a pandemic; for a simple banner that demanded freedom. And if freedom of expression is not respected, if the will of the people expressed in the ballot box is not respected, can we talk about democracy? Do we live in a democracy? The Spanish State has crossed a new red line, and once again they ask us all, not just the independenceists, but all the Democrats, because with President Torra the State's disqualification, democracy in Catalonia is again disqualified. Because they are now persecuting the independenceists, but they may have the certainty that they will suppress any person or group who wants to question the status quo of the 78th rule. And it seems to us that some parties and some ministers are already beginning to notice. For this reason, parliamentary groups committed to democracy cannot look impassive on another side, nor hide in subterfuge, nor take refuge in equity. And, in this sense, we have found ourselves missing the round sentence of some groups of this chamber, but above all we regret the absence of the Socialist Party of Catalonia today in plenary. Socialists have emptied their escons, but they have also emptied their Catalanist, democratic and progressive vocation. It is an indecency and a lack of institutional respect that has not participated in this Ple, posing as a profile, as they always do, as Pedro Sánchez did in order not to sign the decree and publish it to the BOE. The legislature ends the way it started. The powers of the State have not paid for the referendum of October 1 and have not digested the results of the elections of December 21. That's the reality. That's why the legislature ended just as it began: with the heights of the State, with the clusters of the State giving our institutions. The State remains unrespected of the majority of the citizens expressed in the ballot box; they have stolen our vote and have maintained our sovereignty. We have seen this with the application of Article 155, which was approved by the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party three years ago, ceasing the Government of the Government of Catalonia, dissolving the Parliament, calling for elections, and from now on they have not respected the results of the elections. We saw... as was preventing the investiture of President Puigdemont, as was not allowed the investiture of the Jordi Sánchez, as half the plethora of the investiture debate was put in prison by Councillor Turull because he was not invested president of the Generality of Catalonia. And today we have seen it again, when the President of the Generality of Catalonia, the President Quim Torra, is disabled. Always with a lot of presses. Actually, I'm not expecting... and we're waiting to see how the appeals that have been filed with the Constitutional Court or that have also been filed by their lawyers. Because, of course, Spanish justice has many presses to disable President Torra, and they have led the Supreme Court of Catalonia to execute a Supreme Court ruling instead of executing its own ruling. Therefore, let us not forget that everything can be null and void, the one that has been done since the last few days, respects the disqualification of the President of the Generality. We have also seen how he was altering his sovereignty and altering the results of altering the majority parliaments here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Seventy independent MPs. When could there be this legislature here in the Parliament of Catalonia seventy independent MPs? When have they been able to vote, the seventy independent votes? More! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Either they were in exile or they were in prison, and they wouldn't let them vote and they wouldn't let them participate. If 'lshan tret or their rights have been suspended. Or the minutes of President Torra's deputy were suspended. Or they didn't let them access their political rights. Never in this chamber for three years has there been a majority of seventy independent MPs who the citizens voted in elections; altering most parliaments, altering democracy, stealing votes and carrying the sovereignty of the citizenry. The state has imposed a few elections on us. The answer of the October U, how they didn't like it, how they didn't like the result of millions and millions of Catalans voting on October 1..., said they called for elections. And they said to us, "No, no, it is possible to present everyone in these elections. I remind ministers of the People's Party to say: "No; you can present everyone in these elections. And so it was. But we won the independence elections, we won the restitution, we got seventy deputies, under very harsh and very adverse conditions, with people in prison, with people in exile, calling the elections overnight, putting very adverse conditions, in which Catalans and Catalans went to vote, more than 80_percent participation, and independence again won. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, And since he didn't win the state election at the polls, he doesn't tolerate the result. And since the 21st of December we have seen that all the powers of the State have been used to torpedo the result of the citizens' elections voting in the ballot box, which is the most sovereign thing to respect. Rarely, if you're independent and work for independence you can't rule Catalonia even though you win the election. And so much so that governments in Madrid, if the People's Party, the Socialist Party with Podemos, with the most progressive government of history..., with motion of censure, false hopes and expectations. He does so much who governs in Madrid, because we have seen this for these three years, that they have all acted in the same way, not respecting the outcome of the elections. Honestly, this is all less democracy; this is demophobia. And after the 155 we've seen? Yes, we have been able to recover institutions with limited powers, with the pressure of justice and the State constantly taking over BOE, which is why they are needed. We have recovered institutions, but we have not recovered democracy. We have not recovered democracy, because the results have not been respected. We're in front of a demophobic state and that sometimes it's a negligent state – it's a negligent state. Why? Because leaving the Government of the Government of Catalonia without president of a health, economic and social crisis as we are living in these moments of extreme gravity, we can only take this into account: negligence, irresponsible and senseless. So it's that the state doesn't care about people's lives? But is it that the state doesn't care about the most vulnerable people? But is it that the State does not worry about safeguarding businesses, the locals, the workers, the people who are leaving their efforts to the hospital helping people..., and the residents, helping people who are with Covid? So don't worry them that in this situation... that they don't know in whose situation Catalonia is, in whose situation Madrid is, in whose situation the Spanish State is? I will only quote some relevant data, without going into detail because we were already able to explain to the general policy debate a few days ago in a long and wide way what the situation was. In the health field 13,000 deaths in Catalonia, 160,000 affected, with more currently 24,000 students and 1,500 teachers confined to their home and with a risk of rebound located at 163 points and with a rate of 0.94. Indicators that in no case can cause us to lower the guard. In the economic sphere, the Catalan economy fell by 21_percent, with a tourist tax around 13_per_cent, without counting the ERTOs, and with a decrease of 77_percent from the arrival of tourists in Catalonia respecting the past year. And in the social sphere, until July, 160,000 people needed to go to the Food Bank, a 40_per_cent more than before the pandemic, and practically with the same figures than in the previous economic crisis. And here we talked about everything, Mr. Carrizosa. There have been three full monograms of Covid, a general policy debate, appearances of the councillors, two appearances of the President of the Government of Catalonia – some of them telematics – and the Government has acted responsibly, and the political parties have been able to follow it up, and the Government, whenever required, has come here to Parliament to give its face. Five full monograms talking about Covid, between the general policy debate and the appearances of the President of the Government. Don't say here that we don't care about the pandemic situation, on the contrary – on the contrary. And in the current situation we can go to the best we can go to the worst. We find ourselves in a situation of uncertainty. The next few weeks are the key to seeing the current Covid moment evolve. We're at a crucial moment, we're playing forward or backward in pandemic control. We need to reduce the risk of contagion, we need to facilitate all the socio-health professional resources, as President Torra said here to the speech, which we continued to fight against the pandemic, articulate the measures to preserve the state of welfare, offer solutions to guarantee an economic recovery and build the Catalonia of the 21st century. At a time like the present with huge challenges that we have to face as a country and as a society, the State, in terms of helping, stands up to the wheels and disables the President of the Generality who has led the pandemic all these months, who has anticipated, who has listened to the experts, and the State always went late and poorly with the recommendations made by President Torra. The Spanish State and Unionism seem more obstinate in curbing independence than in curbing the pandemic of the virus. That's why this is more undemocratic than ever. We consider President Torres' disqualification to be an erroneous, fearful and irresponsible attitude. And in this sense, in a democratic and neglectful state, like the Spanish State, it is no stranger that we find ourselves before a state that is failing, where the king has the emerit fled, not knowing where, a whole state head of the State. When the present king has resigned from his duties that he holds the Magna Charter in line with the right and the extreme right, with a judicial conflict like that we saw last week here in Barcelona between the executed power and the judiciary, with a shoc without precedents between the executed power and the judiciary, and without mentioning the keys of the State, the CNI, Pegasus, and everything that will come out, because everything will be known – everything will be known. So, then, we must be aware, the conjunction of independence, that we must be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the fall, the ensulsification of the 78th rule. The present moment propitiates a horitzó that we must be able to enjoy. They're attacking us for the U of October? So we have to answer with the U of October. From Juntes per Catalunya we understand that the best answer we can give to the disqualification of President Torra is to revalidate the U of October and exceed 50_percent of independent votes in the next elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. They attack us for the U of October..., because President Torra the incapacity for a banner that posed "freedom of speech, to defend political prisoners of the U of October ; how they did not allow the investiture of Jordi Turull for the U of October ; nor of President Puigdemont, for the U of October ; nor of Jordi Sánchez, for the U of October ; as of other major parliaments, for the U of October. They're attacking us for the U of October? Catalans have the obligation to respond with the U of October, which is votes and ballots, which is the playing field where independence always wins. And how do we do that? So we have to refer to the chain of confidence between politics and civil society, between parties and entities, as we did the U of October. And we need to replace ourselves and we need to conjure up a joint strategy to make the U of October and the results of U of October and if we are more than 50_per_cent political consequences. Because when we go together, we win; when we go together, we go forward. I'm done. After three years, we have seen what made the Spanish State, blessed for its monarch, that is to rule the '' after them, repressed it. The State claims to fulminate the political and social leaders of independence with constant threats. He pursues politics and pursues civil society, people who simply show up; this week we have seen, Mr. Pesarrodona, the Tamara Carrasco, among others, but we are talking about 2,850 reprisals, the majority of citizens anonymous to whom they also want to try to double. And, look, maybe they've misled us – maybe you've made them, because before they've been around a lot – maybe they've done us wrong; maybe independence and we're not prepared for so much repression and so much for them; we don't see them getting over certain limits. But we already warned them: they didn't win us. You've failed. Unionism has failed, because they have not deactivated us and fewer have defeated us. And we haven't had it, we haven't had it, we haven't had it, we won't have it. We remain depressed and determined because we keep our convictions intact, that it is wanting the independence of Catalonia to achieve a better country for all Catalans and all Catalans. And we haven't given up and we won't give up, because the prison hasn't given up. You have put them in jail, but all of them – all of them – remain firm in their convictions. Because in exile they have not surrendered, despite the espionages, despite the judicial persecution, despite all the interbanks that have made them to get to the European Parliament, they have not surrendered. And because citizenship has not gone, as has been shown in all and every election they have been called to, in which there have always been more votes and more percentages and more deputies than in the previous elections, of independence. There's always been a growth. And, look, we're leaving. We're determined. As President Torra said on more than one occasion: "We are on the right side of the story. Between freedom and yield, we'll sort freedom. Between hope and revenge, sort out hope. I between the Catalan republic the Spanish monarchy, triem the Catalan republic. We are prepared, together for Catalonia is prepared. Let's get ready so we don't give up. Together we win. Dream Catalonia free! Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.26.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the debate is over, I guess the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions ends at seven in the afternoon and the deadline for making the transactions will be three-quarters by eight. The subsequent debate on these motions for resolutions will be approximately eight. We suspend the session until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.27.0	Well, good night, yeah. Let us resume the plenary debate on the situation generated by the Supreme Court ruling confirming the disqualification of the President of the Generality, the very honorable Joaquim Torra and Pla. And we do so now with the debate on the motions for resolutions tabled in the register and, precisely, by the order of this presentation, there will be a maximum of two minutes for the parliamentary group and five for the subgroup. In order to defend the motion for a resolution submitted, it has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez. Natalia Sánchez Dipp Good evening, good night to all of you. It has already been said, but we repeat it: the disqualification of the President of the Generality, the disqualification of President Quim Torra, is a democratic aberration. The state has decided that independence votes are not worth, that they don't count. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of Catalonia, also Mr Iceta, who has decided to follow this Ple from the sofa of the house, this does not go from Quim Torra yes or Quim Torra no, it does not go of independence yes or independence no, but this goes of democracy. And this disqualification is not a side event. It is obvious and known to everyone that this disqualification is part of a general cause against independence. A general case against independence which seeks to silence us, but which also seeks to reach through the courts where it does not reach the ballot box. Before, in the previous speeches, Mrs. Albiach said: "It is not the same government of the PP as the government of the coalition of PSOE and Podemos. Certainly, it is not the same, but in the substantive questions, the uplifting questions, few things have changed. Today, Catalonia has 2,850 people retaliated to defend the right to self-determination. Thousands of workers who suffer the consequences of a job reform that have not been able to repeal. Activists, musicians, rappers..., hundreds of people retaliated for a biting law that continues to exist, and not to talk about the amount of lives – mass lives – truncations for the foreign law. Therefore, it is not the same, but in structural questions, things remain the same. And it said that the State intends to arrive, through the courts, where not up with the ballot boxes. A state that, moreover, has made the blockage of Catalan institutions its priority. We have seen this for the past three years: suspended investments, banned investments, interlocutors of the Constitutional Court of which we have lost count, democratically elected deputies suspended... Censorship re-censorship. You can't talk about self-determination. They can't talk about monarchy. In short, the Parliament of Catalonia cannot speak. And today we are here, in this plenary, to give an answer to this democratic aberration of incapacitating a president of the Generality chosen for the Parliament of Catalonia. And during all this time, during all the State's interference against the Parliament of Catalonia and its sovereignty, traditionally the independence groups presented a PDR, a joint motion for a resolution. It won't be like that today. The CUP did not want to present a motion for a resolution with Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left. And we've already explained it to them. We don't do this because we understand that the government agreement that they have reached to respond to President Quim Torra's disqualification is an almost fine agreement that takes President Quim Torra's disqualification as an administrative process. Like a fast, harmless journey. They've come to a pact of minimms, a pact of non-aggression, a darkness before the elections. In his opening speech, Lord Sabria said: "In historical times, you must be on the rise. So they haven't been up. At this historic moment, we haven't been up. The mayor of Berga, Montse Venturos, said: "A disqualification is not a struggle with martyrs or with people who immolated themselves. Call a joint strategy and it's not there. I'm sure it's not. For this reason, before the repression, we believe that the best anti-repressive response is to continue fighting for the objectives for which today there are 2,850 people retaliated. And that's why we're going back to proposing what we think is an obligation: to recover and rebuild the major consensus through a national agreement for self-determination. In short, the UPC came to the conclusion that the disqualification of President Torra is a summary, a synthesis of which the Dozene Legislature has been, that began to suffer from the repression of the State and that it has found the obvious lack of capacity to give it an answer. That their democratic shortcomings do not make us obviate our strategic shortcomings. The year ends and his government has been unable to advance, to listen to the movement, to give solutions to the people. We consider it necessary to put an end to this drift that has been the protagonist of the Junts Government for Catalonia and the Republican Left. As the independence movement regains its course, regains its initiative and regains its illusion. The CUP is committed to it. In this we are, in recovering the course, the initiative and the illusion, that you own the choices the people can choose if they continue as we have been these three years or prove that there is not only another way to live but there is another way to govern the breakup and for full independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.28.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.29.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Counselors, counselors. I am going to make three reflections, a double proposal, a reply and a final question. Reflections or findings. The first, the disqualification of the Molt Honorable President Torra is a blow to democracy. He said a lot during today's plethora. But it was the culmination of a legislature where we suffered persecution, prosecution and where they wanted to bury and silence the ballot boxes. He wanted to bury himself and silence democracy. What it is to do is to expel political opponents without winning us in the polls, but trying to win us in the courts. And so, we find ourselves in front of a democratic scandal, and so we have to report some of us, too, from this Faristol. The second reflection or observation: there is no justice to the Spanish State. Well, or in any case, the justice there is profoundly unfair. What exists is revenge, and so we have suffered independence. The courts are not in the service of the rights or laws but in the service of the unit of Spain. A president is unable to defend freedom of expression; a president is also suspended, and a government is condemned, to put the U d'Octubre ballot box; a president, too, is unable to decide citizenship; it is unable to choose who the Parliament wants to choose as president of the Generality – so it has passed with President Puigdemont, with the Jordi Sánchez, with the Jordi Turull – ; judicial interference with judicial interference, and up to 2,850 reprisals and reprisals in our country. And while all this is going on, parallelly, while the corrupt king, escaped from the Spanish State and all the powers of the State looking at another gang, or today we know how the violent Blanquerna avoids her prison despite a firm feeling, and the direction of Bankia, therefore, excused, because it is already known who pays hand. In the State, therefore, there is neither democracy nor justice. A third reflection, yet, or observation: we can only overcome this repression with more political force, with more democracy, which is where independence is stronger. How they can't disable ideas – because they can't disable ideas – how they can't disable the project we're defending, that it's a better country for everyone, that they can't disable the ballot boxes, it's just that we're closing in on the ideas, we're closing in on the Catalan Republic project and making the ballot boxes stronger than ever, and we're working and putting ourselves to work to achieve it. Because yes – and we will follow it many times – democracy always wins and, or we win it or they win it forever, and because, before its attacks, we are convinced and willing to make it even stronger. The double proposal that I said I would also make during the intervention, which we will vote on today and hope to approve, so the one that we have jointly tabled for Catalonia and the Republican Left, and in which I highlight the main headlines. From now on, we remain confident in the very honorable President Quim Torra as President of the Generality, claiming that this Parliament voted in May 2018. Also in this proposal we give support to the Government, a government that is now in an exceptional situation, certainly, but we give it all the support because it continues to be useful to the citizenry, because this is the reason for being the governments, and that it continues to act with full responsibility, that it is the obligation, certainly, of the political leaders, and can give response to this situation of current complexity – economic crisis, social crisis, health crisis – and that you do so with joy before this incapacity. We also denounced the violation of freedom of expression and that the election results were not respected, with these failed investments and vetoes for the judiciary. We see, therefore, a general cause that attacks very many people, that affects very many people, that attacks the Catalan institutions, and especially the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. We also remember that the Central Electoral Board issued a resolution against President Torra without competence, and with his fully politicized members, to some extent directly linked to the Ciutadans Group, who today did not come to listen to the end of this debate despite the fact that we have all listened to him, which they have said, even though we do not share in what... his opinions, yes we have listened to him now, are not there. In any case, he said that one of the members of the Central Electoral Board linked to the Ciutadans Group..., and that he demonstrated the judicialization of all folded. Certainly – and an incis –, pathetic the battle over who has made possible the disqualification of President Torra that these last few days we have seen in the networks between the People's Party, Citizens and Vox, want to pose the medal of who has favored the disqualification. It's the absurd race to see who's the most dopey. We are also making an effort, in this motion for a resolution, to the institutions, and we commit ourselves, therefore, to denounce also at international level and be able to spread this attack on democracy. In fact, the international arena – which is where there is justice, because there have already been judicial victories, and where we hope there will follow – is where we must continue to work. And, in fact, today, twenty-five MEPs have denounced the violation of President Torra's civil and political rights and of a majority of voters in Catalonia as well. Finally, in this proposal we also declare that, as much as they do, the conflict between Catalonia and the State will remain alive if we do not find a political response, if we do not find an answer that must be based, obviously, on the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty, a response that, as we repeat, therefore, is political and must be democratic. I also have two proposals, one which we are presenting as a motion for a resolution, but also a proposal for a future beyond what we are debating today. And it is that from Esquerra Republicana we defend that the proposal to gain definitively independence has to pass to continue working, to build and rebuild this strategic unit, to recover the complicity between the citizenry and the institutions, as we held October 2017, to be more and to be stronger still, strengthening and protecting the Catalan institutions, working, as we say, for internationalization, in addition to shared struggles, ruling well and feeling useful to the people, betting for dialogue and negotiation, together with non-violent struggle and civil disobedience when it is necessary to make everything possible folded. And that's all while we're still working for the people in this coronavirus context, and this is also the priority of this government. And that's why we've been through these last few days, in order to defend the institution, in order to defend the Government of the Generality before the attack of those who wanted to divide us, who wanted us to resign and who wanted us to abandon. So no. This government is still useful to the people, because it is the reason for being the political leaders, and it is continuing to compromise, therefore, with the Catalan Republic and with a firm progress in the way to make our country's independence possible. I had said that I would also make a reply, despite the fact that there is no one to whom it was addressed, but I cannot be replying to Mr Carrizosa, because he asked me directly before the debate. And two questions we wanted to explain to Mr. Carrizosa. About the Working Group of Arbitrary Detentions of United Nations, which he– you– failed to respect. Remember that yes, that indeed, this working group demanded the inn in freedom of prisoners and political pressures and that it has pronounced itself in many other cases of the world. And he knows he's the curio, or do they know what curio is? That Ciutadans validate the resolutions or information issued by this working group of the UN when they speak, for example, of the political opponents of Veneçuela, but in case they omit when they speak of the independent prisoners. For some things it does, for another, it doesn't. A second point, because he said something like that to Mr Carrizosa that "we have discovered that the government's economic contributions to this working group or to United Nations... And what we wanted to say to Mr Carrizosa, who unfortunately is not here to listen to him, is that to what he explained as if it were the great discovery of investigative journalism of the Ciutadian Group in are public data, and according to the textual words of Mr Carrizosa said: "The Generality anointed the UN Labour Group with 150,000 euros in 2019, so it has not been said that the Government of the State contributed 1.3 million euros in 2019, but that must not be anointed. And, in any case, the year 2020 data varies a little, those of Catalonia, no, it contributed 150.000_euros, the Generality of Catalonia, through the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, while the Spanish State contributed a little more: 1.5 million euros. Therefore, the exclusive of fake news on the ground has been given to him. In any case, I end, as I said, with a question, a question addressed to the citizenry of Catalonia, in general, because the disqualification of President Torra does not only ask the independenceists that we chose in this Parliament. The president is the president of all Catalans and all Catalans, he is the first institution of the country democratically chosen and, therefore, he should ask all the democrats of this country to defend the ballot boxes because he is there, in the ballot boxes, where we are all equal, where the vote of each ballot is equal. And the question is whether they still believe, these people – that they may not be independent, but that they are democrats – if they still believe that we have a future in this State, if it is a state that can guarantee rights and opportunities. And what we answer is that this is only possible with the Catalan Republic, which is not against anyone, but above all that it was able to live as we deserve, in full democracy as the free citizens in a free country. And now, I remember a wine from the Mafalda of the Great Quino, to whom we want to pay a tribute, which today we knew had died, a wine from 1987 that is so effective. The Mafalda said: "Yes to democracy, yes to justice, yes to freedom, yes to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.30.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.31.0	Good night, President Torrent. Councillors, advisers, Members and Members, let us finish this specific debate by debating these motions for resolutions. It is true that we finish the legislature as we started it, with the voice of the empty president, with the lack of all the Members and Members in this Parliament and with those parliamentary groups calling for elections and then not respecting the election results and they are not here to listen either. And they're giving us lessons in democracy, because we'd be listening to each other in a different situation. We have defended this motion for a resolution that we have worked together with Deputy Vilalta, the Young Member, so it is good that President Torra maintained the confidence of this Parliament, no one has withdrawn it. We have defended that he was disqualified for a banner, but it is clear that after the Member of Parliament, Arrimadas, was fined for an interview during the day of reflection on 21-D or President Sánchez with a fine of five hundred euros. Why is this happening? So because the institutions of the State there is a persecution against the institutions of Catalonia, against the presidency of the Generality. Is that what I'm saying? No, they say the facts. The last presidents of the Generalitat jutjat, destitute, incapacitated, exiled, engaged, sentenced or executed. That's not what I made up. That's the facts. Therefore, this is the way to proceed from the Spanish State and, therefore, I believe that this is the way we must defend ourselves. We are a national minority and it is a national minority that the courts of justice interpret differently depending on whether you are independent or not. If you're independent, it's based on the interests of the state. If you are independent, you do not have the guarantees, you have the enemy's criminal right, the procedural right, the constitutional right, the administered right, all, the enemy's criminal right, in general. Therefore, this was also defended in this motion for a resolution and we believed that with 155 in effect, not investing President Puigdemont, not defending the acts of Councillor Turull, Rull, Sánchez, President Torra or not publishing resolutions and now we will see the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, if it does not attach the precautionary measures to the disqualification of President Torra, that repression would not stop. And the repression hasn't stopped. The repression has increased, because now it's for a banner. Besides, what are we defending and defending in this motion for a resolution? May the only victories come from Brussels. Who believes in Brussels..., which justifies Brussels that the three last presidents of the Government of Catalonia have been disqualified, ceased or are in exile? The Catalan cause..., does not understand this repression that we are continuously patenting. Besides, they have the cynicism to call elections and then they don't respect the election results. We are also calling on the entities and institutions of this country to denounce this attack on the presidency of the Government of Catalonia internationally. And he thought, and why, this repression? What's the common nucleus, isn't it? What is that, the characteristic, the characteristic trait of this repression? So it's the U of October. Everything you want to see with U d'Octubre they want to suppress, follow the legitimate government, follow a pallasso, which is to take a photograph on the side of the National Police, follow a lady who encouraged to cut a road, all that U d'Octubre is what they want to suppress. And we're exactly what we need to defend more than ever. And that is also in the value of the motion for a resolution. We also say that we do not respect and reject and do not consider the Supreme Court's judgment legitimate, because it is disproportionate, it is irrational. And jurists know a classification that is that of state jurists. And these are the state jurists we have in the high judiciary of the judiciary. The Central Electoral Board, without competition, partial and with members of citizens, are the ones who started this judicial procedure and then diligently, the Supreme Court has done them the work. So we as a parliamentary group understand that this plethora, don't we? He who poses a little manifesto as this legislature has been, we think we should get back together. As the independence forces, the entities, the institutions of this country work in a joint strategy, a strategy that allows us to know why we have the physiognomy of this radiographed repressive state and can establish a strategy to move forward, a strategy to move forward, to simply guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens and that this relentless repression, so it does not happen. For all this, we, this motion for a resolution, which we have obviously worked on, will vote in favour. And we think we need to get together and prepare and get together for Catalonia, and I think that the deputies and deputies of Juntas for Catalonia have this compromise, all of them, to find this joint strategy to move forward. And finally, with regard to the motions for resolutions of the other parliamentary groups, because we do not just have to explain to the citizenry our motions for resolutions, but..., with regard to the UPC, the Popular Unity Candidature, has made a motion for a resolution in which the limitations are manifested. We recognize them. In fact, at the conclusion of the 155th commission we recognize them, but we also want to say without any credence that I believe that we all surely have made mistakes in this legislature, huh? I think we've all made mistakes. We can talk in what degree..., or less, but I think that all the forces have made mistakes in this legislature and, therefore, we voting also want to extend the glove to look for this collaboration, this joint strategy that I think the citizens are asking for, and it was good for us to have this X-ray of what has happened in these days. And I also say, in relation to the CUP's motion for a resolution, that we believe that disqualification, therefore, will now continue its judicial process. He did not whiten himself on the part of the government, therefore, disqualification, because he has neither president nor will replace the president. We're not self-limiting, self-censored, calling for elections. For us, for the Parliamentary Group, it was also important. We had to call elections, because some other elections called and we also have no guarantee that it respects the election results... And, therefore, as we share this objective, with different points of view, we vote in favour of it. And with regard to Deputy Segóvia, I thank her, so, that they are in the House, that we can debate, huh? Let's have a fight. We have your motion for a resolution... I have doubts as to whether you really wanted the motion for a resolution to be voted on by us. We share point 1, that you, therefore, condemn the disqualification of President Torra; we share this judiciary. I said it the other day, when you– and I think in good faith and honestly– want this reform of the Criminal Code, I asked them: and the courts and courts are the same magistrates? Because if they've now charged for a crime of rebellion and they're talking about riots and inventing the Penal Code, and all the limitations always apply them extensively, what guarantees do we have with any modification of the Penal Code, if we don't change the oak, right? , the focus of the problem, which is this high judiciary. And I also like to differentiate between the high judiciary and the one that isn't. So here we have points of finding but we have an important point of disagreement, and that is why I have doubts as to whether you really want us to vote in favour when you speak of 'intelligent confrontation' and that is not the way. Look, the intelligent confrontation, as we understand it, is what President Puigdemont brought when the JEC violated political freedom, isn't it? , of the Spanish Constitution, and President Puigdemont and the rest of the MEPs, and unfortunately they did not complete with the judgment of the EUJ, they arrived at MEPs..., so this was an intelligent confrontation – this is an intelligent confrontation. And you, who are feminists like us, so... smart confrontation is Rosa Parks, it's Ruth, it's Clara Campoamor, it's Pepa Colomer. And, therefore, we have this vision that you have of the intelligent confrontation, that we certainly need to speak much more..., we..., that makes it impossible for us to approve and vote in favour of its motion for a resolution. Nevertheless, I have told you that we have the proposal that you have put to us. And surely, when you posed in doubt this intelligent confrontation, I think I don't know if you expressly wanted us not to vote for them. Therefore, we defend the institutions in a context of enormous difficulty. Also recognize – and do so in the resolution proposal – the government's pocket, which is working and we are at a time of pandemic, eh? , where there are projects of escaped life; where there are very many people to the residences, to the hospitals, to companies that do not know if the two owns – or three – months will be able to close, and therefore they have all our support during these months, until they produce the elections, we will work on the side of the Government of Catalonia. And try to improve the citizen's day-to-day. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.32.0	And finally, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.33.0	Hey, good night. Thank you, President. Good night, MPs and MPs. I would also like to start by reflecting on the hours that we are doing this Ple and I already did it at the Spokesman's Meeting, and I think that we need to make an explicit recognizance of the communication media companies that are waiting here at the exit and that we often feel that politicians are talking a lot about conciliation but that we are doing a lot in practice. So, I think they really deserve this recognition. And yes, we have been here because we believe that the disqualification of a president of the Catalan Government in action is absolutely a reason for debate and parliamentary discussion. And we think our place needs to be here, and we don't understand why there are Members and Members who have decided not to occupy this seat today, because we believe that this is exactly what they are doing to put the right of representation of their own voters at risk as well. We have been here because we want to debate, because we want to say what we think of their motions for resolutions, their speeches. And they will also allow me a small incis, but we also want to record our own, to say it in a way, surprise for the last corrections, you enter at the last hour for the self-corrections of the CUP resolution proposal, right? , and the contrast between the speeches and then the self-corrections that are making to a motion for a resolution, which say that it does not change the feeling, but, when we hear it, it does change the feeling. But it obviously forms part of the autonomy of the groups, and more so. We find ourselves in this plenary session as the answer to President Torra's disqualification as President of the Government of Catalonia to say what we have said many times before, and we will say it again. And we'll be here every time I want to say it. We believe that the feeling is disproportionate and is a misrepresentation. And we have said it many times, too: we believe that this legislature should have been over months ago, but it should have been over because the President of the Generality has called off... or else, he has called an election in the exercise of his powers. And it's been a long time since we've been told. We are now here to discuss an episode more of the judicialization of politics that has characterized the response of the People's Party and Ciutadans to the Catalan political conflict. Faced with the inability to give a political answer, therefore, judicializes that something will remain; an episode that also demonstrates the politicization of justice. I will go further, but we clearly have a democratic alert situation for politics and the non-renewal of the highest bodies of the judiciary, which we have more than watered down many years ago, and we believe that today's absolution of Bankia officials is no more proof. But yes, we consider that we are also here to talk about an episode more than we consider to be a permanent and sterile confrontation of President Torra – "not intelligent", but I have put it between comets; we do not consider it intelligent and it is our point of view, and that is why we have put it there. For us there has been a permanent and sterile confrontation that has characterized the entire mandate; even in the pandemic era, and even on health alert, there has been an option of permanent confrontation, as opposed to the central government. We don't share this strategy. And that's why we've said many times that we believe this government hasn't been up, and it's still not. We believe that what we are looking for, and today we have seen it again, is a lot of this empty epic, or so on, is to go back to the epic, back to saying great things, back to saying great thoughts, but after the hour of truth it is a little concrete, a few things that we can share as a country model and as public policies to do in this country a little bit more under the big words and the great epic, right? They somehow have a calling to block and confront the two blocks that we often find in this Parliament, don't they? , both of them, because somehow I assume that the calculation is that this gives, therefore, an electoral recipe and that it is worth continuing to deal with this confrontation and this blockade. And we understand that you see this insistence on the part of government groups to see that all governments are the same, that the current government is doing exactly the same as Mr. Rajoy's government did. We obviously don't agree, and we don't think that, because they repeat it one time and another, and one time and another, that's true. It's absurd, and it's absolutely unreal. And we don't think anyone believes them, if it isn't that they are their unconditional sympathizers and activists, that they might share it, because once more it's a strategy that doesn't add up; not to mention, there's no way to be more, much so they're more. So there's no way to be more, because it doesn't add up. The blockade is something that is leading to the politicization of justice, the blockade of the renewal of its organs, which even deserved a blow from the European Union, that European Union to which you call, which has also made a blow in this sense to the situation of Spain. We believe, and we have said it many times, that it is a democratic warning: to this instrumentalization of the judiciary by the People's Party, which, moreover, places itself at the service of the interests of some, normally of their own, and against the majority, there must be no more. And from here an inquiry that we all have to work, in all the spaces in which we are, to put this politics of justice, that yes, effectively we can hardly talk about that there is a democratic situation with all the guarantees in Spain as we continue to have this judiciary. And in this they will find us, we will work on rapeseed, and, moreover, I believe that we are demonstrating it with the work that has been done since our group in the Congress, and since, in concrete terms, our spokesman, Jaume Asens. But to pretend that the State is all one, that it is all the same, that it is an indestriable thing, that it is all swept away and that it is an abstract in which we address ourselves as if it were one thing, we believe that this is irresponsible. We also think that saying that they already say that all central governments are just the same because they are a central government, so we also believe that it is irresponsible. Or follow, say, as we have heard today and other times, that it has the same responsibility and that the same answer has been given by the Government of Mariano Rajoy for eight years that the Government..., the response that is now giving itself to the Catalan conflict since the Government of United We, Socialist Party and In Comú Pode, can, no. [[Widow's remorse.]] So I'm sorry; as much as Mr. Batet insisted on it, no, that's not what anyone believes. It may be - it may be - that Mr Batet and some other Members of this House are pleased that the answer given from there is the same as the answer given by the People's Party Government, may be that they are pleased with the answer given from there. [[remorse of the voice]] , because for confrontation it is much better to hold ahead – yes, yes – the People's Party, Citizens or Vox, and then they can continue with this battle. But if it's bad luck, Catalonia doesn't deserve this and Spain doesn't deserve it either. And you used the attack in Spain to defend Catalonia. And that's sad and it's unfair, because nationalism tends to that, to homogenize, right? : Spanish, ill; Catalonia, bona. So no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And it seems to me very sad to use this strategy of confrontation and stigmatization to defend Catalonia's interests. Defender Catalunya does not pass to attack Espanya. Finally, we have already said that this blocking situation has been very difficult throughout this legislature, and that it is even harder with the situation in which we are. That's why we insisted on elections, and that's why we consider that a four-month government in office, interested, until there are some possible elections, the longer it becomes a government, so it's a luxury that Catalonia can't afford. And that's what we've told you many times. And that's why we insisted a lot on the need for the president to call the elections when he could still do it. That didn't happen. Now we're where we are. What we ask..., and from here we want to address the president of the chamber because so soon..., activate all the mechanisms necessary to advance, when before better, the celebration of these elections, because it is what Catalonia needs to face the emergency, because while here we are with an interested government that cannot even approve a project of assumptions, so Save the Children tells us that we will end the year with a poor child affecting one or two children, and that is what we cannot afford. No more internations, no more blockades, no more not moving forward. I think that's what he needs and he's asking for our country. We believe that it has been a practically failed legislature, a lost legislature, except for some exceptions, but we also believe that it has been the last two years that have been lost in many causes, in social, economic and ecological causes. The main strands that have been achieved in these past years have been worthy of organization and social movements, such as guaranteed income or the regulation of loguers that this Parliament recently approved. And it is worthy of these organizations, of this movement on the road that Parliament has taken giant steps to secure the rights of the citizenry. It's not a party, and it's not a government. So that's what we need is a strong government that can pull the majorities needed to cope with this necessary reconstruction. And I'm done. We have also said this, we believe that we have finished the legislature of the worst possible way, so that, yes, we want to take advantage of the criticism that we are constantly making and from the position of question that this government has made, that among all – all – those who are today, but also we would be pleased with those who are not, we can work together because this is the last act of the dynamic of blocking and judicializing politics, which has completely shown its uselessness and injustice, because it has not been used to advance the whole place, to advance the place. Catalonia deserves a better future, a better future and a compromise with the armor of rights, which protects our Government, which votes for an agreement with a broad and plural support of Catalans and Catalans; a future in which we all build bridges there where there have been trenches. And we also want to take advantage of the thousands of people who have struggled to keep it, with all its limitations, with the needs to grow, to transform, to modify, to rethink, to adapt to the current situation. But it seems to us dangerous, it seems to us a lack of respect to make now a criticism, a challenge to the totality, to the process of self-government that has touched this land, precisely because of the lack of respect that it supposes for the thousands of people who have worked and who have struggled because the Catalan institutions follow the institutions of self-government of Catalonia. Beyond who held the presidency, we will always claim the self-government of Catalonia, its institutions and the need to strengthen them. We believe that citizenship has a right to decide what it should be like. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] This new country, the new post-Covid country, a more egalitarian country, more just, more solidarity, feminist, more environmentalist; a country that you don't bet for the Hard Rock Cafe and don't have a government that says they're going to save it despite saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.34.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.35.0	...that it's a risk to public salvation. We believe that Catalonia needs a better future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.36.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.37.0	Please, let's have it all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-30-6201.38.0	After the debate, let us proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. [[Long break.]] Let's get to the vote. We vote in the first place on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. Before voting, however, the adventurous fact that today they have delegated their vote seventy-six deputies and deputies; twenty deputies and deputies have joined the telematic vote, and twenty-one will vote face-to-face. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 8, with no abstentions. We now vote on the joint motion for a resolution for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And we finally vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. It was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote. The session's up. Thank you.
