ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.1.0	Good morning. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the defence of institutions and self-government]] [[302-00239/12]] Let us resume the session with the twenty-third of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the defence of institutions and self-government, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia. To expose it, has the word the deputy Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.2.0	President of the Parliament or Vice-President of the Parliament, members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament – today very few. Today the King of the Three October, the authentic leader of the Spanish right, visits Barcelona. This visit here, to the Station of France, to play from this Parliament, this visit with colonial areas coincides with this ple: so close and so far. The king of the Three of October has only two works to do: one, asking for forgiveness of Catalonia. Two, ask for the release. It can be ordered. U, the monarchy has to excuse itself for having emboldened those who beat us, and two, one day on the evening, later on, like the Three of October, is on TV and is said: "Sirs and gentlemen, soc Felipe VI, game over, so far, this is over. Please, prepare me the finish, prepare me the take. Years of work, days of vacation that remain pending, agree the end and end point, the monarchy does not give for more: quit, "end and end point. In any case, and linked to this forgiveness, today we ask you to vote in favour of a motion that defends democracy, that defends the institutions of Catalonia and that demands the end point of repression, driving amnesty for those who suffer it. Who can be against you? Who can be against it? None. For the Democrats, this young man is very easy, he's essential, he's basic. It's like asking a physicist to say the Earth is round. "Physical sir, say that the Earth is round. The Earth is round. You are secure in this Parliament and you have arrived, if I am not mistaken, with the approval of the ballot box, and that is why, surely, you will recognize the value of the votes. I'm sure they defend the power of the ballot box at the time of resolving conflicts of political nature. I'm sure they think the election results will always be respected, which certainly 21-D didn't happen, and I certainly look at the commons – and now they are – which Mayor Ada Colau and the commons are beginning to discover just now. Of course they don't respect them, the results. Where were you? We lived? They do not respect Paul Churches nor will they respect him. They will not respect him or respect him, as neither President Puigdemont nor Jordi Sànchez nor Jordi Turull nor Josep Rull nor President Torra have respected. He's sitting here, President Torra? Here, in the front row? Hey, you see him? It's just that he's not there, and he's not coming. Don't let him come, he's gone. It's not there. Of course they don't respect the votes and of course it's not new. Of course, it's all too much. It's a shame. Do you see anything in the head? He's gone repressed. Let's see if it's clear what they're going to do. Don't be more wrong or always wrong, please. I told them the Earth is round, the scientist would say. The same way that if you are Members of this Parliament of Catalonia, I'm sure you defend sovereignty, the whole sovereignty of this institution, and you can talk about everything. And why, if not, what are we doing here? What do we do? It's very easy. Denying or widening conflicts has no meaning. Conflicts are accepted, they are spoken and resolved, why, if not, what are we doing here? Catalunya-Espanya, a problem. Yeah, a problem i gross. The solution? Democracy. We're not asking for the moon in a pit. We are asking you to vote in favour of respecting the paragraph, the Parliament, the Government and the President of Catalonia. And if I'm allowed a half-faster, football is played with the little ones, right? Handball's playing with your hand. Tennis, with a racket. That's it. We'll get there. And democracy is defence with votes, respect, attitudes and values. This young man is the prime minister of a society that wants to live in freedom and with the vote as a guarantee of change, whether they are citizens or when they are citizens tomorrow, they decide to change. Today, Spain is a state addicted to repression, they know about envelopes. And if not, think of the Tamara Carrasco: they absolved him, but before they subdued him to a rescue of a year and a half. They tricked her in the knowledge that she had done nothing. Three years ago, the State silenced this Parliament, and parliaments are not silent, the same way that books are not cream, the same way that football has been played with little and not with hands, that the Earth is round and that Catalonia is not an invention. Catalonia is not a favour of the Transition. Catalonia is a political subject. We are a nation that goes from the far and that will get there where democraticly you decide to go. Democracy is a positive idea. It's a way of living, it's plurality, it's concord, it's civilization. Catalonia, after '1 October 2017, do not think so, will not return to 78. We've had enough of Catalonia. We no longer have enough, we are no longer satisfied with two soft democracy and a little freedom. Freedom is not a video game purchased from the Fnac. Freedom is not a free Netflix_me. Ladies and gentlemen, let's save the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Marta Vilalta of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.4.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, deputies and deputies, councillor. Today, which is 9 October, the Day of the Valencian Country, is a good day to send a message to the companies of the Valencian Country, a fraternal message and the happiness of its day and remember that we are and are Catalan Countries. Today is also a good day to remember that Catalans and Catalans have no king. Go ahead with our support for the motion now presented by the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Eduard Pujol, and we appreciate the opportunity given to us by this motion to reiterate what seems to us to be the case, which is the defence of the Catalan institutions, the defence of democracy in itself and the denunciation of the interference of the powers of the State and, therefore, also the complaint of repression and the continued persecution of the independence movement and political representatives representing independence. Therefore, we are ahead of this general cause and, precisely, we have the opportunity to denounce once again that precisely what we are suffering is repression and what we need are political solutions and democratic solutions. A thought. The institutions are in the service of the citizenry, in the service of the people, in the service of everyone, not of those who occupy them. Why am I saying that? Because precisely this is the reason why we have always been so insistent on defending the Catalan institutions, the institutions of our country. We defended, for example, the government after 155, from that time of state, from that interference of the Government of the Spanish State usurping Catalan institutions. We have always wanted to preserve this chamber and that it can be useful for this chamber to be able to do the functions assigned to it. I thought the institutions were in the service of the citizenry, in the service of the people. That is why, when they disable President Torra – this fact so hard that we have lived all just a week ago – what they affect, whoever they harm, is citizenship and democracy itself. Letting go of the head of government, and more in a context of pandemic, is to affect, is to harm the citizenry of that country, the citizenry in this case of Catalonia. Because what is being done is threatening and reducing the tools that serve you, precisely, to give response to people's needs. And precisely the will and vocation of public service, and also of representation, but above all of public service to the citizenry and of being useful to the people, is what leads us to the conviction that with independence alone they are able to guarantee this country just and free, with equal opportunity and with guarantee of rights and freedoms for everyone. The motion recalls that the institutions of the Generality, the Parliament of Catalonia, the Government and the Presidency of the Generality are not the fruit of the Spanish Constitution, and this is very good to remember because it is sometimes confused and seems that it is all part of the Spanish Sacred Constitution, and it goes very far along this path. They have a long history, since the 11th century pau and treva assemblies, already prelude to parliamentarianism, these forty years that we celebrate inguany are only the last part of these last years of the history of the Parliament of Catalonia or the Deputy General, the origin of the Generality. For this reason, among others, President Torra is the one hundred and thirty-one President of the Generality and not the Six. Through a statement that we have presented by the Republican Group, from the Republican Left, we wanted to highlight a fact so hard that a president of this Parliament, the Carme Forcadell, is condemned and is in prison to allow the free debate, to allow what we are doing today in Parliament, to be able to debate, to oppose ideas and then vote and, therefore, to be able to talk about everything. It adds the repression to President Forcadell, to the continued repression, also, against the presidents of the Generalitat, the three presidents of the last Generalitat, President Mas, President Puigdemont and President Torra. Also, through an approach that we have had the opportunity to negotiate, we want to denounce this operation to criminalize not only the representatives of the independence movement at the political level, but also to frighten all the movement and all the people who are part of the independence movement. It's the case of Tamara Carrasco, this is no scandalous example. To denounce this injustice again, to claim the absolution it had, but to find that this was persecution and that it was revenge for the will to frighten us. We also show solidarity with all the persecuted people, which leads us to the conclusion that only through amnesty can we find the solution to this general cause which, through repression, through political persecution using all the devices of the State, is trying to silence this movement. Only after amnesty are we able to conclude with this general cause, and that is why we will not tire of claiming it until it is real. And, finally, to highlight also the last point that has been accepted – we are grateful to Deputy Pujol – that it is that the institutions in question, today in an autonomous framework, are not a burden on others, but that they are, precisely, as he said before, some tools for the service of the people and, therefore, we are convinced that their existence, that the existence of the institutions in question, after so much history, is the strength to build the full sovereignty that we want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to launch from this Parliament, which represents the autonomy of the citizens of Catalonia, the autonomy that is not sovereignty, which sometimes you – separatist gentlemen – like to confuse constitutional terminology. This is the seat of Catalonia's autonomy and autonomy is a very important thing that, by the way, you have done all you can to despise, to despise and to degrade in recent years. For from this headquarters I want to send a message to His Majesty the King, a message of support, a message of gratitude, a message of appreciation for his work at the head of the Head of State. And what I want, precisely, is for it to be clear that, indeed, the Catalans do have a king, that we are many more Catalans that we defend, that we support, that we appreciate his speech of 3 October, because that speech gave us peace of mind to those who intended to take away our rights, to those who intended to take away our nationality. And I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to defend our democracy, to defend our institutional framework and to defend, in the end, freedom and equality between citizens, to defend today the presence of the King of Spain in Barcelona. [[Greetings.]] Otherwise, Mr Pujol, you have made an intervention that I do not deny you have a certain grace, because you are funny, it is fun in the use of metaphors, but you have said that one thing that is elementary is that ‘football is played with feet. And I buy it for you, actually. What happens is that if a player freaks out and gives him the ball with his hands and takes him running, and pulls the ball out of the field and says that the judge is not worth it and that the rules of the game pass them through the Arc de Triomphe, that's what makes football disappear, that's what makes the rules of the game have been violated and that, therefore, there can no longer be a match. And that is what you have done with the separatist process, you have said in the middle of the game that the rules of the game were loaded, that you did not like the referee, and you have begun to try to degrade all the architecture on which the democratic game stands – following its simile – the sports game, in this case. Finally, you come here to tell us that you come to defend the institutions. On the contrary, you degrade the institutions. They come here to tell us to defend democracy. What you are defending in this motion for a resolution is despotism, not democracy. In which country has it been seen, in which democratic country of the world has it been seen that the legislative or executive power is not subject to the rule of law, is it not subject to the rule of law? In what country has it been seen that rulers should be allowed to do and to do away with their will, without having the slightest limit of the judiciary? Listen, no, democracy, and liberal democracy, from the theorists of liberalism, going back a long way – Hobbes, Locke, Montesquieu, but above all Tocqueville – we are told that when democracy is perverted and the executive power is supposed to be able to do what it really wants, that is despotism. That's not democracy, and that's what you've been trying to do, is what you were doing with that little piece of the Law of Legal Transition, in which you said that Puigdemont, someone so committed to those values of the rule of law, from respect for the rule of law, to democracy – I mean with all the irony, of course – someone as committed as he was going to be to designate the dome of the judiciary of that so-called democratic Arcadia that you wanted to convert. No, honestly, you don't come here to defend democracy, you come to defend despotism. And I think this is important to remember, because in your motion for a resolution they talk about things like the separation of powers. Hey, don't take the citizens of Catalonia for fools, and I tell you from respect, Mr Pujol. The citizens of Catalonia have the capacity to understand that in a democracy there must be separation of powers – of course – and control between powers. What cannot be achieved is an all-embracing power of the executive power to do whatever it pleases, which gives it the real will and takes no account of respect for minorities, respect for fundamental rights, and individual rights. And, in this regard, I would like to make a reflection that I think they are also interested to know. You have been living in this Parliament for weeks to tell us that « we will seek justice in Europe. Listen, you can already look, and also remove Rome with Santiago, because for the moment every time European justice..., the last one yesterday, the Court of Justice of the European Union has told Mr Junqueras that he did not have the right to hold a seat in the European Parliament. He's made it very clear to you. Every time a court, either of the European Union – the Court of Justice of the European Union – or of the Council of Europe, for example with the European Court of Human Rights, decides on what you..., the misconceptions, the outrages at the freedoms you have carried out from this Parliament of Catalonia are seen by European courts, you take your hands to the head and tell us, for example, what the European Court of Human Rights said about the day Puigdemont wanted to declare here the independence of Catalonia, which fortunately that session was annulled by the Constitutional Court. What the European Court of Human Rights said was that the annulment by the Constitutional Court was an imperative social need to safeguard democracy and constitutional order. Thank you, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Congressman Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.8.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies the deputies. I have news for you, Mr. Pujol: the Earth is not round, the Earth is spheroidal. A flattened sphere for the wrists. I said to illustrate the importance of mattes. The nuances are enormously corrosive for those political projects that claim to keep the people under constant propaganda war, for the projects that claim to keep the people under trenches. And the nuances are something that, obviously, in the speeches that we feel to you, or to many spokespersons of your group, or in the motions for resolutions that they present to us, are absolutely absent, as in the statement that the Earth is round. And as long as we're talking..., miri, he was bringing an article here, it's been a long time since Raimon Obiols was mentioned in this hemisphere, I'm going to do it, he was bringing here a recent article from Raimon Obiols that spoke of a time after the trenches of 14-18. He was talking about an author, at that time, in the first city of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, after Austria, Robert Musil, who had been in the trenches of the 18th and had participated in a certain patriotic inflammation that invaded the Austro-Hungarian Empire after the assassination of the Arxiduc. He said Obiols that Musil had felt, he wrote, "Immersed in the nation as in a living entity: "It was as if some old sleeping mystical forces during centuries had awakened suddenly from one day to another, as real as the factories and offices that operate every morning. According to Obiols, "thinking about this, Musil came to the conclusion that the notions of state, birth and race were the mystical fetishes of his time, some conceptions that generated a vivid faith like a political religion. "Ideal concepts, sacred as absolute. Musil considered that replacement faith to be harmful for two reasons. In the first place, because it provided a mobilizing narrative that was extremely easy to manipulate. Secondly, because he tended to assume personal responsibilities in idealized abstractions, so that his cause was sacred – Obiols follows – the nation became the moral alibi for all barabassades. And in the same way, because the State was sacred, worshipping it would exonerate the abuses eaten in its name and force to execrate the traitors who liked to question them. They do not see institutions as a perfectable reality, which would require from each school a work of criticism and demystification, but as a whole that requires submission and discipline. Well, in the debate we had in the last two years, and especially as of late 2017, there are clearly these two trends. Or, if you want, the same tendency, pronounced, defended, in the name of one nation or another, or of a state that already exists, or of one that wants to be born, but precisely the same pulse: mitify, build a myth as much on the other as on the same. One, obviously, endowed with all the virtues, at least in power, and the other, with all the defects and, moreover, irreformable. You put it on the side you want, but this presides over our public debate today. And it seems to me absolutely horrific, because I look at the Spanish State, the state that emerged from the 1978 Constitution, has flaws, had them long before there was this independence process in Catalonia. And it's hard. I'd say with all the homologable democracy around us. You will say that no, you will say that it is much worse because you have already gone to the stage of absolute exaggeration, even before the surprise of the European states, that every time you make statements of this kind you look at each other face to face with unbelief. But, look, they have all the right to do these reviews, I'd just miss it. Now, it seems to me... to us, it seems like they're horrific and it seems to us that they're girls with a remarkable dose of hypocrisy and cynicism. Why, look, do you know what happens when a political move with perfectly legitimate objectives is set in a light bearer's hand, the word and the truth? That, in the name of this political project, in the name of this birth, you can commit major barbassades. And on the 6th and 7th of September and after the 10th and 27th of October of 2017, when they didn't even have enough to achieve the goal they were pursuing, they already taught the tip of the ears, they already designed a political project of a state designed to minority the social sectors of their fellow citizens who disagreed with this secessionist project. And keep doing it. Keep doing it. You assign the discordant as the traitor, as the botifler, as the non-democrat. Keep doing it. And, therefore, you were able to improve the quality of institutions here and there, here and here; you were able to make deep criticisms of the structural misconceptions that there may be, at the errors of functioning, you also recognize that you are heresies of a political movement that has patrimonized the idea of a country, patrimonized the institutions and entrusted them with the interests of the party. And the most recent example is the later modification of the government that made the already expressed Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. A little incis. Precisely because the Government of Catalonia is a republican institution restored during the Transition is not a medieval institution. It is obvious that there are continuitys between our medieval history and our modern history, as it is that Berenguer de Cruïlles or Jaume I d'Empúries are not presidents of the Generality, at least as we understand them today, and that medieval institutions and modern democratic institutions are not the same. If all states count presidents like this, they'll all have a bad time. I don't think there are any presidents of the government of the Middle Ages, nor does the Spanish State consider Isabel the Catholic to have been president of the Spanish State. I mean... I'm saying this because it's a little contradictory to what you say in an exhibition of words, that I think it's more of a New History Institute's own than a democratic parliament, where basically the first sentence already equates the Spanish monarchic tradition from absolutism and from the Middle Ages to our days with the republican tradition. And I believe that this, apart from an obvious historical fallacy, is a contradiction when the first point of the motion for a resolution that you present is to recognize precisely the continuity between the Republican Generality hidden in the Second Republic and the Catalan institutions. But, besides, it's a paradox. If they really believe that it is the same Spanish republican tradition that the monarchist, fascist and absolutist tradition, why don't they admit that Mr. Carles Puigdemont is going to the tomb of Machado to return his homage? Why don't you blame him for going to the grave of a Spanish fetishist like Antonio Machado for bringing him back? I think these motivating and rhetorical exhibits you're using, the only objective you have is to fit history and our news into your election proposal. First, to erode their esteemed, esteemed, members of the government, say them: « Ep, lords of the Republican Left, reaching agreement with the government of the PSOE and the United Nations We may be the same as reaching agreement with Isabel the Catholic or with a government of the People's Party and Vox. And then, on the other hand, to subject them to their electoral strategy: there is no legitimate government and there is no legitimate majority if we do not continue to be part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. So, what do they want me to tell them? But I think there has been more continuity between the vision and the idea of civil and political rights of Felipe Puig and Miquel Buch than between my and Santiago Abascal's. I believe that there has been more continuity between your vision of the economy, of the management of public services, of institutional regeneration and of the same conception of civil and political rights between the old Convergence and you than between me and the People's Party. There were six or seven refoundations, which I've already lost count. And there has been more continuity between the privatisation of Covid's screening at Ferrovial – a company that will illegally finance the Democratic Convergence – than between our visit to public health and the People's Party. But I suppose the refoundations of Convergence are like that of Eurovegas: there is more continuity between Eurovegas and Hard Rock Cafe, there is the same continuity between Eurovegas and Hard Rock Cafe than there is between Democratic Convergence and you. And I think the problem is that the state, no state or this one, is a cartoon as simple as its election bet. It is obvious that there has been an operation in Catalonia, it is obvious that there are citizens of this country and public bodies of this country who have not suffered the consequences, between Tamara Carrasco and Adri, who follow in exile, and who have had to suffer the assumption that the defendant for terrorism, that he has confined a year and a half to the end to be absolved to the end of public disorder. It's obvious that this is a heavyweight. As it is obvious that there has been a PISA report, as it is obvious that an operation Kitchen and as it is obvious that there have been matches that have used the institutions of the State to wage gross war against all its political rivals. For this very reason it is obvious that there is no continuity that you say that there is and that not all are themselves. And it's obvious. In your very exhibition of motius it is obvious, precisely because there is a part of the repression that is shared. Obviously, it's not the same PP and Vox as we are. And the discussion is more complex, but in the end the challenge is the same. It is to stop the involvement opened in 2008 in economics, civil and political rights, institutional regeneration and dialogue. But also in the matter of Catalanism. Catalanism is not a point of arrival where people are expressed Catalan and vote for you. Catalanism is a finding point between the 7_million_i_mig of people in Catalonia to defend a democratic project, to defend their institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.11.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.12.0	...and to defend the country's progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.14.0	Thank you, President. Well, lords and lords of Ciutadans, you have spoken of despotism. Today in Barcelona we have the main post of the Spanish State, King Philip VI, occupying a city. Certainly, Mr. Pedret, here who makes trenches, who has converted Barcelona into his particular trench, are Mr. Felipe VI and Mr. Pedro Sánchez, restricting and limiting civil and political rights to all the citizenship that today will be affected by the "xiringuite of the monarchy and the president of the Spanish Government. It's not confounding. It's not confounding respect for who's the cane and who makes trenches. Mr. Pujol, we will give support to your young lady, most of whom are at least at your young lady's fingertips. But I have to say one thing: you have a contradiction, you have a problem. It is a complaint of the repression of the Spanish State – quite rightly, and we share it – but, look, you in your management of autonomy sometimes remember the repression system of the Spanish State. Miri, more than fifty people in the independence movement who are at this time being prosecuted on a particular charge of the Generality. Miri, Mr. Pujol, you can't be at Mass and reticent. Obviously, we have a shared anti-repressive strategy, it is a fundamental issue in an independent and republican movement, but because this anti-repressive strategy can be truly shared as the Generality that you govern renounced the repressive function that you are exercising at these times. And look, Mr Pedret, I also remember: the dissenters in this country are in prison or exile; or almost three thousand, accused of their participation in protests and social dissent. And obviously, the only solution against repression is amnesty and independence, exercising the right to self-determination. And in this sense we say to Mr. Pedro Sánchez: "Dialeg? And so, but the dialog is only possible when there is a democratic and serious will to resolve a conflict, which is not the case today of the Spanish Government. Because this is so, that Mr. Pedro Sánchez recognizes us as being born, as politically subject, with right self-determination, that he has a democratic instrument to exercise self-determination – obviously a reference – and that it has been repressed. On these grounds, you can't talk. As long as these bases don't exist today, we have to keep mobilising. We have a new cycle of mobilization, as many and many of us will be protagonists of the streets against the presence of the king. And obviously the one that also calls us, more than mobilization...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.15.0	You're out of here, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.16.0	...is an institutional alliance to overthrow the monarchy. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts for Catalonia, Left and the commons, we invite you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.17.0	I'm done. Ahabi, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.18.0	...to participate in it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.19.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Riera. In Darrer terme, has the word deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.20.0	Yes, thank you very much. Well, as with each plenary, you get over it in a certain delirious way in the content of your motions, but we have the responsibility to answer and, finally, to put at the top of the table incoherences and falsified round, palm trees. First, the Constitutional Pact has never, ever in life, translated the idea that the Generalitat de Catalunya was created by the Spanish Constitution; never. What you're saying is that she's recovered. So much so that you seem to like the story, the story invented, but it's the story, and the story has to be recovered when it touches... it's that it's recovered before the ratification of the Spanish Constitution. It is that, moreover, the basic raison d'être for which they were incorporated as constitutional constituents Sole Tura and Miquel Roca, who had already shown that they represented left and conservative nationalism, that they had clearly been majority in the general elections of 77..., this is the proof: it is recovered, it is part of the Catalan political class and it is ratified in a referendum in which, certainly, Catalonia is the autonomous community that gives more support to the Constitution. And not exactly what you say about the "noise of sands," no; with an atmosphere that, for obvious reasons, made decades that had not lived in Catalonia. Therefore, first and round falsehood. Second question. You say you don't want to be under Spanish justice. No, it's been well explained before. You don't want to be submissive to justice. It was the one given in Article 67 of the Law of Transition, which converted Mr Puigdemont into the highest authority of the judiciary, something that is neither Vladimir Putin to Russia; nor Vladimir Putin. So, you, it's not that they don't want to be under the law, it's that they want impunity. And as you're used to saying in these cases, so it's going to be no. They'll never get over the law. They'll get away with it. That's never gonna happen. Third question. With the ratification of the Constitution, the Catalans of that generation – some were born a year before, some a little later; there is, therefore, a generation that many are no longer with us –..., the quota was voted, the quota was ratified and the reform system was also ratified. And the current generation, which we did not vote for that Constitution, do owe a respect to the generation that did give it support, because we also have to be able to respect previous generations of Catalans. That they weren't Catalans, too? and they're going to ratify the reform system. The German Constitution is from the year 49. There are, therefore, few people alive who participated in his writing and in his impulse. Cap Germany sensible – there are also no Brètols like here – I would think that you do not have to respect the reform system of the German Constitution, because you have to respect a system that your predecessors approve, that they deserve to respect. I, finally, point four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.21.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.22.0	Yeah. Who puts Catalan institutions at risk is who puts them at the margin of the law. Remember the Pla Ibarretxe. The Pla Ibarretxe was presented legally. It was a sovereignist plan, but no one went to prison or intervened in autonomy, because they did it legally, and consequently democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.23.0	Come on, thanks, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a twist, again, the deputy Mr Eduard Pujol. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.24.0	Mr President, very quickly, thank you to the Republican Group for the ease with which we were able to speak and consent. Thank you also for the vote announced by Mr Riera. About Mr. Pedret, I thank him in the morning and you prove that he is a very illustrious person. I appreciate it. But there is one thing as valuable in politics as being illustrated, the common sense, and what I see is that it is cynical to accept votes to be safe here and not to accept votes to change society when there is a demand for change from an important part of the country. The great morning that we would have to incorporate into this ple – the morning that we would have to incorporate into this ple – is politics that want to do politics: not just speeches, do politics. And in this we give them our hands, follow each other and discuss how we can talk, how we can ask the people of this country what future they want. About Catalonia, escort, Catalonia is not our heritage, I assure you, it is not our heritage; what happens is that you sometimes give us the defense of Catalonia to which we sit in this band of Parliament, because you are unable to say that there is a fiscal deficit; you are unable to speak of the prison, of the exile; you are unable to recognize a reality that affects thousands and thousands of citizens of that country. And about the commons, which you have a lot of merit, which you have a lot of merit and I recognize it, is that you are able to respond by talking about Felipe Puig and Eurovegas and that you do not say a single word of "President Torra in his intervention, so I am really surprised by someone who is committed to defending the rights and freedoms of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.26.0	[[The speaker starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...to my group, even though I hadn't presented any.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.27.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.28.0	Mr. Pujol, I was in your conception of democracy and the common sense that you told me cynically because with the votes voted by the Socialist Party of Catalonia I am not dedicated to promoting your political project. This is his idea of democracy and common sense. It was perfectly illustrated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.29.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector]] [[302-00241/12]] After this young man's debate, we move to the next item on the order of the day, the twenty-and-four, which correspond to the next question to the government about the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector. Moció presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, to defend it has the word of the deputy Ms Concepción Abellán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.30.0	Good morning, President. MPs and MPs, between the inquiry and this young man, have passed things that affect the world of culture and questions that, from their responsibility, have stood in the way, such as the lifting of measures so that the night salts can open. 90_percent of these locals are those who offer live music. We saw that these measures could not be lifted. Partly we understand that from a health point and partly we regret that we cannot see live music with health security measures. The live music sector is very important and needs to find the solution because it reacts to this activity. The second is that the Executive Council of this week has decided to extend and extend some aids for the sector: extension of the call for cancellation of shows; extension of the call for doubling and subtitles of films, festivals and cinema shows; call to cover the expenses of popular cultural activities that end at the end of the halls and cultural centres; grants to advertise the activity to different cultural sectors; Asacc, Adetca Peccat and the group of cinema exhibitors of Catalonia. Measures that seem insufficient to us, but a good first step to continue working. Why, where is a new extension of support to cultural professionals for sub-administrations? After the back door of the opening of the night oci premises, the sector continues to stand still. I don't think I need to go back to explaining the problems of the sector: intermitency and precariousness. In this sense, the said, yesterday, we held a meeting with a collection of cultural workers, who, once more, brought their requests to us. So much for giving out to collectius that in the end, what they want is to work to win the pa? Frankly, this crisis has seized us with the little change and has manifested what we have already told the Councillor to the inquiry: more precariousness and more precariousness. Young people without access to cultural training due to lack of resources and help; poor practice in contracts; problems in theatres, working for lockers and not for function. But this young man intends to pose, from our modest position, you have points to try to cope with this situation and improve the material conditions of the people. The cultural sector is creativity, engineering, awareness and dissemination. And, besides, they are people, families, lodgers or mortgages that have to be paid at the end of the month, pay bills and fill the fridge. Therefore, in this case we are asking for the creation of a table with the sectors involved with the aim of securing a national agreement to rescue culture. And it is urgent to review the current contracts in the performing arts sector, eliminating the precariousness of labour relations where public capital is involved. It is quite scandalous double standards in this sense, because while we make great speeches and condemn precariousness, then we charge acts for the government's proceedings and we don't ask ourselves under what conditions the new or the new who provides us with the knowledge for what we all feel. To guarantee the special contract of artists to the professionals of culture who carry out technical or non-creative tasks, deserve worthy conditions; to make a formal recommendation to all the private enterprises of the sector so that it is guaranteed in a decent working conditions and that it is required to pay subsidies; to articulate direct aids for musicians, artists, workers of culture in collaboration between councils of Culture and Treball; to establish a line of aids for companies and professionals dedicated to the dissemination of history, of the patrimony that work with schools, that realize workshops, visits to museums, to deposits. We cannot let go of the popular and traditional culture that so much does for cohesion. It is true that the eighth point of the motion was perhaps a little authoritarian, despite everything..., thanks to the contribution of other groups remained better and manageable to urge to compensate the artists and companies of the sector for the unilateral cancellations of the joints because of the Covid, insisting on finalizing the hundreds of artists before two months. And, lastly, the sea of eggs and key to reactivate the sector, review with the Health Department the Covid measures for live performances to make the current ones more flexible and revive the sector. We play a lot, culture and live performances need to go back to ordinary activity and follow. We will continue to insist, we will continue to seek complicity, and we will continue to feel coughing and coughing until we find a solution to achieve a life worthy of the professionals of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Héctor Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.32.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Look, this tragic health, economic and social crisis that we are all experiencing has put the cultural policies of the Government of the Generalitat in the mirror of its own failures. What has the government, the various governments of the Generalitat, done here in Catalonia over the last ten years? For they have given priority, what they have done is prioritise the social divide and division between Catalans, and they have forgotten the main thing, which is precisely to manage cultural policy, create wealth and create well-being. The result of the cultural policy of the last ten years, therefore, in what has been the chaos, the absolute chaos, with very negative effects on the health of creation, and, even worse, on the institutional framework, which has weakened over the last few years. I think it is known to all, the current situation of culture. On other occasions we have already told you. Have they learned absolutely nothing from the crisis in 2008-2010? have they learned nothing during all this time from the outcome of that crisis and the effects it had on culture? Because the problems and needs were already evident then. And in ten years what they've done is not solve them. And this unprecedented crisis of the Covid has arrived and caught them in contraption, caught them sleeping. An absolute lack of leadership on the part of the council, which reacted late with improvisation, thinking more about covering the file and drawing news than in evaluating the true dimension of the crisis and the needs of the sector; a budget of Culture that has been reduced practically year after year and is currently far from that 2_per_cent that the sector demands, and neither do you have a plan to achieve it; you continue without carrying out the census of artists, when it is a demand of more than a decade ago, that would have helped to avoid the current lack of defence in which hundreds of cultural workers are found; you have not made a long-term strategic plan, but neither have it in the medium, and in the short term only have improvisation and patches; you have not wanted to develop a law of sponsorship or cultural micro-mecenation, which in situations such as the current one would provide extraordinary resources to culture; you have not implemented a cultural bonus that guarantees access to culture to groups with difficulties of access. And so I could go on and on, putting them in front of the mirror of their own failures that is highlighting this crisis of the Covid. On 14 March, when the confinement began and the entire cultural sector was set to lower the curtain, the Government already knew, and so we also warned from Citizens, that the culture that, the cultural industry, that cultural workers would be one of the most affected sectors of the crisis, and it is clear that it has been. But this government reacted late, reacted with improvisation, with a supposed plan, which seemed more like a press outlet than a genuine rescue plan for the cultural sector, nor did it have sufficient economic resources, nor was it a comprehensive strategy, nor did the measures provide an adequate response to the situation in which the sector and the companies are located, let alone a response to the workers. That is why what we did last July from Citizens was to present a motion in this Parliament where nearly 80 proposals were put forward to deal with the cultural emergency. And in that motion, for example, culture was already declared, as is required here, a priority and strategic sector. And it is that something has found this behavior, and that is what many of us already knew, that culture is a strategic sector and an essential good. How many of us during this confinement have listened to music, read books, watched audiovisual productions, or visited different virtual museums? Culture, of course, develops our way as people, but it also defines us as human beings. But that motion that was approved went much further, pushing for urgent and long-term measures to overcome this crisis, such as, for example, increasing the budget of the Department of Culture up to 2_per_cent; developing the much-needed census of artists, opening lines of help for professionals and technicians in the cultural sector affected by the suppression of activities; promoting tax benefits and measures to promote patronage; enabling an agile compensation system in case of cancellations to prevent the closure of cultural agents; encouraging shock plans for each of the cultural sectors; developing a plan to revive culture. And so up to nearly 80 measures were adopted that I would like this Government to have in mind. In short, that today we are going to vote in favour of this motion, because many of the measures they have proposed almost four months ago that are approved, that we present them in Citizens, were approved in this chamber, and the Government continues in its lethargy, with its instability in the department, where goes the third appointment of a councillor in three years. Thus it is impossible to have stability in cultural policies. They have neither a cultural plan to overcome the crisis, nor a strategy, nor a genuine cultural policy. In short, its management is an absolute disaster.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, you have the word Mrs Jenn Díaz MP. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.34.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Well, this pandemic has brought us credit for the cultural sector, and I would name three very important ones. In the first place, precariousness and how we resolve it; in the second place, professionalization, and in the third place, normalization. For what it does to precariousness, we agree that the culture of contracting good practices must begin to be a reality in the sector, and it is a shame that one of the sectors that we consider essential for the welfare state, that can function as a pot of education and that has an unquestionable job to do in this line, that brings value and economic engine to the country and that it is, moreover, a value in itself, because art is a value in itself, you are always in a state of absolute precariousness, full of practical evils, and the worst of these practical evils is that they are normalized. A sector that survives, that blows more than not alive, and with artists and workers who cannot bear the cost of a life, of a life project, and we think it's systemic, that it's a question of the market. The other day Julia Barceló said she couldn't afford the logger and said: "Look for a job that has more work to do. No, this is not the solution we want for the cultural sector: to have a stable job and that the cultural sector remains like a hobby for its workers. This culture of contracting led to professionalization. You've got to get us straight. The culture channel has to be developed, because it works without there being any rules that adapt to the intermittencies and the functioning of the sector itself. That is to say, the cultural sector adapts, with its particularities, to which it already exists, and what this pandemic calls for and this social and economic crisis is just the opposite, that institutions, legislation, administrations adapt to the cultural sector and give them this coverage. How many years have we had a hundred? And we know that the Conca is working there, not just for the artists, but also for the cultural workers. And how many times did he complain? Are we really unable to count how many artists and cultural workers we have and how we give this coverage? The other day, talking to some companies about the work that is not to be done here, but that is to be done in Madrid, about some legislative changes, we said, we came to the conclusion that at the end where the bullfighter is to be put « artist or cultural worker. Do we really have this more normalized coverage of the bullfighting sector than of the cultural sector in the 21st century? And finally, as I said, normalization. Whether an artist or a worker creates or not from the cultural sector can bear the cost of a lifetime. The Covid during the first months in which the cultural sector was completely put up with the few structures that the sector had and, therefore, the intervention of the institutions was a subsidiary intervention. We agree. They were stuck, they didn't have any work, they couldn't work, and so this was the intervention the Generalitat had to do. But now, the other day, speaking in a meeting with the councilwoman, we say that this look has to be changed and that now what the department has to do is not subsidize, but guarantee and ensure that the cultural sector and, in particular, the culture in life does not lapse. Therefore, in order to oblivion this idea that the cultural sector is a subsidized sector, that it is "cultural parities", as they say at the Gala de Catalunya the Teló, what we have to guarantee now is not so much this subsidy, as to say that the culture and culture in life is not closed, cannot be confined in such a normal way and before time, let us say. And in the same way that the principle was essential, as I said, that the Administration intervened with help, now this change of layout has to be made. More than anything because the artists and the workers have not asked at any time when we solve the paper, but they want to be able to work. Something as simple as that. Before this first moment when culture was stigmatized, intervention must now make this change and it is not so easy to confine culture. And that's why we asked from this Parliament that it was an essential service and an essential good, because it can be considered an exception of all these new regulations. And this has to be the objective. And that's why we're going to bring this young man forward most of the time. But we ask them that, to do these managements from this chamber, we can also go to the Congress of Deputies, make this statue of the artist. Because all we're thinking about is the Covid, it's not going to serve us for the pandemic weekend. And the cultural sector before the pandemic already had a lot of systemic problems. Everything that didn't work out has to be solved, as I say, by the way, that's this rescue plan, but more there. Because if normality was to have less normalized the professional activity of the cultural sector respects the bullfighters, we do not want to return to this normality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, it is now the turn of Congressman Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.36.0	Thank you, President. We remember today, October 9th, the companies and companies of the Valencia Country in this shared struggle. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. With the coup of state of toga and monarchy that feels from here, we have lost an important accomplice to culture, which is the very honorable President Quim Torra. Last week Jaume Plensa to Catalunya Radio in an interview posed in full that art has the ability to heal. The doctors don't ask you where you're coming from, and they ask you what's wrong, he says, and they cure the body. Art, he said, heals the soul. I add to it: culture. Therefore, we need to talk about cultural policies in order to have a healthy society and with quality creative artists, on condition, with performances. And so, what we have to do – of all, all – is to allow and resume cultural activity in these pandemic times, to resume cultural activity and that the culture we live in does not last. The stake for the essential culture of the very honorable President Torra, and that continues the councilwoman Àngels Ponsa, believes that the rescue plan has to make special focus on precisely this, in promoting activity and helping that culture does not last. Helping that out of the way that for health reasons is under what makes it profitable, therefore, help is direct to businesses, to music and why that artist, therefore, can work, can act, can dance, can direct, can photograph, etc. And in this sense, there are some, strength of our reviews. The motion also talks about the status of the artist and the hundreds of artists. We believe that there is still a debate about some questions arising from the state of the artist, which must be, precisely, as Jenn said, the fundamental tool for unravelling many aspects of the dignity of the contracts of the professionals of the culture, the labor rules. But is the artist's special rule the right one? And, is he the only one? Is there anything else? What do we mean by professionals of culture? I think it's a debate that we still have to do and not just in this chamber, but that the Conca and, above all, allow'msmen of commons and socialists, in the corresponding ministries of Treball, of Hisenda and of Culture, therefore, it's a work that is going on and that we would already like to be able to do it alone here. That would mean that we have many transferred skills. For the moment, this so progressive government, for what it does to the state of the artist, therefore, progress, progress..., poquet. We have a question of funds, too, which is the lack of resources, the poor financing of the competitions of the Catalan government – fiscal deficit, in short – and now we will have to add European funds. And, on the other hand, we have a model of culture financing in Catalonia that we certainly need to review. It can't be that the department has to pick up a game here to get it out of there because it won't cure the evil and it's a waste for the government that's unnecessary and that needs to be solved. Who's the per capita public investment in culture and what's the government doing? Is it fair for healthy society? Wouldn't it be hot to work from an investment in culture per inhabitant? Wouldn't it be cool to think of a new financing model paradigm? And if you ask me, we cannot look at another band, we believe from our group that a modern society of the European Union cannot ignore the role of mecenatge. Sponsorship protects culture and aid, it is a necessary public-private combination. It's unthinkable that they don't evolve around here, Mr. Pere Aragonès, they can't talk about it and move forward. Mesenage is an economic and social return to culture. It's over, President. Culture has conformed, it has shaped Catalonia's demands as it was born. We don't forget, a language, a few rights, a right and a community that wants to decide their future. Working for culture for most of us is working for people, for society that is culturally healthy, that said Plensa, and also working for the republic. Culture and freedom. Finally, I would like to thank Conchi Abellán for her friendliness, the good deal, the acceptance of messages, the debate, the argumentation and the transactions up to where we got there. It seems to me that there has always been a way to work very comfortably that we have the Committee on Culture. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Rafel Bruguera has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputys the deputies. Good morning. Indeed, Mr. Ten, surely the Statue of the Artist progressed adequately but progressed slowly, or slower than we would like. The problem is that the Catalan part of the Statue of the Artist, the one in which the same Conca says that there are sufficient skills because it is pulled forward from Catalonia, is not that progress properly, it is that it is dead. It's absolutely nothing. It is obvious that the hundreds of artists of Catalonia must have made the Generalitat of Catalonia, not the government of the state. I guess so, man. I don't think that's what you're looking for. Well, the Statue of the Artist, they recognize that there are some debates still pending..., but the hundreds of artists depend on the Government of Catalonia in the case of Catalan culture. That I made myself clear. And that's exactly what we're dealing with. In any case, we are in front of a young man, a new man, many motions on culture these past months presented for most of the parliamentary groups. Most of which have been approved. But the problem is not this, the problem is not that we are discussing aspects of the Catalan cultural sector, which we agree with well – that is, the Committee on Culture – with hopes of reaching agreement. That's not the problem, we already do. The problem is that what's approved doesn't apply, that's the problem. Mirin, I am prepared to present a motion, a motion for a resolution, which says: "The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress does not make any new proposal on culture. He urges the government to complete all that has been approved for unanimity these past few months. I'm not fa. That's the problem. We don't cheat, we don't miss it. The problem is that you, as much as you speak of the sovereignty of this Parliament, must be raised for the second time that, for which you are interested, but, in reality, for the concrete policies that you can change in the case of the Catalan cultural sector, the precariousness, the intermittence and the lack of the presupposition of culture in Catalonia, you do not consider this Parliament to be raised. Why don't they apply, why don't they get to the things they've given themselves? And I'm telling you, I wouldn't dispense with those that were granted by the majority, or those that were approved by unanimity. That's the real problem. And then Catalan culture has another problem. We agree that there are structural, endemic aspects, such as the lack of presupposition, 2_per_cent, etc. But there are two questions that came out today, such as intermitency and precariousness. And it's true, and you're perfectly consistent: the same intermitency and the same precariousness of the Culture Council, five advisors/consellers in four years. Few things can be planned on long terms. Few policies can be planned in the medium term, in the long term, beyond day-to-day management. Therefore, we will vote in the majority in favour of this motion. In fact, many of these points have already been raised by our parliamentary group in this plenary as well as by the Committee on Culture with the same wording or with a similar wording, and which have already been approved, I hope today is still approved. But, in any case, there are some points that have changed and changed in positive, especially points 2 and 8, which I believe with the drafts and the transactions that have come to have substantially improved the wording. But we won't vote on that, too. We understand that some of these points are the competence of the State and, therefore, in this case, the competence of a ministry presented, precisely, for a minister of Unitas Podemos. And, therefore, I hope that, from the good management of the deputy Abellan, in front of the minister of Unitas Podemos, we will be able to bring it forward, some of these questions, which, I repeat, are state competence and which the same minister of culture has been demanding for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.40.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. We, from the CUP, will also give support. We have already said, we have a number of motions, motions for resolutions... We ourselves have put forward a motion for a resolution in the general policy debate that we have already agreed – also for the sake of unanimity – to activate an urgent work table. We called it interdepartmental, because we understood that it is a cross-cutting issue, which we are addressing when we talk about the deep, cultural crisis in Catalonia. Because, if you look at it, when we talk..., when we discussed Ciutadans's motion, now that we are debating that of the parliamentary group of the commons..., we are discussing a question that should be obvious, whether the workers and workers of culture are workers and whether they have rights – they are there. In fact, we – and I want to formalize it – will abstain from point 4: "To make a formal recommendation to all private companies in the sector so that it guarantees decent working conditions. A formal recommendation? But what's this? No, no, no. We are very much in agreement with the point: "Infuse aspects such as mandatory requirements for public subsidies, which is minimal. But it's not a formal recommendation. Workers and cultural workers are workers and have rights. I, like you said, rained on a mule. A highly pre-characterized sector, intermittently, with an intermittent consulting service. A Legislature – Dozena Legislature –, three Councillors of Culture, who, today, the new Councillor of Culture has neither dignity nor come. It's hard, it's a deep crisis. Anyone think a country can survive without culture? That a country can survive without major parties, without popular culture? What can the workers of culture, life, without public support sustain? Therefore, it is a structural crisis. And the origin, in part, is not the crisis of the Covid, it is a structural and institutional issue: little funding, intermittent burden. How many charges have passed through the Department of Culture, in the lobby of the councils? How many trusts, how many general directions, how many secretaries? It's not serious. This government has not taken cultural policy seriously. And with that culture [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President, if I may – universal culture, culture for the majority, culture for the majority, culture that does not make a social crack – is an indispensable condition for democracy, that is to say, the terms in which we have this debate. Fixin-s'there, the workers and workers of culture have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.41.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.42.0	...right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.43.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.44.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.46.0	I'll say that for acclaim, but maybe they're contradictory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.47.0	Let's leave it at the end of the debate. [[The president continues to speak without using the microphone, which is why the following words have not been recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, first, move, very briefly, that we will give support to the young man in his integrity. First, because it is important to transfer a message of unity to the sector, in this case, more than a few nuances that please more or less. And to insist again that a young woman "insists, urges the Government. Mr. Francesc Ten has posed himself as a lyric referring to Mr. Quim Torra's relationship with culture. I don't doubt it, and I'm sure in his private life he is, but in his public practice, as in politics, no. Mr. Torra and his government have converted culture, to what is said in the assignature ‘maria', that which, well, in fact, did not have much importance... you have converted the councillorship of Culture into the councillorship‘maria', that which is not well known to whom it can be offered. I think it was only left to offer myself to be a counselor, with the list they were wearing. Therefore, frankly, I do not think it is possible to say that this government has given importance to culture. And just make a small reference to a phone question, because it is perhaps the most controversial and difficult issue of the young person, which is how to maintain respect for municipal autonomy and, at times, urge, that it is also our obligation, not to suspend concerted activities. This is an important issue. Those of us who have been registrars sometimes know that in a situation like the present some assemblies may have a temptation, that it is a temptation that is, in fact, understandable, but that it should not be so, that it is to think that at the moment some money can be saved suspense some concrete activities. This in the background is what is said bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Because if you one year, as I say, with activities – I insist – those that healthily are allowed, to save some money the suspension definitively, and you can stay without cultural programming for when things return to normality, because you won't have practically who to contract, because many have to close. Therefore, I think it is important that we do this pedagogy, respecting municipal autonomy, but above all, making it clear that the assemblies also have a responsibility towards culture in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.50.0	An acclaim to Congresswoman Natalia Sánchez, of the CUP. The counselor, as you know – I think even so – is confined and following this Ple – this young man, the development – live. If that's enough acclaim, and if not, maybe it's a contradiction in the case she already knows.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.51.0	Be clear, Congressman, and that will be recorded in the Minutes. Mrs. Abellan, you have a two-minute turn to pronounce on the exams. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.52.0	Thank you. We want to thank the papers of the groups of Citizens and of Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left, which, without any doubt, go in the line of enriching the text and improving it, especially those of government, which are very technical and this wording makes more feasible the hard power in term the measures maintaining the experience of the initial text of the papers. But obviously, despite the predisposition, there's one thing we can't accept from the side of the road, which is number two, point three. We cannot continue pulling drivers out on the subject of techniques and artists working in cultural events and, well, we need to continue working to create the necessary contractual figures so that precariousness does not continue in this situation. Rafel Bruguera, from the Ministry of Work we are working to the maximum to guarantee the labor rights. He always does. The apartment to hire artists' regular workers is legal, that's right now. What we say is that it has to be completed and that the workers do not have to go to companies or cooperatives to make an invoice, because otherwise, they do not hire them. That's happening and it's not acceptable. Together with the Republican Left, it is clear that we must work, as we say, for the State of the Artist, we agree that as it is now proved insufficient. That's why we have the compromise as the government, he's already said, even though it's slow, what he's gonna do and make the changes. Let's hope you're really on the better side and not another excuse to continue blaming the State for the government's mismanagement. We have shown that if we all have our own band, that if we all contribute from our experience and expertise, from the different spaces we occupy, we can achieve that the culture we live in, and the whole culture, does not die. If they work as a team, listening to us, but also listening to the collections, we can get the right synergies to get the current situation better and not a dark moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Question to the Government on the import of the Ebro Delta to the primary sector]] [[300-00302/12]] After this debate, we turn to the next item on the agenda, in this case on 14th, which is the question to the Government on the import of the Ebro Delta to the primary sector, an question presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the deputy Irene Fornós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.54.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members..., and thank the Councillor for being here today to talk about a subject as important as the primary sector in the Ebro Delta, a sector that is perfectly combined with the Ebro Delta and that one and the other complements perfectly. The Ebre Delta is the largest wetland in Catalonia, comprising one of Europe's most important aquatic, environmental and biodiversity habitats. A territory, moreover, strategic for the agricultural economic development with the conreu de l'arros, which occupies 65_percent of its surface. With an extension of more than 320_quilometres_squares, it is the third largest delta in the Mediterranean and is almost all of the existing environmental protection figures: Ramsar, ZEPA, Xarxa Natura 2000, and, moreover, it is a biosphere reserve for UNESCO and natural park for the Generality. It also has a number of European directives which have great importance for its protection, such as the Waters Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Aus Directive. These high ecological values of sustainability, conservation of habitats and maintenance of the deltaic system, are linked to the supply of complete water from the river Ebre, to its final stretch of the mouth of the environmental zones and to the quality of the water masses that arrive there. Similarly, according to the agricultural habitat, mainly that of the arròs, but also that of the fishing and that of the aquaculture, and also the tourism. At the Ebre Delta they are cultivated every year around 135,000_tones of land, for which we can regard the Ebre Delta as one of the largest bursts of land in the Mediterranean, an exquisite land that enjoys a quality and protected designation of origin. A cult that every year makes its cycle and that is perfectly combined with the life saved and natural that there is between its redness, its basses, canyars and platges, living perfectly all in harmony. Precisely, these days in the Ebre Delta there is a frantic rhythm of reels loaded up and down, sawers, tractors, pages that are following their back camps. We are at the end of the cycle of the end and at the end of a campaign that for many pages of the Delta... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] - Has he stopped? , ah, no –... especially in the Marquesa area and the lower part of the Arena, there have been no easy people. The last month of the generation of the Catalan coast was affected by the temporary Gloria, feeling the delta of the Ebra the territory that worst suffered its consequences. A storm that swallows the platters of the Marquesa, the Arena, and that we see with impotence as the fragile bar of the Trabucador also broke. A storm that entered delta endins, flooding an approximate extension of about three thousand hectares of land, affecting above all, as we have said, the area of the left hemisphere. We all remember those pictures for television, where it seemed that the Ebre Delta was stuck under the sea. Fortunately, the water of the sea, little by little, went backwards and back to the sea. He then began a race against the clock so that he could clean up the salt water sprinklers, so that he could prepare his own colita, all the more so without any expectation of success before the uncertainty of how to run those camps that had been denied salt water, as well as the delay in being able to prepare the camps and sow. The aquaculture sector also took a very bad part, seeing as Gloria also destroyed its installations and made its production evil. The aquaculture and fishing sectors also have an important importance as socio-economic activity in the Ebre Delta. The cultivation of the Delta Seafood is possible for the characteristics of this idyllic space and its baths, linked to the water supply of the Hebrew River, that both for the Seafood and for fishing is of vital importance. Counselor, we know of all the work that has been done since the department and has been done so that the primary sector, the main source of input from the people of the Ebre Delta, has been able to refer. A few actions that we can certainly discuss with much more detail, and re-evaluate them; not just these, but all that has been happening for years. And we also know that from the department it is recognized the effort of pages, of fish farmers and fishers to carry out their activities, and of the importance it has for our country. But you will advise, as much as I do, as the pages of the Ebre Delta, as its inhabitants, as all of us here today, know that all this is at risk. The production of back to the Ebre Delta, the cultivation of seafood and fishing are threatened if we do not protect the Ebre Delta. It is necessary to protect the Delta if we want to save the activity of the primary sector in the Ebre Delta. This time we can say that, least of all, we didn't get out. Even though some of the consequences of Gloria are still evident, the Delta has been able to escape. But we remain realistic, the Delta and the life in the Ebre Delta need much more involvement and action on the part of the competent institutions to be able to fight against its fragility. We could see a Gloria... that in those camps where there was salt water if it could be produced again. You yourself were able to go down a few weeks ago to the Ebre Delta and prove it in the first person. But let's go in late and any time, not that it's as violent as Gloria was, it's going to put into evidence again that the Ebre Delta is in danger. In fact, this very same summer, a little leaven, we could see how the Labourer's system was breaking again, a fragility that is given to the regression, the subsidence, the minute of the end of the river and also to the consequences of the climate change. The people of Ebre have been asking for solutions from the municipal institutions, entities, plataforms in defense of the river, and also now from the consensus table. From Desquerra many years ago we also worked to find solutions from the hands of all of them. We wear many years in which the defense of the Hebrew River and the protection of the Hebrew River has been one of our priorities. Calen solutions and these have to pass through the ebbing of the sediments of the Red Riba and Flix embassements. And the government of the state, the government of the PSOE and of We can lay the piles to make it possible. The recovery and transport of sediments to the mouth is technically feasible, as demonstrated in other countries. In fact, you're studying for UPC and IRT so they prove it. The Ebre Delta needs to recover the sediments. This will allow the long term to recover elevation and fight against the subsidence, against the rise of the sea level as a result of the climate change. It will also help to minimize salinity, which is so harmful to the landowner. And a river with a complete ecological and bearing sediments will also benefit fishing and aquaculture, which so much needs these sediments loaded with nutrients. For the extreme situation in which the Ebre delta is found, urgent measures are also needed. And that's why we're also asking that the 6_million euros approved in the Generality's last assumptions thanks to a parliamentary agreement the Department of Territories put them in place and directed them to measures to protect the delta, as it was compromised with the people of the Jews. In the department's cove, they don't do anything. And on the other hand, during the control session, we listened as the Member of Parliament Terrades told us that the ministry has the delta protection plan that we need to know at the end of the year. Also as Councillor Calvet recognized his skills to act. Fired it. They can't wait any longer. The delta needs us to grab the cent_per_cent. We have these 6_millions and we need to reverse them and protect the Delta. We put all the tools in it, we fight it from all the fronts. In Esquerra we are doing this: here in Parliament, driving the creation of a study commission for the protection of the Delta ; in Madrid, where Esquerra we have drawn up the draft law of climate change and energy transition to introduce to it the management of sediments in the apartment that makes reference to the planning and management of water and that, surprisingly, this distance from the draft law does not make reference to sediments. And, of course, here in Parliament we also have work to do. The Climate Change Follow-up Committee was set up a few months ago, but the chairman of the committee, the MP Nattalia Sánchez of the CUP, has not yet convened it. What are we waiting for? We all considered it necessary for the situation in which our planet is located, and for all the reasons I have just explained, I believe that we are all aware that the Ebre Delta will be the first area in Catalonia to suffer the consequences of climate change. They can't stand. We can't have spectators. And it'll be over by now. We want a living delta, we want a full river of life and we want a delta of the Ebra where present and future generations can also earn their lives, where we can continue to make payments, produce rice, grow seafood and fish. We want the primary sector, so unique, to continue its activity in this characteristic area and to continue to make the people of the Ebre Delta able to continue living from the Delta and to live thanks to the Delta. And finally, I wouldn't want to leave my intervention without saying hello to the companies and the people of Valencia, today it's October 9th, and remember that Catalonia doesn't have a king and that we don't have a king in the Lands of Ebro either. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.56.0	Well, good morning to all of you. Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Fornos. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. As you well know, and I am not tired of repeating it, because I have put it to manifest several times, the role of farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, and in the case of fish farmers and fish farmers is extremely essential in this country. But, often, with effort, with his tireless effort and dedication, there is not enough. Beyond working for them and with them, what we have to do is to follow them by listening, what we have to do is to follow them by learning and following them by agreeing with the knowledge they and they have of the territory, which they know well is everything. In this case, the reddish sector of the Ebro Delta, but not only, asks us to act firmly and forcefully to protect the Delta from the storms of the sea and to reduce, obviously, the marine intrusion by flushing, which is the first step, as you know, for the entrance of marine water to the plane of the Delta. The honourable Member reminded us: the temporary glory of the last month of generation left three thousand hectares of reddening flooded under thirty centimeters of salt water. Also, water-reg and drainage infrastructure were absolutely damaged and some totally– altogether, it is worth saying – destroyed, and one of the most important pumping stations in the left hemisphere without functioning capacity, obviously swallowed by the sea's sorre. The intense plugs flooded camps and lanes and left the images already known from a semi-submerged Ebre delta. The left side, less elevated than the right, and with a line of shore with much more narrow plates, is the one that got the most, the one that got the most. For the same reason, the damage was also important on the island of Buddha and, obviously, the Trabucador remained, as you know, practically hidden, and left the flood of Alfacos without any kind of protection. The aquaculture sector was also partially affected: thirty-one of its 167 muscles, and nine more of them were completely destroyed, and they damaged structures and lost the muscle and oysters that were there at the time. If we want – if we want – to save the Delta, we have to plan seriously and immediately how to face its consolidation. There was the production of backs, one of the economic motors of the area, and also the environmental benefits, which is not very little, which he offers us and which allowed him on his day to obtain the declaration of natural reserve of the biosphere. I've also put up a manifesto a number of times. Since the department, government action has been articulated into two major axes: the first, the re-evaluation of foods produced in Catalonia and the guarantee of access to these foods, and the second, territorial cohesion to maintain a cohesive territory, an active, living and dynamic territory, socially and economically. Precisely, the actions that we have brought to an end to the Ebre Delta were to reverse the effects of the temporal Gloria, have been and continue to be aligned with these objectives and, obviously, also compromised with the people who live and work there, and work the land or work the sea. That is why, in a very telegraphic way, I would like to make some of the actions in order to help revitalize the primary sector. I'll talk about five actions, I repeat, very quickly and telegraphically. The first ones, the actions to reverse the damage caused by the temporary Gloria and the October 2020 iguats to the communities of rulers. On 22 September the department granted a total of forty grants to the communities of affected residents for October 19th and the temporary Glory of the generation of 20th, with an import of 3,6_million euros. With these aids, all the pumping stations – all of them – have been set aside, all the salt water and sweetness that flooded the delta, to make repairs on roads in regions and drainages, where the five communities of the Delta Regiments have received a total of 1_million_four hundred and a total of 1,000 euros. A_second action: recovery of the redness and potential of the product, important. On September 19th, I myself – the honourable Member reminded me – went to the Delta to meet with the redheads and evaluate the saw campaign after being denied salt water. A good part of the camps are back to production. And I say it – let me 'hoddle like this – with great joy. In this sense, the aids have served to do the work for which they were intended: to re-cultivate, for the most part, to return productive capacity to the area, to let the sprinklers work and to do their work. To recall that the department has granted 6_million euros for the recovery of the productive potential of the affected farms, which have benefited 515 requests for the country's arrest. A third action: the fight against the cargoman poma. The main objective of the fight against this plague is to lower the density of populations to the left hemisphere of the delta and to avoid, of course, its propagation to the right margin, where specific focus has appeared. As you know, the most effective method is the treatment of soap products. We have also recently called for a line of aid for the red farmers to subsidize a portion of these costs, derived from the purchase of saponins. To also agree with the sector on a set of long-term actions against this plague, we were to create – important – the Sectoral Technical Commission for the Follow-up of the Ebre Delta Poma Cargo. I would like to give value, if I may, to all this good work that has been done around the control of this invasive species that affects the blushing. A fourth action, a fourth action, is the recovery of productive capacity, also in this case for the fisheries and aquaculture sector affected also by the temporary Gloria. The department, in this case, enabled a specific line aimed at recovering the productive capacity of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, with an import with more than 2_million euros. And finally, for a band, it is proposed to approve seven aid shippers for an import of 274,000 euros, directed to the aquaculture sector, for the restitution of production potential as well. I, lastly, the impulse of the fishing sector. But we can not only be left with the actions planned in the Marc del Gloria, because there are many more, but it can be pointed out, on the other hand, that during 2020 it was approved or approved a supply of half a million euros of aid to the participatory local development. Specifically, the Local Fisheries and Maritime Action Group of the Ebre Lands, which boosts investments to the territory by more than 1_million euros. It's also important and vital. The aquaculture sector is also accompanying itself, with the creation of an organization of producers of Ebro Delta molluscs as a tool to improve, of course, marketing and increase the financing possibilities of the same sector. Also highlight two Delta co-management committees. The first, that of the raw skull and the second that of the rock pop of the Lands of the Ebre, which is captured with lapses and with dwarfs, also two committees of co-management vital for this sector. And let me also remind you that all this has been done in some way, and it is important, in Catalonia's maritime strategy, that we are going to approve in this Parliament, as a full road, and that we must give an answer, until 2030, to the challenge of developing and bringing the evil economy much further in a sustainable, obviously, and harmonious way. Therefore, very important is what we do and is also important as we do. And it's that we push a model of low-to-high management, which is this co-management, with the participation and ownership of the collections involved as well. It wouldn't be worth it if we did it alone. And let me also, if we're talking about the Delta, say that we're always working on the hand of the sector, and an example is the Cogestion Table of the Ebre Delta Aquaculture. In this case, it's very important. From there we deal with the claims of the producers of molluscs, as well as all that makes reference to the aquaculture production of these molluscs of the Ebra delta, the bivalve molluscs. And a conclusion, finally, Members and Members. From the department we will continue, as it cannot otherwise be, to work with farmers and farmers, and at the expense of all those who live from the land or who live from the sea to the Delta area, which is what we are dealing with today. We will continue to move in the same direction because the Jew is the brim of this country, he is the brim of Catalonia, and he must continue to feel a living, dynamic territory and, obviously, filled with opportunities. But it is essential – it is absolutely essential, too – to protect the same delta. It is essential to protect the same delta, because if it does not act in an imminent way, avoiding the backwardness of the coast line, the area of the page and all the activity related to it is in danger of disappearing. And that we must say without fear. This could be a reality. And this department and I personally are absolutely concerned that this does not happen, it is to say, that, Members and Members, we will continue to pray working and fighting on the side of this territory, at the side of pages, pages; of fishermen, fishermen, fish farmers and fish farmers because the Delta is still alive and fighting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the judicial situation in the Spanish State]] [[300-00305/12]] The next question is about the legal situation in the Spanish State, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republic. You have the word to expose it to Mr. Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.58.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Consellera Capella, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I believe that any citizen, regardless of his political ideology, both in the left-wing and the Unionist and Independentist sides, must today be deeply concerned about the situation of justice in the Spanish State. In recent times, all those linked to independence, almost three thousand people, have found that the lack of legal certainty in the field of criminal law has been installed in the Spanish State. We have proved, with the complicit silence of an important part of the Spanish left, the volatility of legal, doctrinal and jurisprudence principles consolidated over time and its substitution for legal engineering in the service of a single idea that prevails over principles or right: that of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish State. In the imposition of this idea, they have been destroyed, without any type of scrutiny, we insist, how many legal, doctrinal and case law principles and have consolidated for the past forty years in fundamental aspects such as competence and the distribution of assumptions between the courts, the typical nature of criminal offences, procedural rigour, the interpretation and application of the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the interpretation and application of prison rights and benefits, as well as the violation of the norms on jurisdictional competence for their revision. This situation, to say the least, has only been possible for the survival of a rotten crust that persists in the dome of the judiciary of the Spanish State and that has now been winged, as if frozen from the permagel of Siberia, by no change from the hypothetical transition of the 78th rule. We want to make it clear that we are not referring to the integrity of judges and magistrates, many times victims, like many others, of this democratic anomaly that is seen in the system of the judiciary and that they work day by day to realize the principles and convictions that have awakened their vocation, which is the exercise of fairness. And on the other hand, because they are not aligned with the crust, they can penalise legitimate expectations of professional progress that they certainly do. The government of the judiciary in the Spanish State is the General Council of the Judiciary, one where, by its absolute relevancy in a state, the Spanish legislature, which re-legislative legislature is skewed by the corruption scandals of the majority parties, which end up legally judicialized, and fights almost to death between the political formations that claim to win the courts where it loses votes at the polls; it is the object of a struggle between the left and right axes to convert it – the General Council of the Judiciary – into an instrumental tool for the services of the majority parties to the parliamentary arch of the Congress of Deputies. It is worth saying, however, that the right is much better than the left, extremely better – and the verb is not idle –, at the time of modulating the court's tarann and placing it members related ideologically. To the title of example, it would only be useful to remember the whatsapp of Ignacio Cosidó, on November 2018, spokesman of the People's Group to the Senate, that in an application group that included all the senators of his formation « was charged with being able to control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which judges deputies, senators and members of the Government, for reasons of an agreement with the PSOE and which entailed that the magistrate Marchena was appointed president of the Supreme Court and in such a capacity of the General Council of the Judiciary. The leaking of the whatsapp caused this agreement between the majority parties to be broken and the magistrate Marchena, aware that more immediately a new opportunity would arrive, see the opportunity to provide a new great service to the status quo and add a new dungeon to the ass, presiding over the trial against the Catalan political prisoners who ended up condemning them to prison. But this fight without a quarter between the People's Party and PSOE is converted into a Roman pax in its defence of the status quo, and this consensus is not only expressed in the defense beyond the rationality of the survival of a territorial model that offends political, cultural and linguistic minorities in favour of uniformity, but also in the manifest will to perpetuate a still-of-power, more so-called control of the highest instabilities of the judiciary and public function, so that it can assert that its action in the State is not a defense of those who want independence for their citizens. The State defends these elites which are considered to be the State itself. And to make this sense of survival and historical continuity come true, the successor pact to the Spanish State was sealed between the joints of the regime of the Franco striker general and the Bourbon dynasty. The Law of Succession in the Head of State of 1947, the fifth of the eight founding laws of the Movement, sealed this pact and established that the successor of the dictator would be the one who appointed him. And from this pact, too, there's no debt to the sovereigns of the House of Bourbon with this rotten caste that has never made a deal or volunteered to make it. We're not the only ones, the independents, the ones who hold a statement like this, because it can sound thick. A few days ago the president of the Francisco Franco Foundation reminded Philip VI that he owed the throne to the dictator. And with the same right to speak that the president of the Francisco Franco Foundation, it was heard the president of the Supreme Court and at the same time the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, Carlos Lesmes, when he liked to filter with interest a conversation with who occupies the throne of Spain, according to which this – the Borbo – expresses to him that his will has been present at the release of layoffs to the Judicial School in Barcelona. "I would have liked to be in Barcelona," he said. As my company Sergi Sabrià defined, a clever episode in which the judiciary and the monarchy are mutually wounded in order not to be able to share the scene in Barcelona at the release of the outposts of the Judicial School and not to be able to make clear, once more, that absolute power is not only to be exercised, it is to be displayed before the oppressed, and better if it is at home. Any Member of this Parliament should be shocked by the President of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary, publicly questioning a prerogative of the Executive, that of referring the acts of the Head of the State, in accordance with Article 64 of the Constitution, and publicly confronting, publicly, the Head of the State, never voted in democracy, with the legitimate government resulting from elections to the Congress of Deputies. And publicly questioning the decision of the Executive and allowing such considerations as its presence – referring to the Bourbon – "has an enormous political dimension. But who did he think he was, this lord, to express himself in those terms? If anything is vetoed, it is manifesting itself in terms of opportunity or political convenience. This fact, like so many others, has shown more than the lack of democratic culture: the ignorance and the rebroadness manifests to everything that drives democracy, to the wisdom accumulated in this field, from the first reflections of Aristotle – he respects – to the definition, still valid in our days, of the division of powers, shared between Locke and Montesquieu. Man could think that monarchical and judicial absolutism is still alive and never – ever – eradicated from this State the Spanish, who lives, mainly in the judicial sphere, an authority that makes it appear in the worst places of the race at the planetary level of perception of independence and quality, much so that the carriers of some of the parliamentary groups present in this hemisphere tend to believe that we live in the paradigm of democracy and modernity. In this sense, the General Council of the Judiciary is once again relegated. After the time of the « Fuenteovejuna, all to one against independence with the main independent leaders imprisoned or exiled for political reasons, the main political forces of the Spanish parliamentary arch return to the trenches in their struggle for control of the organ of the government of the judiciary, the renewal of which is blocked for the People's Party to preserve its conservative majority, a situation that has even aroused concern in the European institutions, more concretely the European Commission, than all that is usually more concerned about trade and economic activity than in such mundane questions as the safeguarding of the civil and political rights of its citizens, in its report of 2020 on the state of law addressed this issue; it is the responsibility of the government of the government of the state of government, the government of the state of the state of independence. In short, a new element which calls into question the functioning of justice in the Spanish State, which joins the numerous judicial resolutions, both of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights, which are not saved by the pronouncement we have known today, which document, black on white, the abuse of justice and courts as a weapon against political dissent in the Spanish State. For all the expressed reasons, we would like to know, on your part, Mrs. Capella, Councillor of Justice of the Generality of Catalonia, what is the capture of the Government of Catalonia respect the situation of the judiciary in the Kingdom of Spain, and more concretely respect the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. And to answer the question, has the word the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.60.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MP Orobtig: In a democratic social state of law it has to govern a scrupulous separation of powers. It is a statement that we should all be very clear and that the last few years we have seen as the Spanish State what has been practiced is the confusion of powers. The judiciary must act with a scrupulous respect for the democratic principle and must confine itself to judging and executing it. This is and must be its only function. These days, you said, there is much talk about the blockade in the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary by the People's Party. But that's old. There have also been moments in the history of the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary in which others have been blocked. And, certainly, the election system of its members has degenerated into a division between the two major state parties as a function of their party identification. I'm talking about the system, I'm not talking, anyway... what would be hot is a reform of the election process of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Not who triages them. I insist: not who triages the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. And I'm making this statement I'm fully aware that who's to sort them out is where popular sovereignty is wrong. And it shouldn't be that the judges are triune among them, but who they are to triage must be those who represent the citizenry. And what needs to be guaranteed, therefore, is that the election is basic and is primarily based on criteria of merit and ability. But let us disengage ourselves, the problem of Spanish justice is not the election of the General Council of the Judiciary, much blocked that this is, in the same way that it was not a problem – or was – that the Constitutional Court dictated the State's judgment with several of its members that had already lapsed for the system of blocking the two major parties in the Spanish State. The problem of Spain's justice is structural. The problem with justice is that the Francoist courts, the Francoist structure of the judiciary, became democratic courts, went to the night representing the Francoist regime and raised the debt, so that they were fully democratic courts, and that is why we have a court that is called the Court of Public Order that became an exceptional court such as the National Court. And it can be explained by the ways that give you the real win, but to the real truth, what is true, therefore, is that it is an exceptional court, the National Audience. The problem... and the more it has, therefore, similarities in democratic Europe. The problem with Spanish justice is that the criminal law has been used to fight, as you pointed out, ideological positions and to fight political opponents. That's what's called the enemy's criminal law. The problem of Spain's justice, as I said, is structural. Mr Orobtig, you refer to the report of the year 2020 – this year – on the state of law recently presented to the European Commission. And, certainly, therefore, it does not leave the Spanish State and the Spanish judiciary in a good position. He urgently claims, therefore, that the General Council of the Judiciary is renewed and also questions the independence of the prosecution. Well, this report has been systematically reproduced over the years. So, it's not from now on, it's from the moon. But, as I said, the problem of Spanish justice is structural in nature, and it is not the first time that the Spanish judiciary appears in the European reports and in the reports of the United Nations and other international bodies. According to last year's Eurobarometer data, the Spanish State is the fourth country in the European Union where its citizens perceive a major lack of independence from the judicial system. Only Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovakia find themselves in the worst situation. And that is not the case, it is not the past year, but it is repeated in time and years, so it reproduces in all the reports that depend on the European bodies, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, and also international bodies, as I said before. And in order to reopen the clause, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights once again confirms that the Spanish justice system has a structural problem, and it shows, therefore, when remedies are available to the European Courts, in this case to the Strasbourg Court, when they admit them to trial from the first day, from the year 86, from the first time that Spain had access to it and, therefore, it was possible to accede to the European Courts. Thus, the European Court of Human Rights has resolved against the Spanish State in two_of_each_three proceedings alleging violations of human rights. This is the return of the Spanish State to the Court of Strasbourg. I will highlight some of them, because, obviously, even though some of the journeys in time are preachable from now on, from today. This week, October 6th: use of disproportionate police force, because justice looked at another side at a demonstration, too much police force against demonstrators; November 6, 2018, Otegi did not have a fair trial, partiality of the judge of the National Audience; March 13, 2018, the king's photo cream: condemn the Spanish State, because, therefore, the King's photos were taken on the right to freedom of expression; October 3, 2017, the returns on the ground of persons who arrive at the Spanish costs are illegal; June 13, 2017, the case of Atutxa did not have a trial; 2013, the year of October 3, 2017, the year of October 3, 2011, the returns on the ground of persons who arrive at the Spanish costs are illegal; the year of June 13, 2017, the case of Atutxa did not have a trial; the year of October 3, 2017, the year of October 3, 2017, the year of October 2012, the year of the parliamentary doctrine: the return of persons who arrive at the Spanish costs are illegal; the year of June 13, 2017, the case of Atutxa did not have a trial; the year of October 2013, the year of October 2013, the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the parliamentary doctrine: the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year And that's how I could go over and over again again. And in this context of violation of rights and lack of judicial independence, this very week we have also seen, again, as justice condemns the University of Barcelona for having approved a manifesto against the sentence that condemns political prisoners and press. A claim of right..., of first right: a manifesto has no legal effect, it is not an administrative act that is likely to be appealed. A verdict against the Kafkian university, which understands that the University of Barcelona has violated the right to ideological freedom, expression and education. A closer sense of time preceeded in defense of a misunderstanding of neutrality, neutrality that does not appear in the head law of the Spanish State – in the head law of the Spanish State – or in the Constitution, which began expelling flags and banners and ended up superimposing itself on the university autonomy expressly provided for in the Constitution. Will the public universities of our country be able to re-approve manifestos in favour of the pau and against an armed conflict, as they did in the year 2003, or should they, too, remain neutral? Defending human rights, defending human rights has never been a neutral issue; it is an obligation of public administrations to defend them and denounce when these human rights and those human rights are violated. Public administrations cannot act neutrally before the legitimate exercise of the defence of the fundamental rights. Also, this poor neutralized understanding has served to disqualify the very honorable President Torra. And it seems that the judiciary is not clear that in a democracy neither institutions nor public space are neutral, but that these express ideological pluralism according to the democratic principle. When I told them that the problem is structural, it also has to do with the neutrality of the judiciary. Because in a democracy that does have a right of neutrality, a right of impartiality, it's the judiciary. And I finished, President. And it's that when we found ourselves in the state of alarm because of the heavy health pandemic that we didn't suffer from the courts being neutral, they weren't neutral when this department, so what made it happen was to complete with what the United Nations said and what the Council of Europe asked of us, that it was not another thing to exonerate the prisoners. And when we did what was to be done, having the law completed and supplemented what was said in Article 86(4) of the Prison Law, and we started to release, the Supreme Court sent..., the press office of the Supreme Court sent a whatsapp directly to the public workers to condition their decision, as it has done in other things, which has made ad hoc modifications to all the current doctrine, as it is now the third degree and the possibility of completing the sentence, therefore, outside of the strict prison system. MPs, MPs, MP Orobtig, as the Councillor of Justice of the Government of Catalonia, I am concerned about the situation of justice in the Spanish State. Like you, I believe that measures for structural reform of the judicial system in line and with European values and recommendations to support judicial independence, guarantee effective judicial protection, halt the persecution of ideological positions by means of criminal law and protect the democratic system – I insist – protect the democratic system. With only structural reform, Spain's justice will no longer be at the top of Europe's judicial systems and will also put an end to the death penalty for violating the human rights of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much. Thank you, President for your patience. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about its intended lack of transparency]] [[300-00307/12]] The next item is the question to the Government about its intended lack of transparency, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. For the presentation, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.62.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Good morning, everyone. Bon dia, conseller, conseller d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency..., which is precisely the subject of this inquiry, transparency or rather the lack of transparency in this government. Look, a few days ago, my colleague, Congresswoman Susana Beltrán, had to apply for protection from the Ombudsman of the European Union, and also send a letter to the Commissioner for Transparency. Why? Well, because from your department, from the Department of Foreign Affairs, there is a systematic breach of the duty to answer the parliamentary questions put to you, precisely, about the action you are taking. The table has already given us protection on numerous occasions. We have also been given protection by the body, the body of this Parliament which ensures transparency, which has also called on you to hand over this documentation, but yet you continue to systematically violate the rules. This documentation is requested by Mrs Beltrán, to whom she is also entitled as an opposition member, and is thus set out in Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, because, as she said, it belongs to her department. Therefore, it is information that is related to the external action of the Government from where you are counsel. But it's that, besides, as I was telling you at the beginning, you're also the Transparency Advisor. Therefore, doubly serious, he does not do his job as a foreign adviser and neither does he do his job as a Transparency adviser. So it turns out that the Transparency Board, because more than transparent is dark, and you instead of being the Transparency Board member, because you are the opacity board member. That's right, Mr. Solé. It does not give the information we ask, it does not answer the questions we ask, and therefore it does not fulfil its duty and violates our right. And don't think, Mr. Solé, that we're talking about an isolated fact. I would give you this example of Mrs Beltrán, but no, it is that we are talking about repeated facts over the years, Mr Solé. A few days ago we were told from this rostrum, in the previous plenary, that we present again and again the same initiatives in Citizens. Look, don't get confused. We ask and answer why you don't answer, huh? If it's a tactic to see if we're tired, because I'm already telling you no and we're going to keep asking and answering until we know the truth, because that's our job, that's our job as the first opposition party in Catalonia, to know what the government is doing with the money of all Catalans. And because, moreover, every time you refuse to give us that information, for I already tell you that we suspect, because I do not see it normal. I mean, I think whoever doesn't fear, nothing hides. Therefore, why do you systematically and repeatedly deny us all the information we ask for? Why do they not answer the parliamentary questions we put to the Government? I'll give you a few examples to see what I'm talking about. For example, we have asked on many occasions about grants or payments made by the Generalitat to bodies, agencies or entities that are linked to the United Nations in the period 2013 to 2020. This request has been made in writing, I insist, on repeated occasions, and the answer we have been given from your department to justify the non-answer is that the question is very generic, that the question is imprecise. So, I from here took the opportunity to ask you, since I have you here, that what part of we want to know to whom of the United Nations the Generalitat pays money is not understood? , because the phrase is quite simple, Mr. Solé. So, I believe that today, by taking advantage of interpretation, we do have the opportunity to save that gap of impreciseness. So, when we present about the Generalitat the Generalitat are you. The United Nations, therefore, is that international body that ensures peace and international security, so roughly as not to spend the time of intervention. And when we present for the money, we obviously refer to the money of all the Catalans that you manage and decide where to spend. So, I believe that now that the subject, the verb and the complements are clear, please tell me, in the period 2013 to 2020, what payments the Generalitat has made to United Nations agencies. And I am convinced that everyone in this Chamber has understood the question and seems to you to be sufficiently precise, also the people who are listening to us at home, but still, Mr Councillor, if you consider that the question is still too generic, for I also invite you to ask me in your speaking time the doubts you have about this question, and I, delighted, will answer them, because we want to know what the money is being spent on, what the budget is spent on, millions of euros from all Catalans, and especially at a time as complicated as this in the middle of the pandemic. Look, more information that we asked you for and that you haven't provided either: all the information related to the Diplomat, which is that propaganda chiringuite that you used in the 2017 coup. Diplomat that, by the way, has been annulled this week by the Constitutional Court, basically because of this, because it is a chiringuito, because it violates the Constitution and because it violates the Statute of Autonomy. Two million euros costing us the Diplomat. We have put countless unanswered questions either. For example, we ask you to facilitate the relationship of those people whom you call ‘international visitors'. Who are these people, Mr. Solé? , because we were sent a listing, which I have here, and the listing puts – there are several things, aren't there? –., and says: « Programme of international visitors to the Diplomat, Swedish Members of Parliament, British Members of Parliament, Irish Members of Parliament, Swiss Members of Parliament, Estonian Members of Parliament, French Members of Parliament, Danish Members of Parliament, and there is a point that says: « Foreign Members; so, in bulk, « Foreign Members. I don't know, the next answer to best tells me that ‘people, people of the world, that you are using here, for what? What are they using this for? so to do diplomatic tasks that do not correspond to them. That is why they do not want to facilitate this listing, which I again take advantage of today to ask you again. It is not enough for us to say ‘foreign Members, we want to know who you are talking to and what you are talking about, because we have serious doubts about this. Look, we also want to know your foreign agenda. We asked the previous councillor on many occasions, there was no way, so please, because in his turn we would also like to be able to talk to us about this agenda. More examples, delegations abroad. Seven_million_and_average_of_euros that delegations tell us. What do they spend on? That we don't know what these so-called ambassadors are doing. Why do you not come to account here in this Parliament? Don't you say you're promoting Catalonia around the world? Come here and explain to us what they do, make those agendas easier for us. What happens is that you don't want us to know what you're doing. Why? , because you are not doing what is right, because you are devoting yourselves through these delegations to propaganda of the process and to talking badly about the rest of Spain, and that is why you do not want us to know, and that is why you do not want to come here to appear. And it is also that they have even vetoed that the Union of Auditors can monitor these delegations. What are they afraid of? What are you hiding, Mr. Solé? Do you know who didn't want to know about the matter either? The process syndicate, which, as always, is dedicated to helping the Government rather than fulfilling its role. And that is why we have had to go to the European Union People's Advocate – so much so that you talk about Europe, and you always invoke it and fill your mouth by saying that massive support that you have from Europe – well, you will know in Europe how this Government of the Generalitat spends it on transparency issues. And, of course, we have already raised a complaint to the committee, and our fellow citizens in Brussels too, because they will do the same and explain the reality of the opacity of the Government of the Generalitat as well. Look, as I told you before, you're the opacity advisor in a government that's a champion in opacity. Because don't think you're the only one, that is, there are more advisors also in this government who are dedicated to doing the same as you, as, for example, it's the case with Education – which is a shame that it's not the Bargalló advisor, but well, you'll see. We ask for the linguistic projects of center because in order to be able to know if the Spanish is actually used as a vehicle language in the Catalan public school and if it is therefore fulfilled with that percentage of 25_per_cent that mark the courts. Did the Government, the Government of the Generalitat, give us the adviser to these projects? No, no, We asked again, we did not get an answer, we called for amparo from the Bureau, we called for amparo from the Authority for Guarantee of the Right to Access to Information and again gave us reason. I don't know if you remember all this, but it's the same modus operandi I just explained to you with the themes of your department. After several requests, the counselor, as he had no choice but to answer, answered us and sent us to 2,949 websites of schools. That I think the idea Mr. Bargalló had was that we... I don't know, dissuade us, don't we? , in our work. I think that after the years we've been here, they don't seem to know us yet. Of course we visit the three-thousand websites, one by one, and do you know what we discover? , which only 659 showed these linguistic projects. Why? Because you do nothing to really ensure the use of Spanish in schools, and you don't even know what you're doing in the centers. This information is not only requested by us, it has also been requested by entities such as, for example, the Assembly for a Bilingual School, which has also been denied the information. And even the right of access to information body has proposed and urged to sanction the General Secretariat of Education for opacity, for not giving this information. I'm running out of time – there are many cases. I hope in the time of reply I can keep saying. But at the very least, take advantage of this turn, to see if we are clear on the subject, for example, of grants to the United Nations, and, at least, because that answer will be answered. Thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.64.0	Good morning to everyone, deputies, deputies, secretaries, secretaries. Well, Congresswoman Roldán... well, today Congresswoman Roldán, another day Congresswoman Beltran, because the truth is that it's more of the same. What you asked today had already been asked by Mrs Beltrán, and you will continue to ask, because this is her way of doing politics, to repeat herself in that you use later to make her political speech. Because what does not interest you is transparency, what interests you is that through the concept of transparency they can make their political speech. Today we are once again presented with a new question which puts on the table transparency or, in this case, the wilful lack of transparency, or, in any case, what I might say is this wilful question to make his political speech. In July you already asked an oral question – if I don't remember badly, you also put an inquiry – and they'll answer as they please. And I didn't just ask them to respond as they do, but I invited them to come to the department and teach them how to access the transparency portal, they can find all the information published, because, precisely, the one that has this department is that it makes the information available, not just you, not just you, that block the general government's administrative services by making certain names – and then I won't give examples – but you are available to everyone, because the information is everyone's, not just your party. Precisely, the intervention of July was an inquiry into the misinformation and lack of transparency in the performance of the Government of the Generality abroad, and precisely in that inquiry they spoke absolutely less of transparency. It is their modus operandi: use the concept of transparency to incorporate their political message. And today we haven't seen another clear example: you take advantage of transparency to talk about processes, to talk about delegations, to talk about Diplomat, etc. They confide in the terms, and, therefore, what they do, end up doing, is devaluing, distorting the concept of transparency. In fact, the motion that followed in that question had nothing to do with transparency. I invite you to check it out. If you read it and you see that this young man who came from an inquiry into transparency doesn't really count on transparency. And not only that: that of the eight points that contained that young man, they only approved two of them, they only got enough support in two of the points. Something's gonna mean that. They do their reading, something they mean, because this Parliament represents the majority of the citizenry, and, therefore, if they only get support in two of the eight points, it means that the rest of parliamentary groups disagree with their concept of transparency. Well, we're being questioned again today, in this case about transparency. What should we expect from this inquiry? Will you bring this inquiry to a constructive proposal? Will you use this inquiry to improve, to bring something to society? Do you know what's going on? That with you there's nothing to discuss, nothing to discuss, because the only one they're doing is taking advantage of what's going on in this room to make his speech, his political speech. And do you know what's going on? That this opposition, this way of making opposition, serves neither its voters nor its citizens in general. Therefore, they do a weak favor not only to their voters, but to the whole society. Now I'll give you an example. His initiations end up being a blockage for the Administration of the Generality. You, with your initials, saturate through written questions, saturate the Administration's services through your requests for information. I repeat, an information that is published through the government portals, and that, another time, I invite you to visit the department and explain how it is navigated through the transparency portal. Since our department we have responded 457 requests for information from all parliamentary groups in this chamber – 457. Do you know how many Ciutadans, these 457? Do you know how many Citizens he's done? Four hundred_Fifty-six; that is to say, all but one have been initial formulations for Ciutadans. And not only that, but most are repetitive – most are repetitive – and therefore have no sense. And the answer ends up feeling the same for most initiates. Therefore, they tell us the advice of opacity. A councillor who answers 457 requests for information in this parliamentary exercise I believe is not an opacity councillor. I asked them in July, and now I ask them again, in July. What are these initials for? What do you need them for? Will they serve to make some kind of constructive proposal? Will they serve to give the government a boost, which is what you ask as the main opposition group, which they so like to name themselves? Is that going to be a government move? It won't do any good for anything. This will simply serve to fill some of the headlines in the diary. I insist on blocking public administration. The Department of Foreign Affairs has two people working exclusively for you, working exclusively for Ciutadans, answer their questions. The 90_percent of his day is dedicated to his parliamentary initiations, to his questions. Do you always talk about the good management of public services, of public resources, that in these plenarys of general policy you ask us to prioritize resources, you consider it opportune that the department should devote two people to answering their questions, when they could dedicate themselves to doing many other things? That, for the sake of doubt, is not political; that, for the sake of doubt, is not proposed. Today, we are told today that the government is violating the right to access public information and that this week they have made a letter, a complaint, a letter to make a complaint to the defender of the European people. Well, they're on his right, I'd just miss it. I accompany this letter of petitions that they have formulated and explain to them that most of these petitions – indeed, all – have been answered, and most are repetitive questions. I'll remind you of Parliament's rules: say in your second title, which guarantees the right of access to information from Members of Parliament, but it also backs up some guiding principles, huh? They are part of the Code of Conduct for Members of Parliament. Specifically, Article 14.1 states: "The exercise of the mandate shall be governed by the principles of integrity, honesty, transparency, diligence, austerity, selfless action, responsibility and respect for the citizen and the parliamentary institution. Entire. Who are you to apply to your questions, when you go out for this filter to the press? Who respects you for the parliamentary institution when you're precisely abusing these parliamentary mechanisms? What austerity do you show to the people of the department when two people work exclusively for you? Is that austerity? Is that the concept you have for austerity? Look, I'll remind you, I told you in July, and I'll tell you again: politics is a public service, so politics is designed, because you give this public service, because you're at the disposal of our citizens, and so I want to exercise it responsibly, this service. The Parliament, today, this hemisphere, is always the institution where it is debated and works to improve society, it is not that chamber that is used to obstruct government action, it is not that chamber that is used to obstruct the Administration and, ultimately, to obstruct the country. But I already know that today with these arguments we won't convince her – we won't convince her – and with a lot of information that we facilitate them, we won't convince her. In fact, we don't believe in transparency and we don't make the banner of transparency, because we don't really do it for you, but we do it for our own conviction, because we're really transparent for conviction, because we understand that transparency is one of the foundational pillars of any government, of a democratic government like ours. Because transparency is not only accountable to some of the parliamentary groups, transparency is voluntary, transparency is an essential value for any democratic system. In any case, I will have the opportunity to expand my intervention, but what I am telling you very clearly is that from our department, from the first day, not only since I have been in charge of the department, but at other times, we have always encouraged active advertising. Active means it's not just for you, advertising. The information is in the service of all citizens. We have always guaranteed the right of access to information and we have always guaranteed the right of access to open data, and proof of that is that during the management of the pandemic we were an example at the time of publishing the data. Therefore, we do not have to add anything, because we have everything published, we have published data on travel, we have published data on expenses, on contracts, on groups of interest, on all those activities that we do from the department, which you probably cannot say the same where you govern, sure you cannot say it, because, in fact, you are not able to be transparent with your internal procedures as you did. In any case, and to finish, precisely today, instead of asking transparency here, in this hemisphere, to the Government of the Generality, it may be that it asks transparency to one of the main institutions of the State, which has had to be the Swiss justice that demands transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, has the word the deputy Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.66.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Well, nothing new. You have not answered anything at all, any of the specific questions I have asked you. I asked you about your agenda as a counselor, asked you about the Diplomat, asked you about delegations abroad, what agenda you have, what you are dedicated to, asked you also about those supposed ambassadors you have for the world talking bad about Spain. I have more questions to ask you, you have answered absolutely none. In addition, you have acknowledged here, and I thank you too, that my partner Susana Beltrán has had enough to ask you, and that I have to come here again today to ask you why you do not answer any questions. For example, I would also like to ask you about the recruitment of these lobbies abroad, which we have also asked on several occasions and which you do not answer either. What do they do? What do they do? To spread lies, to buy wills in favor of the cause? I hope, please, that you will answer me on this second speaking time. I will also thank you because you yourself have acknowledged the great work that my parliamentary group does, that we are the group that makes the most proposals, and yes, that you ask the Government the most questions, because it is our job and, of course, that we are going to do it. I insist, they won't deter us by giving us time with the answers. And the more you avoid answering those questions, the more we will insist. Why? Because behind this lack of transparency is hidden the real action of this government – the real action of this government – which is not to care for the interests of all Catalans. You said here that this government is transparent by definition. Man, yes, this government is transparent, because they are not barely seen; neither are they being governed, nor are they being defended by the interests of Catalans, nor are they being managed by this crisis with which they are falling, Mr Solé. I am very pleased that you boast of that transparency of the Government when, I insist, I have put specific cases to you. For example, he has also told you about the Department of Education, which has only given me time to talk about linguistic projects, but it is that we also have the subject of schools attached to Ómnium Cultural, which, precisely this week in a control session, we have been able to ask about this subject, and you know why we have been able to ask? Because we've been asked an extra question about the quota we have as a group because you don't give this information. Because we have been asking about these centers that are attached to Ómnium for a year now, because families have a right to know what their money is being spent on and to what centers their children go to and what policies these centers follow. That, by the way, as a result of this question, you know that a lot of families are asking us if we can somehow find out if their centers are attached or not to Ómnium Cultural. That is, not only does he deny information to the opposition deputies, but they also deny it to the parents, they also deny it to the families and, ultimately, they hide this information from the citizenry. That's all right. Let's see if they answer us at once instead of putting so much medal here of transparency. More subjects in education that, in truth, cry out to heaven. Associacions Federades de Famílies d'Alumnes de Catalunya has also had to complain to the Commission for Guarantee of Access to Public Information because the department refused to give them the list of intensive support facilities for schooling, which, as you will know, this is basic for the schooling of students with needs. I mean, you guys fill your mouth here talking about inclusive school, but inclusive school doesn't work and that's why you don't want to give that information, so we don't know what gaps you also have in this regard. More examples also of lack of transparency. For example, in the Department of Justice. Mrs. Capella, who was just a little while ago, was here, in this very rostrum, bragging about how the government strictly complies with the laws. Hey, please – please. That's all right. Look, we asked... for example, one of the questions we asked was the visits to the prisoners in the authorities' process. I asked this question myself to Mrs Capella for land, sea and air: in writing, oral in committee, oral here in this plenary and she never answered me. We again applied for amparo from the Bureau, we were granted. We were also given the reason by the transparency body. And yet Mrs Capella still ignores that right that we have and still does not give us this information. And what he ultimately told us was that this was against the protection of personal data. Well, then, I, there are things I don't understand, because, for example, Mr Torrent and President of Parliament did facilitate that schedule of visits to the Lledoners prison. So who here is in breach of the Data Protection Act? I say this to you: Mrs Capella, who is in breach of the duty to inform this opposition. More stuff. I..., will not give me time, because I insist that you do not stop violating our rights as opposition deputies. You're masters of concealing information. For what? For so as not to suffer the consequences of justice no more nor less – no more nor less. And with this, what they're trying to cover up is the corruption that's always splashed this government and the previous ones. You've always had this way of running. What happens is they didn't have a problem, and that problem has a name and it's called Citizens and we're going to keep asking until we know the truth. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.68.0	Mrs. Roldán, I made you an offer today: I invited you to talk about the transparency of one of the institutions in this State and for which thousands of people are out here in Parliament today, and you have been silently administered. What is transparency of one color and transparency of another color? That we're not all the same before transparency and justice? What are you afraid you don't want to deal with? I mean, what's to be the Swiss justice that makes one of the state's institutions transparent to you that doesn't worry them? Doesn't that concern you? Well, I'm not going to go into the issues that you've raised because, as I said, we have returned from the department in an extended way and not just to you, but because our principle of active advertising is to give an answer to everyone, to all citizens, not just to you, who insist on assessing their management capacity as an opposition group based on the number of initiatives they formulate and I think this is not a very good criterion. He has insisted on the subject of linguistic projects and I will not be the one to discuss the subject of education, unfortunately, as you know, it is a subject that also generates a great deal of interest. But what is certain is that you, through your actions, from your incursions into the Department of Education and the institutes, have created a fracture; you have created a fracture in the educational centres and you know it – and you know it – by posing names and surnames of teachers, professionals, who do their job well every day. And, therefore, from here a support letter to all this collection, and more during these days. He also talks to us about United Nations, and he always takes advantage of this faristol to say that the Government of the Generality has bought United Nations so that his group of arbitrary arrests formulated an opinion or a report in which he posed in question the commitment of the State or the action of the State at the time of the liberation of political prisoners. And they tell us we tried to buy it. Do you believe that an institution like United Nations can be purchased from a contribution from the Government of the Generality? It turns out that you have in question the one hundred and fifty thousand euros that the Government of the Generality has perhaps contributed to this year and are oblivious to the 1,6 million euros that the Government of the State has contributed to this very institution this past year. Therefore, be consistent, be responsible, and when you ask for information, contrast it; contrast it, because many times you see the praise. You also take advantage of transparency to question the external action of the Government of the Generality. Look, what I can tell you is that the generality's outside action is perfectly legitimate. The generality's external action is acknowledged. And you'll say to me: "Oh, there's a feeling... Yes, it turns out that the Constitutional Court's judgment recognizes the generality's skills in long-term external action, because external action allows us to be present in the world. His governance model is to look at himself, look at himself, and therefore not to internationalize, because it seems to him that everything they do is fine, but the way to hear the government's external action is to be fully interconnected. And we don't just say it to ourselves, but you say it to most of this country's citizens. The majority of citizens of this country, 80_percent of the citizens of this country, demand external action from the government of the strong Generality; ask for strong delegations, which allow us to interrelate with the outside. And precisely for this reason, and taking advantage of the advent, last week we presented the opening of three delegations. Precisely in time of complexity, in time of Covid, is when we must put the best of ourselves. Therefore, do not use transparency to make this speech, because it is the praise. We, like the Government of the Generality, as the Department of Foreign Affairs, but also of Transparency, have transparency as one of the basic pillars of our governance. You will find all the information in the open portal of the Generalitat, not only you, but all the citizens. And, therefore, I, another time, and I finish my words inviting you to come to the department and through the portal you will be able to see all this information that you ask for and that you only use repeatedly to make political speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[General debate on the health situation (continuation)]] [[255-00015/12]] We shall then proceed to the presentation and positioning of the motions for resolutions subsequent to the general debate on the health situation, between the ages and the ages. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of statements and votes on motions for resolutions shall be the order of submission to the Register. At the end of the speeches, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions together with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. Next, to defend the motions for resolutions tabled, we open a turn of action for a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five for the subgroup. It has the first word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.70.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, some of whom will say that I'm angry when I get to this faristol, but frankly, I don't know if it's easy for me to do it or want to do it. I can never greet the members of the government when I speak of Salut, when we speak of the health system, so neither the councillor, nor the president in office, nor the Lady Budo... Well, surely today they have interests and actions more important than talking about the health system. But, still, I will try to keep what I meant to say today, which is to recognize that today is a happy day, today is a day of satisfaction for this Parliament, for the Parliament of Catalonia, today is an important day for Catalonia and, undoubtedly, today is a good day for Citizens, because Citizens called this plenary monogram to talk about health news, to talk about what could happen on the subject of the coronavirus. And we did that in July, we urgently asked this House to debate all this and to avoid, to the extent possible, all these actions that had to be taken in Catalonia to undermine a little that was the second wave; for example, with entry to the schools, with entry to work after the summer..., with strong and cohesive approaches to transversal consensus policies, common and agreed to so as to prevent these effects being the least terrible possible. You also know how the health care system is. It's a health system that's already tense, and it's always when it's up in the winter, and so it's important to ease the health system as far as possible in the face of the winter. In this sense, I think we must congratulate each other, and that is why I congratulate you, so I see that there has certainly been this debate. Obviously, and so I will recognize, it is certain that at some point in the debate – as I do not think it should be in any other way – we have been critical of the citizens and other opposition groups with questions, pointing out issues that we believe were important at the time of representing the citizenry. And I think this has to be done without any kind of complex. Therefore, yes, the opposition has to do its job; yes, the opposition has to ask the Government what I consider opportune, and I believe that no one should deny this right to be able to ask questions that I consider, as Mrs Roldán has done, and I wish that you do so for a long time, and I believe that it is important that the press does its job, and that is why we thanked them for this work of transparency. And that's what we do in all spheres of politics. We will also do so, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, from the health system. This is our job. And this is the idea to keep doing it. Undoubtedly. That said, celebrate that we arrive and arrive today at great consensus. I think that this is a certainty for everyone, because there is no doubt that there are a lot of fears in Catalonia that they will surely separate us, a lot of them, but we also need to recognize, and that is why Mrs Espigares' usual speech – she says it and recognizes it – is true, we agree on a lot of issues and it is important that we do especially on health issues. That is why today is a great day for Catalonia, and that is why today will also be a great day for the Parliament of Catalonia, because we will achieve, as far as possible, to get ahead of the total practice of the motions for resolutions that you have presented, which we have also presented, and therefore it will be a great day to improve construction, to continue supporting the health system in general. That's why we've put forward proposals for a resolution, he was explaining them to you the other day. Some, therefore, were directed to recognize and dignify professional recognition. Thank you to all the professionals who have worked for the health system. But, as I said the other day, and today I repeat, thanks are necessary, but thanks are not enough. We have to do a lot more for all of them. Therefore, recognize and thank all professionals. To add to the condemnation of threats and attacks when the health professionals get them, to especially regret the contagions among the professionals. We want to expand, all of them, the professional seedlings. That's why I need to reverse the clippings. It is necessary to supplement those absences of the workers on vacation or when they are ill or quarantined and, therefore, to go to a model of consolidation of the seedlings of the Catalan Institute of Health. It is necessary to equate the ups and downs to the European mid-range. And finally, to dignify the work situations as well as those of the resident doctors, who are now vacant, or as all those collectors..., yesterday we attended Metges de Catalunya with meetings in this Parliament, which announce to us very vague ones and, therefore, can help them equally and in the same way with the workers, for example, therefore, of the health transport system. From primary care, we haven't talked much and often, and we all agree. So let's do it once and for all. Do we recognize and appreciate the health care pillar of primary care? Yes, but you need to get back local consultants, pick-up units, continuous service, which were shut down or which saw their schedule missed. We need to strengthen seedlings, to guarantee, for example, infirmary ration. So yes, I have to do it. Should we improve the readiness, therefore, of tests to improve the accessibility to tests? So, too. Should we give a fast access circuit, for example, to the mental and attention services? So, yes, we do. And what we do and establish is better fluid relationships between the vein representation, between patient associations and social entities. So, let's do it. And I must, of course, compliment many of the motions and motions for resolutions that we have made here, and also recognize the work and the task of the Ciutadans team, which has also driven them. For Ciutadans, the waiting list has always been a priority. Therefore, we have a plate of shock..., to prevent further enlargement of the waiting lists, to all levels: from primary to specialized attention, to hospitals, to external consultations, mental health, diagnostic tests, operating rooms, etc. I think we all agree that we need to find specific ways to get it. We talked a moment ago about transparency. So yes, we demand, we ask, the government more transparent also to the health system. It's super important, that. And work themes, for example, like the breast cancer prevention program. The other day, I said, what's going to happen to Catalonia right now with mom's cancer, when there's cracks stuck? Let's do it all together. Disabte we will commemorate the Day of Mental Health in Catalonia. We have said this many times, as we really take seriously what is happening in mental salvation. Thank you, Mrs Navarro, for pushing me. We have a proposal for an extensive resolution, which has been on the parliamentary agenda for a long time, with great uncertainty. I know that today, therefore, some proposals will not come out. In concrete terms, we were very constructive in matters of epidemiological vigilance, in matters of increasing the number of units of intensive care, of cleanness, but I know that including in a motion security issues, for example donating and facilitating and improving the security of the Squadre Mossos, will give problems. And if, moreover, we add to those fears that you know have distinguished us, that when some residents called for, begged for, help to improve the system of cleanness or disinfection and, in this case, they asked the government for help, in the affairs of the U.S.A.; therefore, I know that it will break us, but we will continue to defend it. You're also afraid of the gratuity of 061. Citizens of the first day asked and we are, therefore, happy to have succeeded. Finally, you're afraid of the residences of great people. It is important to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination; it is also important to ensure the safety of families in information issues. MPs and MPs, I just have words of gratitude today for the efforts we have all made to get these motions for resolution forward. I think we are at an important time of consensus, especially on the health system. I want to give a special message of gratitude to my fellow workers, to the deputies of my team and to the advisers who work, therefore, in a very hard and intense way to get this job to come to a good place, as it will arrive, I am sure, today. And finally, a message I think it's important that we don't lower the guard. And I think that there is, or is not, a state of alarm; there is or is no confinement; there is or is not a political understanding for very concrete situations; it is important that we do send a message of special caution: residences, great people, patients, sick people, watch very much, because this winter will be virologically complicated and it is important that everyone watches very much, and we thank and thank very much the work of health workers, who will always be to look after us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Marta Moreta has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.72.0	Thank you, President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. First of all, my intervention today, as my partner Assumpta Escarp did, had a record of the victims of Covid-19, the families and friends, and made a clear recognition of the efforts of the professionals who struggle every day to fight this pandemic. Today we have the opportunity to speak of another moment of salvation. In the three full specifications that have been made Socialist Group and Forward Units has made proposals for resolution, many of them approved. It will also do so in this plenary addressing the urgency of the pandemic, proposals for returning to normal care or attending to professionals. We would all agree that the objective is to achieve a stronger health system, which includes all its conjunction with economic, research and research measures; with social measures, technological advances and mechanisms that strengthen the overall health system. Eight months ago we were living in a devastating pandemic and it is obvious that we had to reorient, program and adapt the system to the hard consequences of the Covid. But it is not less certain that it has been years since the independent governments have systematically detailed our health system and left a structure that is very precarious, weak and lacking in many ways. Not only has the level of investment in social policies not recovered, but more than €3,000_million in salvation has been spread, which means a reduction of 27_per_cent. Do you intend to convene the parliamentary groups to establish the salvation pact proposed by President Torra, Councillor? We need a pact, we need assumptions, we need professionals, we need primary education and we need to strengthen the public. We agree, we talk, and from the experts' document, but not only with this, we come to agreements. We're four months away from a few elections, and citizens don't think about who they're going to win, think about and suffer for their salvation, for their surroundings, if they can go to work or go to school, and how they'll take care of the big ones. We're at the gates of another wave of midwives and midwives, this time in primary school. We're living the MIR wave. A wave of health transport workers and workers has begun. What else is going to happen? This is his style, the denial of transparency and the dialog, the denial of consent for the salvation and well-being of the citizens. And speaking of transparency: they don't think we remember Ferrovial's contract, almost 18_million euros. What a shame. You know, the people calling 061 don't have an answer? Remember your own words that say: "We will leave the contract of Ferrovial operating through the company Ferroser without effect. Where are the trackers? From the month of June that echo the words of the Vergés Constellera: "We are a student as it is possible to reverse the contract with Ferrovial. And here we are. These words have been winded. And while the railway company has welcomed, on 31 August, all its eventuals of 061. There is such an emergency phone crash that every day a thousand phone calls are lost. He knows we have a system every day that's more inaccessible. The primary is overcrowded and they're still waiting for backup. That, Counselor, is a desir. Professionals can't take it anymore, they're tired. Tired of promises, the good will came to pass. The health world saw a continuous wave of labor stress. There is a true collapsing situation because the work has quadrupled. Who takes care of the salvation of the professionals, counselor? They're fed up, they're fed up with so many promises. And if not, read the letter that came to the council of a primary school. There is a lack of forecasting of contracts, and therefore, as you know, a call for mobilizations of nurses' professionals is not ruled out. Do you know that the computer systems of the health system don't work? Do you know that there are metgeses and metges who have to pass Covid contacts from one database to the other because they are not linked or coordinated? We should already have an integrated digital system, especially in the primary. The bureaucracy is eating the hours above the patient's care pocket. Today, my parliamentary group is resubmitting a follow-up of proposals for resolutions which take as a backbone the economic needs of the health system, without leaving aside the search-for-health projects that must allow the continuity of these groups, which obviously target at least EUR 15_million. Or, as I mentioned earlier, the difficult problems detected in the railway company, and for this reason we propose to open an information dispatcher and determine its responsibilities. Also, a stable negotiation framework with Cat Salut's presence with the resident intermethod platform must be established to advance in the best of its training, work and pay conditions, and to increase the infirmary rate to bring us closer to the percentages of the European Union. And all this will not be possible without the allocation of sufficient economic resources. Our proposals are held especially in the primary, and this is why a battery of proposals such as the reopening of primary care centres and the local defence consultants in the territory that are still closed are being put in place. Or recover the presenceality in primary care centers for the follow-up of chronicity and the attention of other non-Covid pathologies. It is necessary in healthcare care to carry out a study of waiting lists in order to prioritize those interventions and complementary tests that have been updated for Covid, patients at most risk. And let us not forget mental salvation, because it is essential to make a specific program of follow-up of the affectation and the emotional consequences of the great people, effects of the pandemic and the loneliness that causes the isolation. We need to build a new health system, and that is why we need to establish the organizational and coordination mechanisms necessary to be able to achieve a social and health care that the person has in the center and that guarantees care to the length of his life. Moreover, we should establish and prioritize a system that allows us to work with the best financing mechanisms. On the digital transformation of the health care system I will hold on more slowly. Because it is necessary to present as the project of European financing the digital transformation of the Catalan health system, advancing to the use of telemedicine in cross-sectoral digital projects between the spheres of health and social. And, Counselor, we have to put the Radar Covid app all the time out. Is it so complicated? If we're the only community that hasn't stepped in, it's that we can't hear... And on the social and health residential system, it is necessary to clarify the many protocols that exist for the prevention of new outbreaks of the Covid-19 in the area of the residences of large people and people with disabilities. It is necessary to clarify which are the conditions for re-visiting family members, the isolation and transfer of residents both to the residence and to the hospital or to the socio-sanitary centres. Or knowing clearly who are the admission criteria for our entries. Continuing training in and professionals, and storage and use of self-protection material. And I would like to end with some of the proposals that we are also putting forward on the better coordination of the Covid-19 management to the educational centers with the assemblies. Because coordination between the Health Department and the different assemblies needs to be improved. And it must be possible to ensure that every municipal government knows in real time or a maximum of 24 hours the educational centres and the groups and pupils and teachers in quarantine or in kindergarten, as well as the positive cases detected in the educational field. The Traça Covid programme must be incorporated into the municipal camp where each registered educational centre is involved to facilitate the dissemination of information. MPs and MPs, prevent, detect, test, follow, wing, quarantine, with consent, with dialogue and transparency. This is one of the priorities to overcome this virus. We have already announced that we will vote against all the motions for resolutions of the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. Because we don't vote for them, they don't wear them, they don't fill them out. Therefore, we will vote against them. This is a government that needs the resolutions that are approved. We're tired. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. We don't deserve this long-running execution that is in the electoral race and that doesn't dialogue or agree and continues to confront with no benefits for Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.74.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies and deputies, we are at the end of the legislature. We wish and hope that it will also be a final stage. But, in addition, we are with a government in office that will last four_months, because you have decided that in account of lasting the twenty-three days that would be the normal thing that a government in office would last before an election call, in this case it would last four_months. Therefore, they have their functions limited and we are moving from a pandemic and with important health system problems, which we have already had before, but which have worsened with this pandemic. Therefore, we have chosen to make some sensile – sensile – resolution proposals that express principles and that express the main elements of the problems that our health system suffers, and that we understand that they are the main problems. We have presented – and I think it has been common, too – a motion for a resolution to reiterate our gratitude to all the staff who have worked intensively against this pandemic during the first few months, but who are continuing to do so now and intensively. We have also tabled another motion for a resolution referring to the work done by the Committee of Experts on the document of the thirty measures to strengthen the health system. We ask the Government that, in some way, the assumption, the study, the work – we know they are doing it – but we believe that it was a good thing to express Parliament's position with thanks to the work prepared for this committee of experts. And from here on, we are talking about concrete and timely issues such as, for example, that of 061, which has already been mentioned. It is essential to take short-term measures and look at the mid-terms, too, so that we do not go back to what happened to us in relation to 061. It is necessary to take action, too, for what it does to primary care. It is important that we do not forget the specialized attention and that we do not forget the waiting lists, the data to be able to know how they are evolving or the measures that can be taken to prevent the deterioration that has suffered, the result of the situation that we have experienced, from continuing to prolong over time. And, therefore, we are still able to stop this deterioration of the waiting lists. And in any case, if possible, and as good as that, try to recover part of the activity that was lost during this pandemic. We also refer to the situation of the faculty, we refer specifically, in the case of the MIR, that it is a question that concerns us now, but we also refer to the royal decree of the Government of the State that says that you are without speciality and without place of residence, so that you can make the specialties can be contracted. Or that of others without approved titles can also be contracted. We believe that the solution does not pass through here, but that, in any case, the solution passes, on the one hand, to expand the number of MIR places, to train more specialists, who are the ones who need public health, and, on the other hand, to speed up the homologation procedures of the specialist titles of those extra-Community titles that are waiting for this approval. Women also refer to the social and health care needed, to the social and health care needs of the whole world of residences for the impact this disease has had on residents and large people. And, from the point of view, also, purpose, we ask them not to make decisions, but to assess the possibility that these health facilities that we have distributed throughout the territory equitably and that are 3,200 led by health professionals can participate in a more intense way, as they have already done in the past with the task that sees us in the future, in the clutches or in vaccination tasks. And I end up with two more general reflections that somehow direct the positioning to the rest of the group's resolution proposals. One first. As a guarantee of public salvation, we have always been in favour of using all available resources. And that means using all the resources of public sanitation, but also the resources of private sanitation. In this sense, we do not have any complex to say that this must be so and that we value positively the participation and the contest of private sanitation to guarantee the public salvation of the city council. And a_second element. We have insisted many times that the Government of the Generality must make presupposed efforts to improve the presuppositions of salvation. Why? Because we are aware that important reforms are needed in the health system. But they are important structurally. I mean, they're not important right now, today, because there's a pandemic. No, they're important today, tomorrow, the year you see, the other, the other and the other. Therefore, they are structural reforms, and in order to make structural reforms we cannot use conjunctural resources that come, for example, for the Covid, or that can come from European foundations or that follow – I have just then, President – or that come from debt; they must be resources, also, structural. That is why it is essential for the government to make an effort in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.75.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Erra has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.76.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, MPs and MPs: the Covid-19 pandemic and the health, economic and social crisis that has provoked have caused the response of the world's security governments to complex challenges. This has been repeated in this faristol many times since March. But that's not why it's so important for us to say it again. From here on out, we want to show our congratulations and gratitude to all health professionals for their tireless pocket all this time and that they have completed with great quality health care. Now, in Catalonia, this pandemic has come to grips, first of all and as always, with the recent pace of the Spanish State, which is not able to recognize that people's problems are solved much better from closeness and from knowledge. With that, you can always count on it. And for more progressive coalition government proclamations that we need to feel, LOAPA, in this pandemic case, has come from the left. And, of course, he has also played a paper and a shameful role in the judicial arm of the State, always willing to serve the interests of the Spanish unit in contradiction with the defense of the fundamental rights of democratic societies. President Torra's disqualification from managing a pandemic that has put the world out of control is not only a very serious violation of the civil and political rights of Catalans and Catalans, but also a major irresponsibility. They have disabled a president who wears since March leaving his hair to save lives and the Catalan economy. What shame so great a State that acts like this. For this reason, and in this monographic debate on the Covid, I want to give more thanks to President Torra on behalf of the entire Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. And now, entering into the bulk of the motions for resolutions, my parliamentary group, as you know, has not presented fifteen, together with the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and two of our own, which we have prepared with the will to build great consensus in this Parliament in the field of salvation and which we think is what the citizens of this country deserve at this time. We revalue, because we have been the first to claim it, to the Spanish State, decentralized governance, to the most decentralized possible. I have said this to the principle of my intervention, because from the nearness it has more real knowledge of the needs of the citizens and, as we demonstrate to the motion for a resolution, so we can provide a much more accurate response. For this reason, we also call for continued collaboration, and as is done, with municipal and supra-municipal administrations, social workers and other institutions which are an essential part of health care activities with the aim of giving an excellent response to our citizens and citizens. We are also aware that the management of this pandemic so far leaves us with a series of knowledge and insights that we can incorporate so that we can act much better. For this reason, we now want to draw up an agenda for the transformation of the health system that takes into account the thirty proposals contained in the document of the Committee of Experts for the transformation of the public health system and others that have arrived from the health and social sector, especially those who are at the edge of the cano, to strengthen the health system. We are aware that we are experiencing a health crisis, and we are also experiencing a climate crisis that also has consequences for the salvation of our citizens. We are focusing on this issue, because we believe that the promotion of health and the impact of many conditions such as climate change, excess, malnutrition and aging should be placed at the centre of government policy planning. We also make a recognizance of the work of the primary care professionals, spearhead that the health system, and it's not an empty recognizance. We want a toilet nearby. That's why we want to increase human, material and technological resources to meet demand growing at this level of care, resume face-to-face CAP and consulting, and maintain primary care in residences. And obviously we're not just talking about primary education, we recognize the pocket of all professionals in the health care system, who guarantee quality people's attention. To recognize your pocket is, above all, to guarantee your labor rights and your working conditions and to give them all the support. We are also transferring this to the working conditions of the health transport workers or the RIM, to whom we give full support in their applications. Outside the health field, we also highlight the pocket of the teachers in the school tornado. The school, in our country, is a guarantor of social cohesion and we can't afford to have a moment like this that's not working properly. We need open and secure schools, which is why we have also put forward proposals in this sense. Now, we also place the focus in the State, in the sense that it must ensure the validity of the ERTOs until June 2021 and it must necessarily strengthen the SEPE and give out to pending services and solve the many errors that result in economic problems for many families. Cal, also, in the area of family reconciliation, that is the rules of the time-delay for temporary incapacity for working persons with underage children in school when there is a Romanesque at home per quarantine, as President Torra has many times claimed in this Parliament. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution for Catalonia which sets out what is a majority consensus for Catalan society: research. Research is a basic point at the time of facing the health crisis; research is a social and economic policy. We want to encourage it, and this is translated into assumptions to be able, for example, to assess the psychosocial damage caused by Covid-19, with something important. And, last but not least, and for us, too, putting the focus on how it has affected the situation caused by the pandemic in the right in women. During the confinement there was an increase of 88_per_cent in phone calls against male violence due to the obligation to live with the attacker and the impossibility of contacting other people. A very serious situation. In this sense, we are making a proposal that lowers the price to ensure the safety of women with all the necessary resources, improve support networks and strengthen accompanying resources, so that the right to access sexual and reproductive health services is guaranteed. This, therefore, would be a synthesis of the proposals that we bring to approval and simply close the work that Congressman Lluís Guinó has done. With all this thanks to everyone for the debate and for the consensus that I hope will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, that the paragraph deputy Ms Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.78.0	Good morning, counselors, deputies and deputies. Look, we don't think it's a big day today, we're frustrated by this plenary: frustrated by the debate you're having on time and on a scale, with zero self-criticism from the government and with little proposal for foundations in general and frustrated also especially by the resolutions with which the tank is. I refer especially to those of the support groups to the Government. We now have three errand proceedings: the MIR, which starts today from the sanitary transport and the call for the coming week of primary care doctors and midwives. Three conflicts that express three great deficiencies of our health system, that already existed before the pandemic but that burst out of everything or made themselves bigger with the coronavirus. On one side, the poor working conditions of the system staff, until we are expelling the professionals to catch accounts. On the other hand, the effect of retailing, especially at the primary and at the base of the system, which was already weak, but which has been particularly weakened in later years. And on the other hand, the effect of the commercialization of the services. It is the case of the health transport, in its bulk, contracted to enterprises of goods with any kind of lucre that have no scruples to save under or conditions of occupational safety in situations like that of the coronavirus in order not to fail to have winnings. Today the support groups to the Government begin their joint proposals with a resolution on sunny learning – it is the title of the resolution – in the management of the pandemic, it is understood. There is nothing about working conditions, or about primary education, or about management models in these sunny learnings. Second resolution: how to strengthen public salvation. And they include a point of making a new project – they have now corrected it, "pre-project, it's the same – of public contract that they explain that it's also for the health service. It's a statement of principles. A new Aragonese law. We have already told them in the debate on the Aragonese Law, which fell into this Parliament and we will tell them as many times as we can: what is first to strengthen direct management; then, to make a law of concertation because what cannot be done justifiably from the public sector can be done with concertation, but above all, what is done with these two main and first powers, when our parents are born, is to demerchantize public services. You, nothing in the proposals to reverse externalisations, nothing in the regular concertation; not in the least. In change, yes a new contract law. They're not after this lesson either. With these conclusions or lessons learned and proposals to strengthen public health with which the whole structure of his proposals begins, it is natural that his later proposal for a resolution, which is entitled ‘Shared replies of the future, neither say anything about the lack of professionals nor about the need for better working conditions or about the model of governance management. We will be kind and appreciate the rest of the points that lie in this later resolution on the challenges of the future and that they are shared, and we will abstain. But obviously, in the first two, we will vote against them. And since we're doing this little explanation of vote, the advances that we'll approve most of the complaints that they make to the state government, those that make fair proposals and that we share. But once more they show us how ambitious and concrete they come to be when they ask for things from the Government of the State and how little it is when they try to do it from their Government, when, moreover, it is close to those parliamentary groups that are from the Parliament of Catalonia to control and propose things to the Government of the Government in this chamber. A cynical hair, all folded. As, for example, proposal number 10 – important – in what is the whole solution to the infra-financing of the Catalan health system that is covered from transfers from the State, not a single sentence or proposal in which it assumes that there is also scope to cover with own fiscal capacity. Honestly, it's the greatest show of dependence on a government that claims independence. With regard to the proposals of the other groups, we will approve the majority, except those that we clearly compare in models, especially some of the Ciutadans Group or the People's Party. Allow me to make a small defence of our proposals, which we basically defended in the debate on Tuesday and in the debate on December, coherent with everything we have already made constructive contributions in that debate, constructive with criticism of foundations. They are proposed to transform the problems that the public health system in Catalonia has already been facing and that have worsened with the pandemic. Proposals to address the need for more resources. We have an infra-financing and that's why we have to lay down all the lives from which we take them, all of them; don't forget one and just sort out another. It can dignify the working conditions of those who care for them and meet the demands of those who are now making them on the street. It may clarify the management of the system and ensure public control and effectiveness of all services and resources. And we made a concrete proposal, in this sense. We need to strengthen public health policies, obviously, mental health policies – also proposed – and genuine coordination of health and social systems. And we need to capture structures, priorities and uses so that primary and community care is the central focus of the system. Allow me a concrete incis, also included in our proposals, and it is that, now and today, this of making the central axis of the system the primary means already putting all that we need to reopen all heads and local consultancies, to recover face-to-face assistance in conditions, with guarantees, with certainty, obviously, but to recover it, and the times of attention previewed to the pandemic and previewed to the retail. They've got people tearing him out of the territory, claiming him with firm withdrawals, with concentration, with local motions. All our support and special recognition to all these people who organize, self-organize and claim for their CAP, which is their heritage. People's heritage is our public servants, they're our public servants. And a recognizance, if we may, as the show of all this city to Catalonia that is organized, to the users of the CAP of the barri de Bonavista de Tarragona, that you make cold, rain or heat, every divender since the month of June they are claiming to recover the attention twenty-four hours to their ambulances and that this summer they have suffered difficult situations of feeling of carelessness. One last thought. Two last thoughts. Hardly this government will complete everything we approve today, not just because they're working, but because what they've done over the past few years is proof that they don't usually complete what's approved in this Parliament. And as it shows a small boto, of those that for small, so small, unworthy. In point 2.e of the first resolution of the Republican Left Group, in this case of Republican Left, they say: « Vetllar so that the expendor machines located in public services, especially those linked to health, contain only healthy products. Look, I don't know how many months – years – we approved with a member of my parliamentary group this much more, much thicker, to promote healthy food. Is that even possible? That there are no non-healthy foods in the health-related public service machinery? And that couldn't be done? It was a frustrating ple. Much to strengthen this system that expels professionals, that expels citizens from the private and very few people to truly transform this system. But in order to try to get something good out of here at least, we understand that it will not be complete all that we will approve today, beyond all that we will vote from here to a sitting room, we ask, counsel, emergency two things – emergency. The first, they continue to negotiate with political leaders with the representatives of these three waves that keep the country's health sector at bay. And they stop loving each other after bad negotiators and they don't show any willingness to agree. And another urgent request: the primary does not stand. The primary professionals won't stand a new Covid wave. If there is no transformation into a march, that there will be no radical bet, that means approach from the point of view of problems, as at least, I avoid that the primary smiles at all. The base of the system is making water and will not endure this winter, their professionals tell us. So, please, we're doing everything we can, all the reinforcements we can in the first place urgently, because we're looking for the whole system, if we're looking for its base. And then it will be very difficult to rebuild on a swampy land where the bases have already fallen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.80.0	Today is one of the days of the Catalan Countries, October 9, Day of the Valencia Country, and we want to remember what is the characteristic of this year's Day of the Valencia Country that is, for one band, or more clearly, the characteristic in the context that is given that it is, for one band, the pandemic, but, for another band, also the memory; memory of king and four-barred son that many have wanted; indeed, they have murdered, but we want to remember. Assassination Miquel Grau, militant of the communist movement; murdered Guillem Agulló, militant independenceist– thanks, Carmel and Guillem and family to never forget your struggle–, and murdered Davide, militant anti-feixist. Some and some of us also saw how the apparatus of the Spanish State followed this repression, or even before in some cases, in some other cases during and in other cases afterwards, those that were the active subjects of their assassinations, which was the extreme right. Some political fans with the murder. We want to do politics in life and for life. And that is also the object of this monogram that we have, of life and of life worthy. We cannot have quality public sanitation, or on the contrary, we cannot have a decent life, if we do not have quality public sanitation. What are we up to? Don't leave anything behind. In order to have this public health of quality, we need, in any case, to reverse the model and, therefore, we have three proposals for resolution. A first one that said for the «conjunct of public sanitation, managed one hundred_per_cent public and provided one hundred_per_cent public. We also plant it for the residents of large people and we plant it for the health transport. Counselor, today we have a call for health transport. The other day he was told that maybe you weren't the cause of the wave, but you can be part of the solution and if you don't assume that it's part of the solution, you'll end up feeling part of the problem. And, therefore, we expressly ask you to commit yourself. That's what we're asking in a motion for a resolution. We also have another space, which is the one of them and the MIRs, those that are already present from our sanitarium and that will be future and that, therefore, cannot continue to feel mileurist workers, workers without rest, workers without training. And we ask him expressly and is the object of the motion for a resolution, that the department incorporate a person into the negotiation process to represent the department. And we think that this would be voted for by all the groups in this chamber, and so could the governing groups, it couldn't be any other way. The third gap we find, that of doctors and doctors, the essence of what is the public health system, the set of workers and workers. If these collections are all about this, it's obvious that we find ourselves absolutely collapsed. And we also ask you, counsel, if there are no solutions to this, clear and active solutions, what we will find – the result of the effects of the pandemic and the result of abandonment and degradation of public health – will be a much greater collapsing than we have experienced in the past few months. We make maximum proposals, but we also make proposals from those we consider to be minimal and urgent. We are essentially betting for the primary to give solutions and we are making a resolution proposal where we can say where we are going to get the answers. And we say: "We increase the IRPF's tax to whom it charges more than sixty thousand euros. We're in crisis. Those who charge more than EUR 60 thousand can contribute solidly to society in what is essential, which is sanitation and which is the primary to public sanitation, and so let's see where they stand and where they stand in an emerging way. Also today, there are two other areas in which we need to act as quickly as possible. The list of waiting lists, we can still increase the list of waiting lists – proposed resolution to respect –, and diem: and this is accompanied by the mother – proposed resolution that we also do – to improve the conditions of workers and workers, as the essentiality of the Catalan public health system. If we do not improve its conditions, we will not be able to resolve the situation of the Catalan public health system. And lastly, we made three motions for resolutions, the three behind them, two in feminist clau and one in class clau, or of social determinants of salvation. Feminist claus dues. The first, which makes reference, in any case, to obstetrics. We also want to say that when the men that we are activists of the UPC talk about the feminist key we have to do it in a subaltern way – some companies and companies have already felt me outside the Parliament say it, and also the deputies of this chamber – and we do so, and we do so with a recognition for our feminist companies, for the National Feminist Committee of the UPC, for the work that has been done in the past, that is being done in the present and that will be done in the future. But, still, it's my turn to explain, and I will. The second, too, in order to guarantee absolutely the right to abortion, at the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, for all women, whatever their administrative condition is. And the third, which are the social determinants of salvation. It's true that we all die, but it's true that in life we're not all the same. What makes us different, obviously, is the class, and, in relation to that, it also has to act salvation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.82.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, we started this plenary on Tuesday and we talked about translating social consensus into political consensus, and I think that most of the groups have come here with the ideological differences that we have, obviously – that's why we have different proposals – but with this general mark of recognizing what has gone well, where it can improve and what is the public health system that we want for the thirties. And that's where we went and where we celebrated, as Mr Soler said, that most groups wanted to, because it's what the sector wants, not that we mess with each other, not that we get the health system out of our heads, but that we keep them useful and help transform what we have consented to. Left Republican was talking about early management and that he wanted to be aware of everything that we didn't have after, despite the fact that there are people who say we don't make self-criticism. We did it here in previous motions, we did it in the House of Covid, we did it in the House of Residence, and we'll do it again, and we'll always do it that way, because Republican governance is this, it's being aware of what we've been wrong to improve, and so we'll keep doing it. And we have a motion for a resolution, of the few that will not be supported, or that you have all stated that you will not, that it is the advance management of a technical base, political decisions on a technical basis, with a specific strategy, and girls from Catalonia. I understand that the commons don't follow – I don't know if it's a support for re-centralisation again; I understand that Ciutadans and PSC don't follow – well, I understand..., I understand it within the political electoral campaign mark that we are in. But the only thing we're saying is that what we can't do here is what's going on in Madrid, that we let ourselves be carried by flags instead of listening to the technicians to make political decisions and do it from the proximity of the territory, which is who knows the situation. We also have some insights. And yes, and we're talking about taking advantage of all the structures that there are and strengthening public health, which we've been saying for a long time, that prevention is the key, and therefore also strengthening surveillance systems. And we're also talking about the education system, because despite the situation that has occurred to many countries and the uncertainties, which is what has been managed this summer, the whole government has been working because the classrooms are a safe space, and they are – and they are. And culture and each and every one of the areas have sectoral plans so that they can continue to develop activity in this country. As President Torra said, we cannot move forward without life and, therefore, it is important that we continue to learn how to live with the virus, which unfortunately will not go on its own days. And we've also talked about learning with residences, and with all of them and each of them. I will focus on four concrete areas, which are the priorities of Esquerra Republicana. The first, public salvation and life styles. We'll invest in prevention if we want to get out of this system based, above all, in hospitals. And we've said it many times, and we're going to do it and we're going to do it in the cross-sections, because that affects the whole town and all the councils, too. Second, and it's the most important pillar for us: labor rights, despite the fact that Esquerra didn't understand labor rights as early learning or as early management. No, no, it's just that we think it's so crucial that it's our own proposal. Labor rights are not a Covid learning. There is someone who has added to the problem we have with Covid, but this is a structural problem. And that's why this is the legislature that the most right jobs have returned to health care, despite the fact that there's someone you don't like. This is the legislature, and I'll tell you the times, the longer the labor rights have returned to health care. And that's enough? No, it's not enough. We need to keep working, because they're still in a precarious situation. There are the MIRs, and we have discussed this issue and we will support all the proposals from all the groups, as well as ours, which also proposes to move forward with the situation of the MIRs. But also with the conjunction of the meths and meths of Catalonia, who do an extraordinary job, and to define roles, and of the nursing prescription. Therefore, the part of professionals is a central axis of this legislature, not only the Government, but also the Parliament. We've shielded the DPOs, too, with the effort of companies that have been advancing in this line. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is obvious to place it in a proposal for its own resolution and in a structural environment in which we must move forward is to give it that support that it needs. The third major area is infra-financing, and that is why we have a motion for a resolution in this sense. We also did it in the general policy debate and we will continue to insist, despite the fact that there are those who do not like to listen to it. With the current funding we have in Catalonia, we cannot continue to support the public health system we want, and, therefore, or resources arrive..., and we agreed with all the groups in which it is important that these resources arrive. Therefore, we must also go and demand them. And that's why we support the CUP's proposal to be able to record higher returns and invest these money in public health. I'm also telling you, Congressman Vidal, and you know that we share a lot of this speech, as it should be, under the assumption. It is very nice to come here and make a motion for a resolution saying that it is necessary to do this, but at the time of truth the only groups that have been supporting the rickets to strengthen the public system were the common ones and the Left. You weren't there, in the negotiation of assumptions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm not mad. You weren't there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.83.0	Congressman, you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.84.0	...in the negotiation of assumptions. For a long time. [[Funnel veils]] If you really want this to happen, beyond the motions for resolutions, which you will find us, then it is also when there is an opportunity to do what we say here. And this is the scenario of the assumptions. And fourth, in demerchantization and strengthening the public health system. And here we will also give support to all the motions for resolutions that are fanciful in this sense. I've come back from the past: without the necessary funding, it's also difficult for us to move forward in this line, especially when more lessons are given to us who governs the Barcelona City Council and in the home care service take them to Clece to give them to businesses that tax in tax havens. Therefore, they do not make so much criticism of the Law of Contracts and help to make a proposal that advances in this line, because if we keep the same, they take Florentino to follow him giving to people who are in tax havens. And you know that. Therefore, if we really want to strengthen the public system, let us do it in truth and, therefore, let us legislate, which is what it is for us to do to this Parliament to shield these spaces. Look, we will support most of the proposals that are being made in this monographic plenary, and we do so because we are the first ones to talk about translating social consensus into political consensus, because Constable Vergés was the first to talk about an alliance for the health system, and because consensus is there, and so it seems to us that you have to make an effort to move forward on this line, and that's why we will give support. And the MP of the PSC asked the Government: "Does the Government intend to convene the pact? If I have to ask you if you think you are there, because we will give support to all the proposals that go in the line of making a national pact for salvation, but today you will repeat a whole red panel, you today vote that not to the health system, not to the Esquerra proposals, not to the government's proposals, do not make a mistake; you today say that not to the health system, that there is a need for consensus. And you know that. And it's more that they did it two weeks ago with the General Policy Plenary and it came out badly, and they did it by refraining from coming to President Torra's Plenary, and you decided to do anti-political, you decided not to be there or say not to everything. And that, it will already allow me, but the little recourse I have in politics reminded me of minority parties and out of politics, not the PSC. Therefore, while you are on the anti-policy side, while you are on the verge of making proposals for the system, you will find us face-to-face, and you will find us with all the opposition groups who have said that they want to be and that they want a pact for the system, that it is essential. Therefore, I conclude: we continue to translate this social consensus into political consensus. In Esquerra we will do these six_months by putting the foundations of the transformation agenda, which are priorities, and we will continue to be there to transform this consensus into the solution that the public health system needs to continue to be burdened. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This debate is over, and before we go to the polls, we'll do five minutes of time to finish technically adjusting the question of the votes. So, five minutes from now, I'll call them to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-09-6304.86.0	MPs, MPs, ask them to vaginate their scons. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to vote on all points of the order of the day that were about to be voted on and start with the motions. Specifically... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, that's right. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights (continuation)]] [[202-00078/12]] Before the motions, I forgive, the voting of the papers to the totality of the Proposition of Law of Creation of the Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights. [[Pause.]] So let's start with the vote on this item on the agenda, corresponding, I repeat, to the vote of the papers to the totality of the Proposal of the law of creation of the Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights. The vote begins. Total submissions have been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 94 against – correspondents to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics – and no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the education and planning of the 2020-2021 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00234/12]] Let's now vote on the agenda item, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the education and planning of the 2020-2021 school year. We vote, answering the separate voting petitions, points 1, 5 and 7. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 68 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—no abstention. We're voting points 2, 4 and 9. The vote begins. These points were approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 4 abstentions. We now vote on points 8, 11, 13 and 14. The vote begins. These points were approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the points of this young man now. The vote begins. The remaining points have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00237/12]] Let's now vote on the next item on the agenda, which is the 18th. They correspond to the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year. They attend to separate voting petitions, we vote in the first place points 3, 12 and 16. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics. Let's now vote points 6, 7 and 18. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 129 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 51 votes to 65, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 39 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. We're voting on the 17th. The vote begins. This point was approved by 121 votes to 99 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, against 12 abstentions. We'll vote now for the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. This motion was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00240/12]] We now vote on item 19, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year. Let's vote first, points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13 and 14. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. I mean, for the record. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 28 abstentions. We're voting 8 and 9 points now. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 68 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and no abstention. We're voting point 11. The vote begins. This point was approved by 42 votes in favour, 38 against—correspondents to 16 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 53 abstentions. We're voting for the 15th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 57 votes in favour, 41 against and 35 abstentions—correspondents to 13 delegated and face-to-face votes and 22 telematics votes. Let's go now and vote point 16. The vote begins. This point was approved by 116 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of Covid-19 funds for economic and social recovery (continuation)]] [[302-00235/12]] So let's move on to the next, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the management of the Covid-19 funds for economic and social recovery. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 53, with 15 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 80 votes to 58 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting on the third point now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 113 votes to 17, with 3 abstentions. We're voting point five now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 112 votes in favour – correspondents to 90 face-to-face and delegates and 22 telematics –, 21 against and no abstention. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 113 votes to 17, with 3 abstentions. We're voting now on the number six point of this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 73 votes to 51 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 53 against and 7 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the regularization of immigrants (continuation)]] [[302-00236/12]] Let's now vote on the following point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the regularization of immigrants. They attend to separate voting petitions, we vote in the first place on point 1.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes to 55 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 56 against and no abstentions. We're voting point 1.b now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 77 votes to 39, with 7 abstentions. We're voting now on the 1 letter and d point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and seven abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point one. The vote begins. This point was approved by 76 votes to 54 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 20 votes against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.f. The vote begins. This point was approved by 77 votes in favour, against and 56 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.g. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes to three, with 53 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 2.f. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes in favour – 91 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents –, 3 against and 17 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.n. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. Point two, letters i, j, l. The vote begins. These points have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting now, point 2.n. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 39, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point two, letters plus. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 94 votes in favour – correspondents to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics –, 3 against and 36 abstentions. And now we're voting on the rest of 2nd and 3rd. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to three, with no abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the occupation and socio-occupational conditions of self-employment (continuation)]] [[302-00238/12]] So, let's move on to the next, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the occupation and socio-occupational conditions of self-employment. Let's vote first place point number one. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 4 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 116 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point has been approved by 68 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and no abstention. We're voting for the sixth point now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 39 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the dotze now. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the defence of institutions and self-government (continuation)]] [[302-00239/12]] Let us now proceed to vote on the twenty-third item of the agenda, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government on the defence of institutions and self-government. They attend to the separate voting petitions, we vote in the first place point number 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 77 votes to 55 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 56 against and no abstentions. We're voting points 7 and 10 now. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 64 against and 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved by 69 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector (continuation)]] [[302-00241/12]] Let us now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the need for a rescue plan for the cultural sector. Let's vote first place point number three. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 15 votes in favour, 82 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. The point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of this motion have been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[General debate on the health situation (continuation)]] [[255-00015/12]] Let us now vote on the motions for a resolution of the general debate on the health situation. We shall begin by voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We now vote on resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 68 votes in favour, against, 65 abstentions – correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. Let's now vote number four. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 69 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents – and no abstention. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 38 votes to 94 with 72 votes in favour, 22 against and 22 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 55 votes in favour, against and 77 abstentions—correspondents to 55 delegated and face-to-face votes and 22 telematics votes. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 32 votes in favour, against and 101 abstentions – correspondents to 79 votes by delegation and face-to-face and 22 telematics. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 64 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. Let's vote number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 64 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions – correspondents to 47 face-to-face and delegates and 22 telematics. Let's now vote for number eight. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 65 against—correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 4 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. And we vote on the number 10 and then on the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to move forward. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. We vote for number 1, including the error correction for point number 2. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are now voting on Motion for Resolution No. 3, including the correction of errors relating to Point No. 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 104 votes to 82 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 12 against and 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. It was adopted by 125 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by three votes in favour, against and 130 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's worth it, too. [[Rialles.]] We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. It was rejected, by 39 votes in favour, 82 against—correspondents to 60 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 12 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 112 votes to 17, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number 10 now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes to 90 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 against and 4 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 88 votes to 17, with 3 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It has been adopted, this motion for a resolution, unanimously, 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 39. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 59 votes in favour, 38 against—correspondents to 16 face-to-face and delegates and 22 telematics—and 36 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, four. Excuse me, huh? It was adopted by 125 votes to none, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was approved by 48 votes in favour, against and 85 abstentions – correspondents to 63 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematic votes. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. And we are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. It was adopted by 128 votes to three, with two abstentions. And we are now voting on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 42 votes to 41, with 50 abstentions – correspondents to 28 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics. Let us now vote on resolution 2, including the correction of errors. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 74 against – correspondents to 52 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics – and 47 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 91 against—correspondents to 69 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—and 30 abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. This proposal for resolution No. 6 of the CUP - Crida Constituent has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 39 against and 82 abstentions – correspondents to 60 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 39, with 65 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 92 votes to three, with 38 abstentions. We now vote on number 9, including the error correction. The vote begins. It was approved by 12 votes in favour, 5 against and 116 abstentions – correspondents to 94 votes by delegation and face-to-face and 22 telematics. And finally, we vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to three. We now vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote on number 1 begins. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 29, with 39 abstentions. We now vote for number 2, with the built-in error correction, relating to point number 4. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 29, with 39 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 17, with 51 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 nos and 48 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 108 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 17, with 46 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 18 against and 47 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 108 votes to 17 with 8 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes to 55 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 against and 39 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 17, with 47 abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 116 votes in favour – 94 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents –, 17 against and no abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 against and 47 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 58 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 17 against and 36 abstentions. We now vote on number 14. The vote begins. It was adopted by 108 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on number 15. The vote begins. It was adopted by 104 votes to 21, with 8 abstentions. And we are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 116 votes in favour – 94 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents –, 17 against and no abstentions. And finally, we vote on motion for resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents, 64 against and 4 abstentions. There are no more points to vote. The session's up. Thank you very much.
