ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.1.0	Well, good morning, MPs and MPs; vagina sit on your seats. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the local world and managed it from the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00214/12]] Let us resume the plenary with the fourteenth of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the local world and the management of the pandemic of the Covid-19, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, after questioning Councillor Budo because she explained to us and defined various questions related to the local world, with great surprise we proved that Mrs Budo did not come to answer or clarify any question related to the gatherings, nor did she come to recognize that her government does not generate confidence in local entities. The councilwoman came to pick up and explain that she had very well coordinated with the gatherings. And he adds that everything that went to local corporations was Madrid's fault, as if she didn't have any responsibility. A mantra that they repeat constantly and that they think that, based on repeating it, it will come true. Deriving responsibilities from others clearly demonstrates this government's lack of capacity. The facts show that the generality has left the gatherings behind during this pandemic. Lack of support and transparency in gatherings is a crippling reality. Look, without going any further, last week's head was reproved. First they did it with the populations of the conca d'Odena. And disbanded, with the municipalities of Segria. Lleida's mayor knew, thirty minutes earlier, that the Segria would be confined, and he had two hours to organize himself. Even the very honorable president of the Generality was not able to take the phone to explain the situation to the ill-fated. He said, Dr. Simon announced that the Generalitat valued confining Lleida. But then the Vergés councilwoman went out to rectify it and denied it quite strongly, and the divendres explained to the media that the Segria would not be confined. He did, however, when everyone had already left for the week, the Government announced the confinement of the Segria. More confusion and disconcerting, impossible. Look, this is no way to help the gatherings. It's the exact form because the gatherings are not enough: enough to demand information, enough to claim that they are giving funds to deal with the effects of the pandemic; enough of a government that only thinks of electoral results; enough of advertisements that promise what they cannot accomplish; enough of a government that thinks more of independence than of the interests of mayors and mayors. Last week a motion from my parliamentary group was approved, which called for the creation of an extraordinary catalan background of 600_million euros, for social and economic reconstruction addressed to the assemblies. The motion was approved with the votes of all the parliamentary groups in this chamber, except for Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, that is to say, the government, which voted against it, an absolute clarity of how this government helps the assemblies. I'd like to comment on some statements that I'm sure they'll sound like: "I got the feeling that I got more information from Italy than I did from our country. This was publicly said by the mayor of Igualada, Marc Castells, of the PDECAT, when the confinement of the conca d'Odena was produced. Later, the voice of Lluís Soler, president of the Catalan Association of Municipalities and also leader of the PDECAT, who publicly asked for more resources for the local world, was very critical with the management of the Government. And this weekend, the mayor of Lleida, of Esquerra Republicana, explained that he liked having more time to prepare the confinement. Clearly, that's not coordinating with local corporations. Mirin, Councilwoman Budo is left with arrogance and lacks moderation. This movement of the local world urgently calls for more resources to be provided for the gatherings. He asks that the Feder funds that were withdrawn from local corporations, universities and research centres be returned. It is a matter of fixing what they have done badly, because the assemblies have been waiting, for a long time, for the impulse and the increase of additional resources, for example, of a new foundation of local cooperation, because they have to deal with the needs generated by this pandemic. And yes; this government must also be able to compromise, debate and reach agreement with the state government on the issue of surpluses and romances. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Sit down at the table – I finish, President – sit down at the table, dialogue and approve the proper assumptions. And if they don't see each other in color, call for elections.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.4.0	Good morning... [[The speaker's taken off the mask.]] Oh, I'm sorry, she's already so internalized... good morning. I would like to thank the group proposing this young man, who helps us to put here, in his parliamentary office, in the front, the municipalist institutions, some institutions that have been real protagonists of the management of the social and health crisis, often in a little visible, in fact, practically invisible, without great focus or great wheels of pressure, as the Government has accustomed us, to govern under the wheel of pressure. There are hundreds of municipalities that have been crucial in this first response of the citizenry, in giving response to the social and health emergency. As always, they have led this response and, more importantly, they have worked colza to rape and hand with the entities of civil societies at the time of giving a solid response, a voluntary response, a creative response to help the most vulnerable face this pandemic that has plagued us. The gatherings have been crucial. Municipalism has set itself in value, once more, as the most effective tool, to be near the people, to put the people in the center. It also serves this young man, this debate that we are having, to make an explicit recognition and a grace to all those local corporations, to all those directors, directors, technicians and municipal officials who have been working in the first line, often without much public recognition. And we, like the least of us here, the least of this scoot, want to make this recon. We have seen how, for example, Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, has been at the forefront of the response to the crisis, doing many things that it did not have to do: setting up hospitals that it did not have to do; giving response to the residences that it did not have to do, and many times, before the desperate tricks of the people who are in the residences, because they had no response on the part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because there was no one else on the phone. And that, precisely – and it has already been mentioned in the previous intervention – is what we also want to report from here. That, much as Councilwoman Budo says, with all the grandeur of her words, that there has been a great deal of coordination with the local world, that there has been work on rapeseed rape, hand to hand, is not true. And I think it's worth saying clearly, because I just need to talk to the mayors and the mayors, to know that it's not true. And, in fact, we are seeing it right now in the management, too, of the crisis in Segria, where mayors who even are of the parties that are in the government are complaining about the lack of response and coordination that is often made by the Government of Catalonia. We believe that Councilwoman Budo has not, has not coordinated, has not taken over the leadership role that should be taken as the coordinator with the locals. Meeting, from time to time, with representatives of the Catalan Federation of Municipalities and of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, this is not to coordinate with the assemblies, this is not to be giving response to the daily needs they have, when there were assemblies that were requesting that they be authorized and helped to make arrangements with the hotels, in order to allocate health personnel. There was no response from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We can all remember the crisis that there was and all the chaos that there was with the distribution of the food market, where it must have been the gatherings that had to take over all this distribution, often without counting with the necessary staff and having families to move. We believe that the Generality's response to this crisis has just not given an answer to the local world. When the local world called, there was no one on the other side of the phone. We think that this motion – that we thank the Socialist Party and that, moreover, it has incorporated many of the points that we have made, that were basically to improve and to try to complete a little the proposal and take advantage of the debate to approve these points, that are very important for the assemblies – we believe that it must also serve, because there is also a union of the forces that exist in this Parliament, also, yes, as it was said, to negotiate and talk with the State, with the Spanish Government. Because we also believe that the Spanish Government, the Government of the State, of which our party is a party, and the Socialist Party too, but where there has also been representation of all the forces that are here, in the Congress of the State, must work without excuse, already, for the repeal of the LRSAL. And we think that's what this is supposed to do, this young man and this session, because we all make a compromise with this waiver of the LRSAL and we can also work because the assemblies can use the surplus and the Romans. From here I would like to place all the forces to make a vote in favor of municipalism and to make a vote to work together to give response to the local world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.6.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we understand the motion as very positive, because it focuses on one of the administrations damaged and forgotten in the crises, the local world. It was in the economic and financial crisis of 2008 and it has been again in the health crisis of the Covid-19. And it has been and is, because the municipalities end up assuming the costs of services that would correspond to other administrations, especially the Generalitat. And, in a sense, it is normal for these municipalities to end up assuming these services, because in crisis situations, in situations of difficulty, the citizens approach the municipalities as administration closer to them. And obviously, the municipalities, within their possibilities, try to give answers and solutions to these municipalities. And, in that sense, we understand the motion, in achieving the commitment of the Generalitat, not only to assume the issues that are within its competence and therefore also its financing, but, as the motion says, at such a serious time as the present one, to equip the municipalities with an economic shock plan to provide them with greater economic resources to face up to part of the economic and social reconstruction that is theirs. We therefore share the global concept of the motion. It is true that we have made some amendments, from our point of view, of a nuanced, clarifying nature, especially with regard to the legal framework. Because, for us, giving more economic resources to the municipalities does not have to burden the regulatory framework. And in that sense, load the ARSAL. We prefer to focus on what is our responsibility, and it is to ensure that the Government, that the Generalitat fulfils its commitments, fulfils its obligations and provides the local world with greater economic resources and is more sensitive, especially in the current difficult situation facing the citizens of Catalonia, right? That is why the amendments we have tabled, which we thank to Mrs Moreta for her efforts to try to integrate some of them, which we also believe will improve or partially improve the motion tabled. Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Adriana Delgado's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, good morning to everyone, counselor, deputies and deputies. The crisis, first health care and now also economic and social, provoked by the Covid-19, has put all administrations to the test. Also, and in a very punishing way, the assemblies, which have had to respond to the needs, the emergencies, the petitions and also the complaints of our citizens. I say by experience: I have the honour of being mayor of Sant Vicenç de Castellet. And now, we've had to execute, too, top management directives with little time to maneuver, in some cases. And as always, with limited resources and skills. But we've done it again: We've worked together to respond, because citizenship first goes to the institution closest to and best known to the people's living conditions. With a lot of effort and energy, adapting to every moment and situation and allocating all possible resources, we have tried to deal with the effects of the coronavirus crisis in our municipalities. The objective, like that of the Republic Group, is to strengthen the assemblies, so that they can give these answers, which we can react with more resources. That's why, until we still appreciate motions like this, and we haven't tried to agree many of the points. I think that's what we have to say. We've put in many papers, some, a few, accepted, and we've got a deal alone, all the while it seemed like we'd have more in common and it wasn't like that. As the mayor believes, if a motion is proposed to strengthen local administrations at such an exceptional time and of such need, it must be demanded with all the administrations that can make it possible. It's funny how on the part of the PSC it's as easy to demand resources often without limit, in all areas of the Generality, and on the other hand, when it comes to claiming to the State, this requirement disappears. The joints are also tired of having to execute decisions of the Government of the State published the diumenge to the BOE. That's what happened. And yes, it is basic that normal changes are made, as called for by the accepted commons, but we have to be brave and we have to demand that the LRSAL law be repealed and that the ability to act together is not limited, that they are now so limited by the compliment of presuppositional stability, financial sustainability and the rule of spending. As we are demonstrating in the management of the crisis, from the different administrations where we govern, we will give support to many points: those who ask to provide economic and human resources to apply security protocols, re-opening of services, improving in areas of health, social welfare, occupation, education, etc. Because compromise is there, work is there, cooperation is there. We have had more disagreements, certainly a few points of agreement, in questions of salvation, because I honestly do not believe that there was this willingness, because in the end we also asked, for example, in the case of the opening of the CAPs, there was a progressive opening, which prioritized the safety of people, citizens, users, professionals. There's also been a bit of a time at the points where you're dealing with education issues; we've also been here, maybe, encounters and disagreements. I think it has to be put in value, and it has been done, all the work done from the gatherings when there was the closure of the schools, which the gatherings had to put on the starting numbers. And now what we need, for the future, for the proper course, is the compliment of the arrangements to meet the need for educational resources. We too have been pleased to reach a consensus in the text, in the writing on food aid. You're talking about eating alleys when out of school isn't like that. And we want to add texts of motions that have been approved, that are working, and you know it, and that's how we support it, precisely because we're trying to make it possible. And I've just come to recognize the great task of gatherings, of directors, mayors and mayors, but also of technical and administrative staff, at these times of greatest difficulty for everyone. What has manifested this health crisis, now above all social and economic, and its consequences, is that to get out of this situation the republican values are and will be more necessary than ever: collective responsibility, compromise, solidarity and struggle to preserve social rights and public services. And this fight starts in every town hall in the country. We help our mayors and mayors, governors and governors, who have been and will always be at the side of their people. We're equipping the pool of resources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.9.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.10.0	... – and I end president –, eines, skills to be able to develop these tasks and to give answer to the needs and problems of our citizens to make them better lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf, now, of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Erra has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.12.0	Thank you, President; Counsellor, Members, Members. There are many recognitions to make in this situation that with the country we have lived, many, and from here a grace to everyone; I would not want to neglect anyone. But since the PSC's motion is about the local world and the Covid, I would like to take the opportunity to express my appreciation to all the local elites, that is, to all the mayors, mayors, governors and governors, for their task before this crisis. I say it with knowledge and because I know it: they all left it behind and contributed and aged on all fronts to stop this pandemic, and to respond to the situation and the needs that were generated before this crisis, because we all know that the local world is the trench. And the local world is clear that the municipal assumptions will be touched, and very touched, because of this coronavirus. And one of the things we're clear about is that we have to give answers, answers to the new needs that came out. They've already done it. They've been planning on rocking, before this unexpected situation came to us. As we also know we will have to do and be loving above all to create new social policies, because we know the importance of cohesion and social inclusion, as well as the economic revival that will warm us up in our municipalities. And above all, it's in the trade, in the occupation, in the habitation. We're clear we'll have to be in the front. And now we find ourselves in front of this young man, who wants to be a gathering for the local world, and at many points we agree, because the government is flying and is at the side of their gatherings. The government and its different departments generated and continued to generate subsidy lines because they made it clear that it was necessary to insuffer liquidity at the joints. And the motion calls for a plan of social and economic reconstruction for the assemblies. And here there's already a compromise of a Catalan background for local recovery in this sense. Now, as Juntes for Catalonia we are demanding, and being demanding with our government, asking for help and for it to be on the side, because being on the side of the municipalities is also being on the side of the citizens of this country. Now, it would also be time for the Spanish State to speed up the thought that Juntes per Catalunya to the Committee on the Reconstruction of the Congress of Deputies..., where it was approved that local corporations should already have surpluses and Romans; all groups, except the PSOE, that it is difficult to understand that in this young person it is what they are asking for, that they were in favour of this task, and even that they also include the non-application of the expenditure rule for local corporations until 2021 and that part of the European fons can be managed for the joints and the communities. It would be time, too, and no more excuses, that the LRSAL is already repealed. We don't just want a normal change, as the young lady asks, but what we want is this derogation. We have until now, and everything that the PSOE has compromised that if they were to rule, they would withdraw this law, but it's been two years since they've ruled and yet this hasn't happened. There's enough – there's enough – that all the money from our people and our cities is locked in a cove and that's right now, that's when we need it the most, we can't arrange it. These resources, we need to allocate them to our citizens. But it seems like the Spanish State is either... or it's a deaf dialect and it's not listening to our petitions. You in this young man are demanding and we have voted for them..., even we have accepted them many points, because the government is already acting and because we are clear that we need to protect our people and cities, and we need to act in many ways: in what they say, housing, in economic recovery, in plans of occupation, that we are all concerned about young people and ladies and women over forty-five years old, in order not to stay out of the system. But it must also be fair, that the government is already doing many of these petitions that you ask for. The young person raises some concerns that the Government has already presented, and that answer to the various needs that you need to gather: pull forward with the PUOSC; vet for the situation of the residences, both in the labor issue and in its sustainability; lines of trade that already incorporate the answer, and even also the mobile markets, as you ask; increase the plans of occupation; strengthen the more social areas, and they will also have more resources for the bressol schools, schools of music. And it's clear that even though we're under the effects of this pandemic, it's going to condition the re-opening, as the Member of Parliament of Esquerra explained, of primary care centers, for example. What we are clear is that the crisis that has arisen from the pandemic has brought to the limit the gatherings of the whole country, that they have not only had to give a health and social response and urgent to thousands of citizens, but that they have had to do so because we are the first door to which our citizens trick. The local administration is now in front of one of the major milestones in its history, and the government has to be and is at its side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Dimas Gragera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.14.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to you all. I believe that we have all agreed on the importance of the local world, the key role that they have developed in managing this crisis and that they will have to continue to develop. And I am pleased to see that we also agree that they will need the support of the rest of the administrations to continue to manage the emergencies ahead of us as a result of this crisis. That is why we believe that the debate is relevant, that the proposals that are being made are absolutely necessary, and that they will have our support in all the points. We believe that it is vital to create specific aid for the care of the Covid of the municipalities, to create financing and co-financing programmes. We also believe that limits on spending and investment should be relaxed, that local surpluses can and should be allowed to be invested in managing this crisis. We also believe that it is necessary to assume diligently the powers of this Administration also with the local world. We also believe that at such a time the human and material resources of the main services for the care of citizens from the municipalities should be strengthened. But we warn you that – today we have heard many good speeches, many pats on the back, many recognitions – from Citizens we will be vigilant to fulfill their commitments to the local world. More than anything because we come from a time when the municipalities have been totally abandoned by this administration: you have not paid what you had to pay; you have accumulated debts that reached even 10_per_cent of some municipal budgets, forcing the municipalities to go to financial markets, while you retained the resources; you did not assume competences, forcing the municipalities to assume the same, with the expenses and with the damage in other policies that you carried out, and neither have you promoted significant lines of financing. I always give you the example: since 2010 the Neighbourhood Act has not been activated, for setting an example of funding projects that are standing still. And it is a situation that, as you have already mentioned, has not been reversed with the pandemic either. We have seen the abandonment that has occurred in the case of residences; they have also commented on the subject of the dining grants, of other social assistance... This situation has not been reversed either at this time. That is why we, I say, are going to be fully vigilant and we are going to demand realistic solutions, because what is required of us are realistic solutions to the issue that is coming to us. And we are not going to accept, as they always do, excuses that there are no resources. Yesterday Mr Torra said that with this budget we cannot manage this autonomous community. We believe that it is with this Government that this autonomous community cannot be managed. I believe that we have shown that more than EUR 900 million are wasted every year, as we can see in the budgets, in duplicity, in chiringuitos, in ideological subsidies and other causes which are, of course, not of general interest. I think you are not able to tell the mayors that there are no resources, when we see how in your budgets you allocate more to external action than to financing lines to the local world. I do not think that you dare to go to the streets of Catalonia and tell the citizens of Catalonia that there are no resources, when in your budgets we see that you allocate more than 500_million_of_euros to the construction of your digital republic, to ideological computer developments, in a figure that is equivalent to the budgets of Girona, Tarragona and Lleida together. I don't think you dare go to the neighborhoods of Catalonia and explain to people that there are no resources, when the budget of TV3 exceeds every year the budget of large cities as could be Badalona or Hospitalet. I'm running out of time, I'd have several examples for you to continue to be ashamed of your management, but let's get to the point. We are faced with an emergency, we know what this government costs us in euros, but we also know what it costs us in opportunity costs and we have said this: without diligent, effective attention to the municipalities, we will not be able to deal with the management resulting from the crisis of the coronavirus. We want to keep talking about this. I think it's a subject to be followed up on, I think it's a subject to be valued in depth, which is why we've recorded an appearance with the counselor – which we don't see here today – in order to be able to continue..., she's moved us earlier that she couldn't come, but we've recorded this appearance in order to be able to discuss in more depth a matter that I'm already telling you that Citizens are worried about, and a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] It is now the return to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.16.0	Thank you, President. Well, we will vote in favour of this unfortunate young man who, in her justifications, seems to have made Mrs Moreta more of an electoral rally in favour of the Government of the State than of the Catalan municipalities. But, unfortunately, I say, this introduction that seemed to be a little out of hand, we are voting in favour of it. Indeed, our municipalities are in the first line, they are in the trench, every day – they have always been and now – of the response to the most urgent and most important social needs of the people of our country, giving answers, every day, to the first line requests of our people. And obviously – obviously – also in this crisis – also in this crisis – they have suffered and are patenting an absolutely unjust and unacceptable abandonment on the part of the joint government institutions. And I look, indeed, at our assemblies, which already usually assume responsibilities and competences that are not their own, such as those of the Bressol schools, at these times and in this crisis situation are assuming a huge overload in terms of social services, health care, food support to the needy population, support to all that is the school network, now in the leurea, etc., and despite all this overpower, despite the fact that they are taking all this overpower to give response to the people of their municipalities, such as the goddesses, suffer an important departure from the governing institutions, both from the State and from the Generality. But I'm listening – and I'm telling you this to the Members of the PSC and the Commons – for what it does to the issue of the Romans, that actually the assemblies must have their disposition to deal with the needs of the people, for what it does to the derogation, obviously derogating from the LRSAL, and obviously for what it does to the flexibility of the criteria of expense, of presuppositional instability, to fund, sincerely, to us that there seems to be some hypocrisy in this young man; we would vote in favour of it, but it seems to me that there is some hypocrisy and some manipulation. Why haven't you decided already, since the government of Spain in which you are? Make up your mind now! It seems hypocritical to us that, through a young woman, the Government of the Government of the State has placed itself in a position to ask for something that the Government of the State has already said that it should have done, if they really have a tangible and verifiable willingness to support the gatherings. Well, for all that, and despite all that, we will vote in favour of the young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, it has a definite turn on Congresswoman Moreta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.18.0	Thank you, President. Well, we believe that the key piece because local corporations are getting stronger and have more capacity to finance in order to achieve this faster and fairer recovery to the current health crisis..., it is essential to create this Catalan foundation for social and economic reconstruction. That should be made clear. This is precisely what they want: to value joint ventures and to donate resources and tools to local corporations. The Government of the Generality cannot limit itself to thanking them for their efforts. Now it is obviously time to move on to action and to deploy its skills to deal with many challenges, such as housing, new security protocols, which will certainly generate unplanned expenses, continue to offer essential services from the schools of Bressol, lleure, giving strength to local trade, but also to the mobile markets, to the paradises, to the mobile markets... Well, a wide range of questions. I would like to thank, above all, all the Members who have worked together on this motion, because I really have to say – I must say – that I have come out, for example, from the Government of Juntas for Catalonia and Esquerra, that the Members who have brought this young man are mayors, because I do not know if I have found the same understanding if I have not been there. So, I think it's a waste to say that many thanks to everyone; to the group of commons we have accepted all the papers and made a deal, to the PP group one paper, and to the Juntes group for Catalonia and Esquerra some papers and some others could not be, but in any case, I think we should debate more, more often in this Parliament, on the subject of the local world. Thank you so much everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance and prospects for self-government after the state of alarm]] [[302-00220/15]] After this debate, let's move to the next item on the agenda, which is the 15th and correspond to the motion following the government's inquiry into the balance and prospects for self-government after the state of alarm. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, to expose it has the word of deputy Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.20.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. It coincides that this young man is the day before he completed two years of the demonstration that there was in Barcelona in reaction to the feeling of the State, to the feeling that he murdered the State and killed the autonomous state. Hundreds of thousands of Catalans have come out to the street asking, for the first time perhaps, the independence of Catalonia, and we have set ourselves up on a route that we still maintain today and for which we continue here many of us. As I said, it is no longer a matter – as it was discussed at the time – if they had annulled fourteen articles or reinterpreted I don't know how many, but basically that sentence – that is the driving force behind the judicial coup that has governed the Spanish State for so long – he decided that the Statute of Catalonia had no value. It had no value whatsoever, it had no value for the powers reserved for the Government of Catalonia or for the powers of this Parliament. And that, in circumstances that were much better, right? Years ago I think we were much better than we are now, and we haven't seen 155 yet. We haven't seen 135 yet, which is also very important and we will hear a lot of talk in our own months and years, surely, in this crisis. We didn't have political prisoners, we didn't have exiles, we didn't have Parliament mortified by the Constitutional Court, we didn't have a massive violation of civil and political rights, we didn't even know the bulk of the monarchy's corruption, which we didn't want to talk about in this young man either, because the state of alarm and the health crisis didn't cover the monarchy's corruption, because they didn't want to divert attention, so they said, by filtering the news the dimune that had been declared by the state of alarm. We wanted to make a reference to the LAG – the "Mr. X of the LAG" – because it is also information that came out during this time and because democratic quality was linked to the quality of the State, it was linked to the possibility of guaranteeing the rights and, in the case of the Spanish State, it was always said that, say, democracy and the territorial articulation of power – decentralisation – went together. There has never been any democracy in Spain without decentralisation of power. A while ago – and in this Parliament has already emerged – that they tell us that at this time of crisis, at this time of health alarm, of economic and social alarm, too, it is not time to talk about independence, that we should be talking about how to resolve these crises. But I actually think we need to talk more than ever. We don't have to talk more than ever, because not being independent is what makes us not able to fight in any way, that we don't have the resources – also the resources of our fiscal effort – to fight against these crisis situations. And, in fact, what is not worth, what we cannot accept, is the trap of saying that you cannot talk about independence while trying to cope with the crisis and end the virus with flags and military speeches. Therefore, I believe that in this young man it was very important to balance, to balance these months of state of alarm in which we have discovered that they no longer usurp their powers for a law of the State, do not usurp their powers for a judgment of the Constitutional Court, but rather a simple minister, a simple ministerial order can already usurp the powers of the Generality of Catalonia. And we also have to say – and so we have written it down in the House – that centralism and mismanagement went together. That the small states, the decentralized states, have proven to be more effective, to be cleaner and to have better results at the time of managing this crisis. Therefore, we have to say; we have to say it and we will say it as many times as anyone: if we had all the resources, if we had been an independent state, we would have done better. We would have done better and had more resources, we would have more ability to decide for ourselves. Therefore, the current situation is not, as some would say, a situation to stop talking about independence, but to talk about it more, to say that the situation of democratic deficit, economic discrimination and absolute lack of guarantees of self-government in the Spanish State are all causes, all of them, which fully justify talking about independence, fighting for independence and, above all, taking back the path of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word now the deputy Raquel Sans on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.22.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, let me begin this intervention expressing my condolences to the family and friends of the worker who yesterday lost his life in a work accident in Iqoxe in Tarragona. Crisis situations, such as the global pandemic that has affected our lives, put the system in tension and show the fevers. We don't have to learn many lessons from this crisis. We've seen it in the last few monograms, in what we've been talking about the model of residences, the model of health care... we don't have much to learn. But there is also a lesson that we already knew and that we have definitively confirmed, and it is that the Spanish State constituted on the basis of the 78 rule is not a solution for the presence of Catalans and Catalans, and it is still less so for their future. This crisis situation has shown us that the response of the State before any difficulty goes through the re-centralisation of competitions in Catalonia had years and years of expertise, militarization and the return of rights and freedoms. It is true that the management of this pandemic has been complex and changing and that it has been very complicated, especially for those people who had to manage the crisis. But it's also true that the receipts to get us out - it could have been very different. It could have been based on collaboration, coordination between administrations, and not so much on taxation. Nor are we in favour of uniformed people being pressurized – so we have manifested ourselves since the first moment – or of such extreme limitations of rights as the first and only answer, nor of abandonment by the State of the most vulnerable people, as those people without papers, to put just a few examples of the things that could have been done differently. And this situation, however, we have to say that it is not new and that it responds to the DNA of a hypocritical state, of a state that vehemently defends beyond the "we are all equal before the law, gathers, certainly, to Article 14 of its sacrosanct Constitution, but that it is denied to investigate the millions donations by the King of Saudi Arabia to the Spanish monarchy and all the culebrot – all the culebrot – that this corrupt associated door. From a state that says that it cannot investigate the terrorism of the LAGs, that this is things of the past and that, even though CIA reports have been disclassified that point directly at President Felipe González, that better not touch it; it was not so that it is discovered who is the mystery Mr. X – certainly, the same State that has not been able to find out who was such "Mr. Rajoy". From a state that infra-finances Catalonia and leaves us without the resources necessary to be able to meet the needs of Catalans and Catalans, also in the matter of the great people. Especially striking is the subject of the Law of Dependency, let's remember, with a 50/50 financing commitment and where the Government of Catalonia has to contribute 80_per_cent. Of a state that has political prisoners and prisoners and that doesn't have enough with it, that now even questions prison permits. From a state that is about to be judged by the previous Bureau of Parliament, because we remember that our president, the esteemed Carme Forcadell, has already been sentenced to many years in prison. It's all about this and much more that we think the only way out is independence. And, to achieve it, we, the Republican Left, have said very clearly: we bet and appeal to the political path. That's why I'm taking advantage of this young man to present Juntes' company and company for Catalonia today to say that we will finally support them at all points. And I place them – as did our secretary general, Marta Vilalta – to whom we know and who we speak, and who we agree on the content and composition of the Catalan band, to arrive at the negotiating table – which should be convened in the coming weeks – with the maximum strength. Because now as now, despite all the world's skepticism – which we have – the dial table is the only tool we have to resolve this political conflict. Let us take advantage of it and not let an imminent call for elections weaken our position. Because if we don't go strong and convinced, if we don't go strong and convinced, we won't get out. And to the company of the commons and the PSC: as President Montilla said, we don't expect facts and not just words, because, despite the fact that it is true that the music that we have above the State has changed, now that the music is the only one that has changed. We have a space for sweat and talk. Enjoy it. They owe it to all Catalans and Catalans. If we have a conflict, as we have recognized all the parts, it is the responsibility of all and all as the least sister and try to resolve it. For us, the answer is clear: dialog, dialog and dialog, and some objects in the table; amnesty and self-determination. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and to fix his position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today the Junts Group brings us to Catalonia a motion on self-government. It does not cease to be curious that, precisely those who have done nothing other than try to liquidate this Catalonian self-government in order to legitimately overcome it, with the will of secession, come today to defend Catalonia's self-government. And it's very interesting that Mr. Costa begins his speech and is almost entirely based on his intervention in the Constitutional Court's ruling on the Statute of Autonomy. I say this because, in your young lady, in your young lady's text, you speak of LOAPA. And it's funny how you learn the themes that interest you the most. They tell us about LOAPA and they say it is an exhibition of the autonomous and democratic regression of Spain, which you say "the Spanish State". Well, I want to remind you that, precisely this Constitutional Court that you so much less, Mr Costa, this court that you almost present as a court of the Holy Inquisition, was the court that literally said that LOAPA was, in its main part, in its phonenal core, an unconstitutional law. And, therefore, to say that the Constitutional Court is what you say when you said what you said about LOAPA – that you, of course, ignore or try to band in your seat – does not cease to be curious and very illustrative of your way of concocting reality with what they are most interested in and leaving behind what they are not interested in to try to present Spain as a little democratic state. On the other hand, you are talking about Mr González and his alleged or alleged association with the LAGs and you are talking about the situation that occurred at that time, as if the LAGs were not a just and condemned case. Talk about transparency. Obviously, this case, the LAGs, was tried and convicted. Therefore, they do not intend – because it is what they are doing – to empathize or upset the image of Mr Gonzalez, because they only do so and exclusively because they try to "denodate the Spanish democracy," "denostrate the figure of those people who have had a fundamental role in reconciliation between Spaniards, in the coexistence between Spaniards, which you so much less. And, indeed, from here I want to claim the figure of Mr Gonzalez for the modernization of Spain, for the entry of Spain into the European Union, for the entry of Spain into modernity and, precisely, for what he did for the concord and coexistence between the citizens of all Spain that bothers you so much. On the other hand, you wanted to talk about self-government here. So, effectively, self-government is an instrument, territorial self-government is an instrument, a political technique that does, precisely, preserve or guarantee the "democracy of nations, democratic recognition of the diversity of a nation; in this case, of the Spanish nation. And, for what it does concretely to our autonomous community, in Catalonia, I believe it was a democratic demand precisely aimed at recognizing the plural reality of our community. What's happening is that you, with this self-government, what you've done is create an outcrowded and regressive identity that what you do is you need the presence and the importance of the Spanish language in Catalan culture and in everything that our coexistence represents. We saw it yesterday with the Councillor of Culture, Mrs Vilallonga, who clearly said that there was mass chatella in this Parliament. This is his vision of self-government. That's why you turn away self-government. Look, when they talk about autonomous regressions and democratic regressions, I want to remind them that the most autonomous and democratic regression we have experienced in this Parliament occurred on the 6th and 7th of September of the 17th. You have tried to liquidate from this Parliament our democratic order, our legal order, the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy, and this is indeed an authentic autonomous and democratic regression, Mr Costa. In any case, territorial self-government is justified, I insist, for what I said, because of a question of 'democracy' – which I believe is quite clear that you, from this point of view, have clearly distorted self-government – also because of a question of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, because of a question of functionality, of the effectiveness of public policies, and it is obvious, with what we are seeing these days in Lleida, that from the point of view of governing us, it is more than questionable that you do things better. Above all, I insist one more time, because of his obsession to blame everything in Madrid, because of his obsession not to recognize or not to try to put in value what they do well, but to be all day telling what they do badly the others, what they do badly Madrid. From this point of view, I believe that we also have to recognize that territorial self-government is justified from the standpoint of the so-called checks and balances, of checks and balances between powers, and I believe that with this, therefore, you obviously do not understand how a democratic state of law works, with its checks and balances, with its controls and balances of power, because of your obsession with trying to undermine our way of living that has given us forty years longer and more prolific of coexistence, of poor and prosperity for our country, concretely, for our community, for Catalonia, and for the whole country, for Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... It is rare hours, because the term can still count on hours, the President of the Generality has told us since this Faristol that – I think I quote more or less literally – "if anything we have not done during this pandemic is to take advantage of it for independent politics. If there are no examples that the lie – if in absence, I say, that is not the case – today the parliamentary group from which this president is born brings us a clear example, it gives us a clear example that denies the words of the president of the Generality. Because, taking advantage of the circumstances that occurred during the pandemic, the whole report of the Catalan nationalist right – certainly a recent report of the Catalan nationalist right – has emerged on which the autonomous development model of Spain has been based. The recent report states that the Catalan nationalist right in its previous permutations had been a co-participant in the development of this model, not only in place, but also, in its support for different governments of Spain and different legislative developments, as has been stated by Mr Martín Blanco, the appellant, from the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, some of the laws which were finally declared unconstitutional, as is the case with the LOAPA, in large part, in its language, and disregards its organic or harmonising character. Now they will tell us, as it is also relatively normal that they do later, that they have nothing to do with that previous space, as if the social and electoral spaces were things that appear and disappear in a day. They have nothing to see, but the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia is still transferring half of its funds to Democratic Convergence. Well, let's just say, what was the demonstration? In any case, what brings us here is much more to a medieval ordeal than to a more or less dispassionate judge over what may have been the construction of a certain territorial model in Spain over the past forty years, clearly where the guilt of a state has already been established that, not only for Catalonia, but also for a group that is said to be republic, says that the State has a hypocritical DNA. It would be interesting to analyze the thought behind this. From the start, this absurd anthropomorphization of a state, right? A state doesn't have a DNA – a state doesn't have a DNA – or a way of thinking. A state has had a historical development conditioned by questions that have to do with material questions, with the evolution of history at the length of the years, and from the point of view of ways it can be attributed neither intentions nor judgments of intent nor, either, using biological terminology, it can claim – as it says it has a DNA – this thing that they do not say tacitly, that it is irreformable and that, therefore, the only solution is independence. Certainly, the only solution they offer to everything, to all the complexity, is the model of the trumpism applied to Catalonia: to take the social, historical, political complexity of any problem and to flatten it up because the only possible understanding of the subject is that there is only one possible solution, and that this is secession. Clearly, first you're radically false; second, you could fight this idea. Because I can hear the attraction, before the confluence of many crises in the past years – a constitutional crisis, a territorial crisis, a credibility of institutions, an economic, social crisis, and now a pandemic, which will exacerbate the consequences of the previous social and economic crisis – I can hear the attraction of ironing the table, wiping out the piss and building a new country. Now, here's the big question: why should we want it for ourselves? Why not for those who are north of the Pyrenees, for the French, for the Portuguese, for those who are beyond the Noguera or the Ebre? Obviously, it's a half-hour, because there's Catalonia even more beyond the Noguera and the Jews, but why not? Ah, here, then, the arguments are already or ethnonationalist, which are very antipathic and come very little for Europe, except in these countries where there is this rise of national populisms, or they are fiscal sobiranists, which in progressive political formations would also have to arouse very little sympathy. In short, that you are making a false report here on what has been the development of the autonomic model for these forty years. And fortunately, our conviction in the bonds and opportunities that offer a federal model of governance, here and at the conjunction of Europe, does not depend on the judgment that we make of their abilities as managers or their way of hearing institutional loyalty; fortunately they do not depend on it. Because if we had to judge how things also developed during the pandemic, surely one might have doubts about the bounds of the subsidiarity principle. But no, it's not like that. The principle of subsidiarity and institutional loyalty, a federal model of governance, is absolutely the way to follow the conjunction of Europe, and we think that Spain too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.28.0	Well, thank you, President. Advisors, Members, Members: Well, the institutional architecture of the Spanish State is hardly that of a federal state or much less that of a plurinational state. And, indeed, this makes it possible that in an extreme situation like the one we have experienced in this pandemic, so the State did not have the proper mechanisms for a decentralized management that allows for proper coordination of decisions between the different levels of government. That's true. Now, from this weak institutional framework neither the failure of the Government of the State to manage health emergence nor the success of the Government of the Generality's management, either before, during or after the state of alarm. And I think in this sense the examples are clearer every day. Now, with the excuse of the state of alarm, you're making a report, in this case, telling us that the 78_rule followed a centralizing drift, which we share, but then you come to say that this drift is intrinsic to a Spanish state that is totally irreformable. And here we don't agree. First of all, their political predecessors did not only participate in the construction of this regime, but they also did so in their deployment for thirty years. He takes up a series of articles of the Constitution, such as 135, or 155, articles that we reject at the front, but he sees many other articles of the same Constitution, from his preamble, we speak of the people of Spain, or article 92, we speak of the references. Fixed 'that you speak to us of Article 149, that it is the one that regulates the exclusive competences of the State, effectively, but it is obvious to speak to us of 150.2, that it is the one that allows to transfer these competences to the autonomous communities. And with this I do not intend to make an absolute defense of the 78th Regime, a outdated and exhausted Regime, nor much less, but I do want to put in place that the same constitutional framework allows and allows for far different derivatives than we have experienced in the last few years, and I think that we do need to take advantage of that. Because the way in which the state of autonomy has been deployed has been passing on organic laws – you cite in your motion the LOAPA or the law of the Constitutional Court – and these organic laws can be modified; they can be modified, moreover, at the initiative of this Parliament and with an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies. And it now turns out that there is, in the Congress of Deputies, a majority in progressive and plurinational claus that could do so. Therefore, we believe that we should take advantage of it. They tell us, at point 8 of their young lady, that the new government of the state did not suppose anything of the past. Look, how many times in the recent history has there been a table of dialogue between the two governments, equal as it has been, to seek solutions to a conflict that we all recognize as political and more so with the compromise to subtly vote for the people of Catalonia that comes out of this table? How many times has this happened in the recent history? You really don't want to see that this is an advent of a government that's been invested so long ago and that a pandemic has occurred in these six months? For another band, could you tell me what concrete advances you have achieved in self-government in the last two years? They're rocking. With its strategy, has Catalonia gone forward or has gone back into self-government? Miri, we believe that the dial table opens up a great opportunity to move forward, and we believe that from Catalonia we should combine two strategies, which are not out of the question. For a band, the strategy of pragmatism, proposing viable reforms of the current mark, for example through organic laws in questions such as plurinationality, language or reference on the political status of Catalonia. That's possible and it's viable. And, for another band, the strategy of mobilization to achieve structural changes of foundations through social pressure. But this will only be possible if we do so with great consensus. Mrs Sans, the big consensuses are not just you and your governing partners, the big consensuses in this Parliament should be much wider. You have boosted the National Referendum Pact, which brought together 80_percent of society, to move on to the path of our own, a 47_percent path that allowed them to form governments, effectively, but more. And today, more than that, all these questions say that this unilaterality path only reverses the support of the 10_per_cent of the population. If we want to move forward, we need a government that works for 80 percent and not 10 percent. In short, our group will vote in favour of all those points of the motion that are a better one for the self-government of Catalonia, for the rights and for freedom, but we will vote against all points that make an unjustified criticism of the management of a government of the State that, in our opinion, is managing the crisis in a way that has nothing to do with how you managed it in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup - CUP Crida Constituent, it is the return for the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.30.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Costa, independence does not have to have any complex to talk about independence, either before, during, or after the crisis, or less before a state, before a state of the PSOE and Podemos, which manages the crisis embolizing itself with the flag of Spanish patriotism. Mr. Marc Parés, that's it: at the wheel of your government, the army, the Civil Guard and the Spanish flag. Don't pretend to. That's it. This is the framework of his government: militarization and a recent response. Therefore, complex cap – complex cap. Now, listen to me, you, Junts for Catalonia, the Government of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, use the reference to independence as a rhetorical question, as an indeterminate future, and, in change, you are focused on managing autonomy, and, finally, on asking at least in the State, asking for more skills and more finance; it is to say, as always, the usual push. This is their real political behavior: independent rhetoric and autonomous praxis. And listen to me, this before a state that, as I said, re-centralizes, rebuilds the regime, covers the corruption and terrorism of Mr. X's State; it is continuously trading arms sale as one of the important financing instruments of the State, etc. Listen to me, if we had a motive to exercise self-determination and independence before, at these times we certainly still have more. Mr Pedret, before a state that you say is a neutral, virginal, angelic and democratic instrument. For us, indeed, the State is the instrument of the 78th Regime. The set of actors, entremats and interests of the 78th Regime use the State in its interest to produce and reproduce. And, Mr. Parés, you've cheated before. Listen to me, the dialog table does not contemplate self-determination. You know it perfectly well. So they're deceiving us. They're carrying us for sale. Vote what? What is it they'll let us vote for? What can we talk about? About the actual exercise of self-determination is obviously not, huh? Therefore, this table of dialogue, Mr and Mr Esquerra Republicana and Mr Juntas for Catalonia, will only be useful if this Parliament and these institutions exercise sovereignty; if we return to social mobilization and civil disobedience; if we re-appropriate public resources, common assets and act with sovereignty and control of the territory, and if we reactivate the political conflict with the State. Only in this way, from the breakup, from unilaterality, and exercising sovereignty and self-determination, can we effectively give use to a dialog mark to the State and to the international level that brings us, yes, to independence. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.32.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Costa has started his speech using the fan technique. What happens to Mr Costa is that he lacks to look himself in front of the mirror and see that he has actually also ended up splashing, because behind the enumeration of cases of corruption, of state terrorism that he has done in his intervention, he has also forgotten to list the cases of corruption of Mr Pujol and his political party, of which you are heirs, for many nominative disguises that you want to put on. By far PDECAT, by far Junts per Catalunya, with or without a coma, you are the heirs of Jordi Pujol and his political party. Therefore, Mr Costa, it is dangerous to use the fan technique. And I think that when you go up to a rostrum, you have to be a little bit more rigorous and have a little bit more modest. Obviously, we do not share the motion, because it is simply fictional literature, much appreciated in other areas, but it is surprising that you have seen yourself in the mood enough to defend it without blushing too much. And I tell you this because, as much as you want to deny the truth and bury the truth, the history of the Constitution of 78 is a success story; a story of shared success, with concessions and assignments on the part of the whole world for the benefit of the common project and of the citizens that we make up the Spanish nation. A success story that has only had one problem, its disloyalty, because you will forever be the story of a betrayal. And, as a result of this tradition, it is true that we must review the Constitution and especially the autonomous state, but not in the sense you want. Therefore, be calm on that journey that you have described to us, because what you would like will not come. But the most surprising thing is that with this motion it seems that its only concerns and priorities are competence instead of the virus and its serious consequences. And the problem of managing the Covid-19 in Catalonia has not been competence, but incompetence and, unfortunately, the Government of Catalonia, which you support, has shown and gives alarming signs of incompetence. Obviously, each has its own legitimate priorities. You go on with yours, huh? , which are the competences, which we will continue to denounce the incompetence of the Government, because the health and well-being of all Catalans is at stake, and that is what we are really concerned about. The problems of Waterloo are not the problems of Catalans. Here there are other priorities, but at least have the sensitivity to conceal yours at these serious times. Because – I insist – his motion is pure fiction. But, unfortunately, the government's incompetence is real and has very negative consequences on the daily lives of all Catalans. Thank you very much, President; Members; Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mr Josep Costa has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.34.0	Thank you, President. In this young man we had only one item from the Republic Group, which we have tried to trade; thank her. In any case, the emena asked or referred to the dialog table or the need to assemble this dialog table. We were going to propose a deal that would refer us to the motion that we were going to approve in this Parliament the month of February – if I don't recall it badly – about a little the methodology and principles of this dialog table, and we couldn't agree. It is obvious that we have materials at the time of hearing, say, the viability and utility of this table, if it does not have certain guarantees and a certain methodology previously agreed upon. I will take advantage of the time I have for two clear references, two answers also in groups. Indeed, the liquidation of self-government justifies independence, it is the just cause of Catalonia's independence. That's why we're talking so much about how self-government has been eliminated and how the 78th Constitution's experience has been betrayed, and how all the attempts to reform the state have failed, and I'm still thankful that here it's about federalism at this point and after everything that's happened. I was interested in Ciutadans' defense of Gonzalez's management, because a party that wants to support the regime has to, say, defend one of the elements of the regime; it is normal that they do so. So it's interesting and enlightening. And, finally, well, also a reference to LOAPA. Indeed, the Constitutional Court declared LOAPA unconstitutional for reasons of form and applied it for 20 years in its case law. This is, say, the summary of all this. And anyway, well, there's been a certain transversality in talking to me about Pujol and the history of autonomy. I'll tell them... I'll make them a confession: I'm a left-wing independentist since I was 15 years old, huh? And, therefore, Together for Catalonia is the strength in which people who think like myself and who have never voted Convergence also converge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the covid-19 housing performance]] [[302-00215/12]] Let's continue with the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the housing activities of the Covid-19, motion presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To defend her, has the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, we present you today... [[The speaker's taken off the mask.]] Pardon me, masquerade already... We present to you today a motion with concrete agreements to reorient the action of the Government of the Generality in the field of housing, in a very determined aspect: the help to the lodger for the people affected by the Covid-19. When we asked the question that preceded this young man, we said that for many families the pandemic had not only been a problem of salvation, but had been, and still is, a difficult economic problem. And in the face of this reality, governments, administrations react, and do so respond to the need of families with rapid, effective and unabated basic resources, and it is clear that housing is a basic and essential need. We called in the question the social resources that the Government of Spain has articulated because no one in this crisis is left behind. Resources that, moreover, will be extended in time, because we are aware that the situation will not be resolved in a few weeks or months. Resources as important as vital minimum income and as the different specific aids in concrete areas, also in housing. And, in this sense, we have to put in value that, in the band of the transfers of the more than 57_millions that correspond to Catalonia of the Pla state of the habitatage, it has created a game of the Fons of contingency of 7_millions euros, of which 14_millions_i_mig of euros have arrived to our home. These funds were designed to create a line of help for people affected by the Covid-19, specifically the loggers that as a consequence of the economic impact of the pandemic have transitory problems to be able to cope with the payment of the logger. The Government of the Generality summoned these aid, and it did so on May 12th, with the same amount that had come from the Government of Spain, 14_million_i_mig euros. Not a penny more. And on the 29th, because of the amount of requests, he decided to suspend it. So, like, suspend's. According to them, until they could assess and know if the presupposition was enough. In fact, the same advisor Calvet in the interrogation already advanced that the initial departure of the 14_million_i_mig euros would not be enough. He told us that 60 million would surely be needed, then, in the following sentence, tell us that the Government of the Generality would allocate 5 million euros, 5 million euros that added to the 14 million dollars of the State, extraordinary that they will arrive, 19 million dollars. But you need 60. And what do we do with the needs that are missing to attend to, that correspond to more than 40 million that are not there? The government always ends up shielding itself at what's not above the state, as if it were a simple management that the only one that does is distribute what they donate, and that's not it. We already told them in the interview. The government has skills and resources. For this reason, in the motion that we present to you, we ask you to raise the suspension of the call for help and ask you that you have the necessary resources to face this demand. And we do so because we believe that the government must make the necessary effort at this moment, because it has the opportunity to do so, to leave no one behind, to leave no one without the resources needed to cope with the payment of their habitation. We call for priority to be given to the basic needs of Catalans and Catalans. But in the House we do not only raise the need for the aid called for; we also raise the need to strengthen the local housing offices with more human and material resources in order to cope with the call for requests and consultations that they have through the expansion of the agreed signatures with the assemblies. The joints are holding a key role in this crisis. Before, my company Marta Moreta talked about it. Providing them with better tools and better resources is essential because they can better serve the veins and the veins. And, lastly, we plant in the motion the need for mediation. For one thing, the need to have a valid and effective mediation tool between owners and lodgers, to resolve conflicts that may arise and avoid their judicialization. And, on the other hand, we put forward the need for everyone to contribute their share of social responsibility, and so we ask the government to lead the dialogue with ownership, with whom it represents the small and medium-sized owners, but also the big owners, because now it is more important than ever that the prices of the dwellings vary in relation to the time we live. We are aware of the difficulty of doing so, but if anyone can achieve it, it is the Government of the Generality. In these moments of exceptionality everyone has to put their grit, their share of social responsibility, and we ask, therefore, here a leadership of the Government. As I said at first, housing is a basic need for people, and with the pandemic we have not been more aware than ever. Therefore, the Government of the Generalitat prioritizes housing policies and devotes material and human resources to making and ensuring that all Catalans have access to and can preserve their habitat. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, and on behalf of Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Mr José Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.38.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Member who made the proposal for the negotiating capacity they have had with the part we would agree with, which is the mediation part. In fact, it is a matter that we as a group have pressed the department in this sense, we have insisted both on the committee and on the Councillor's appearances, we have put forward a proposal for a resolution to the Committee of Territories, and we believe, moreover, that for the mediation it is to bet, but it is not to bet on the void, but with resources from the local housing offices, and, in this sense, it will find in this group an accomplice and even a corco with the Government because that is what it is doing, and therefore we are grateful and there is complete agreement and in line. We do not agree with the rest of the motion and we will vote against it. For various motius. First of all, the Generalitat is already making an effort in this sense, already equipped to help the housing logger. In this crisis of the Covid, the Generalitat has contributed 10_million euros to advance the payments of the lloger of people who are in vulnerability, 10_million euros. To postpone the payment of the loggers of the people who are in habitations of the Catalan Habitats Agency has invested 3_million euros. To cover – and this is a game that was opened in half of the Covid crisis – the big people that state aid left out in 2019, has invested 10_million more euros. And in an extraordinary game we expand the state endowment by 5_million euros. That means 32_million versus 14.5. But we're talking about wreaths, we're talking about wreaths versus need. You present us here 14,5_million euros, a contribution as if it seemed an extraordinary and fantastic help, when in 2009– 2009– the State gave to the Generality 150_million euros in help to logue, 150. By 2019, in ordinary help, it was 30_millions. Therefore, 14,5 for the hardest crisis our country has had, they are wretched, let's say it. And, besides, we're managing wreaths, because there are very hard, very hard structural problems that depend on you and the governments that have been in the state. We have buried 100,000_million euros in the last twenty years in reliefs for the sale of habitats, the record, 100,000_million euros. And this is the responsibility of you, the PP and the governments of the parties that gave him support at that time. One hundred thousand million euros. We also have a problem. The Generalitat, it is true, if in percentage of GDP we are invested very little in housing policies, in percentage of GDP, but not in percentage of the Generalitat's assumption. A government of a territory that invests in percentage of its budget much more than the European average, but in percentage of GDP much less, is much paradoxical. When the fiscal pressure in Catalonia could be higher, but it is the lowest in Europe, where is the trap? That which you maintain, which is the structural funding deficit of the Generality. The last twenty years, 200,000_million euros that have not returned to Catalonia, of structural deficit. And I'm talking about wreaths and I'm talking about such high figures because the president of the government, Mr. Sánchez, said on March 17 that he was injecting 200,000_million euros into the Spanish economy, including housing aid, aid to the autonomous communities. They're not there, they're not seen. We only have promises, we only have promises and you come with a game of wreaths, wreaths. They force us, moreover, in an autonomous _framework to manage the wreaths. As you are responsible, you are responsible for the fact that housing is a structural problem in this country for its management, for its continued policies. And they come here and ask us to be the generality that solves a structural problem. Do you have the ability to bring these resources, to demand these resources to Europe? But it's that even in the gullet management, the Generality is more efficient than you: 32_million in extraordinary aid throughout the Covid crisis; you, 14,5, who don't know very well how they were distributed, because 14,5 don't know what percentage represents, because neither in the population nor in GDP do we represent this. But in this sense, they won't find us at your side. In the media, where it is the Generality's responsibility and has the resources to do so, we will be there and be cork, but to condemn us to manage an autonomous brand of wreaths and then make us responsible for it, no. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians Joints for Catalonia, Mr Antoni Morral has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.40.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, Councillor Calvet, very good morning to everyone. Certainly, as this young lady's poser said, Mrs. Ibarra, the pandemic hits us all. The crisis of the Covid is a crisis that affects all of us, but without doubt those most vulnerable sectors. And here the issue of housing is an important one, in this context. It was already an emergency situation before the Covid crisis, now it's even more. Therefore, this forces all administrations to unite efforts, to increase all the resources that are possible to deal with this situation. In this young man, we appreciate the points that have been accepted, in the fifth and sixth points of the young man, which, for another band, refer to actions and programs that the same department is already carrying out, as in point 4, which we would also vote in favour. That is to say, for what it refers, therefore, to what is the increase of resources to the local housing offices, which are being added in order to increase the human and technological resources of the different offices, such as the dialogue with the owners of the llogar floors, the great efforts to avoid unnecessary judicial proceedings and to avoid and to favor – let us say this – an adjustment to which the pre-logar are attached, as well as promoting mediation between the owners and the logators to adjust also to the concrete situations in each of the cases. These are concrete proposals from the motion that we will vote for, because we share them and because somehow they are also coming to fruition from the department. And, look, Mrs. Ibarra, to us, in fact, we would very much like to be able to vote on 1, 2 and 3, of the points. In fact, we wish we could vote for them, but there are things that cannot be. It is in a good part of you, it is in a good part of you and the government and the party that you represent and the responsibilities that you have in Madrid, that we can, therefore, face these three points that you plant. It is certainly a matter of resources, a subject of important resources, a lack of resources to deal with a very important situation, a problem that we have, let us say, to the country and that somehow the Generalitat, the Government of the Generalitat is making important efforts and punishes them at once, because it is aware of the pressure and the demand that at these moments patimo, and it shows that, in the period, let us say it, before the confinement, the same councillor Calvet has already advanced with a battery of proposals that in some way were very useful to deal with this situation, which was, therefore, the moratorium in which all lodgers are in habitats and commercial locations, as well as those that were held by the public, which were, in effect, very useful to the effect of this situation, which was, in other words, the practice of the government, but also of the government. Also in the contingency funds have added 5_million euros to face this situation. And certainly, as the spokesman of the Republican Left Group commented, 14.5 million euros worth of 100 million dollars that the State has all over the State are very few resources. So much so that when the solicitation offices were opened in two, 15,500 solicitations were made, which in their economic potential represented some 64_million euros. For a reason of prudence, therefore, it was, of course, suspended that which was the most requested, suspended that we want to raise, certainly, but that, of course, this is only possible if the State provides more resources to the country, if it provides more resources to the State, the Generality will complement with its 30_per_cent commitment to add it to this amount. Therefore, the responsibility for these three of these first three points is fundamental to you, which we can vote in favour. On the contrary, it would be irresponsible on our part. Miri, with all due respect, huh? This young man has a point of dishonesty and, if I may have the harsher word, a point of cynicism. Because, of course, while you have one scan for the other firm demanding that the government can breathe, and that's real, so it's very perverse – it's very perverse. Therefore, we cannot vote on these first three points. Because, somehow, we would really like to do this, but because we can do this, you have to do the gesture through your government, shared with the group of Podemos, because you offer more resources to deal with a problem that we certainly share very hard at these times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergio Sanz has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.42.0	Thank you, President. We are faced with a motion on housing and the crisis, on the need to minimize the risk of losing the housing that those fellow citizens most affected by the economic consequence of the health crisis. And as Mrs Ibarra has already said, on 18 May they announced the call for rental payment aid to minimize the social impact of this crisis and on 29 May they suspended the call for failure to comply with the request, and what they do is blame other administrations. Of course, is it not for the Generalitat to have jurisdiction over housing? Do they have no competence in social protection? Of course I do. Mr Rodríguez, you said that the problem of housing has not been solved by the Government of Spain, but it is that the competition in housing matters is of the Generalitat since the first day, since the Statute of the year 80, since the first day has been the competition... And, moreover, between your party and your governing partners have governed these forty years: they have been one, the other or the two together. So I think instead of doing what you always do to blame others, we should see what you're doing. But, of course, it is already said by President Torra: he is not here to manage an autonomy. And it has been seen, if it has been seen that they are not here to manage an autonomy. And before this crisis we were already seeing how mortgage executions and evictions were growing in Catalonia as they went down in other autonomous communities, such as Madrid or Andalusia. And this has much to do with the investment effort made by the Government of the Generalitat. You have said that more is invested here than in the rest of the autonomous communities. Listen, take the data: in relation to the budget of the rest of the autonomous communities, the Generalitat invests approximately 0.6_per_cent of the budget in housing policies, while the average in the autonomous communities is 1.1_per_cent, that is, we are in the middle of the average regarding what the rest of the autonomous communities invest. But, of course, we already know what you do: it's always to blame others. But no, we have to start assuming that Catalonia has to invest more in housing policies. That is why we have demanded so many times that 1,000_million_of_euro be invested for a decade, 1,000_million_of_euro per year for a decade for housing policies, which this Parliament approved last year with the majority support of the groups in this House. But the Government has continued to invest few resources in housing policies, although they are fundamental to welfare and social progress, as well as education or health care. And so we are: with an insufficient housing stock, with no resources to rescue people who see their incomes spoiled and risk losing their homes, because the autonomous government is managed from apathy and incompetence, because the autonomous government prefers to take advantage of the crisis to continue to take responsibility for the discomfort they call "l'Estat, forgetting that the state here is you; specifically, the decentralized part of the state that has to take care of housing policies, health policies, that all this works, so that there are no socially unprotected people. But we already know their priorities: What should be given 20_million_euro to TV3? Tomorrow. Spain isn't there..., come on, no problem. Now, what do we have to rescue people who can't afford the rent? « Spanish steals from us. That's what you guys do, all the time. And this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot go on like this: it is playing with the well-being of millions of people in a crisis situation, and we see that it continues with the canteen this, heavy, useless, which leads us nowhere but to the poverty of many citizens who are having a bad time and to whom you..., I suppose that as with this government, you look only at a part of Catalonia and not at the whole of society with all its complexity. And they are people who have a life that is here and now, who have material needs and who can no longer bear the patriotic dreams of those who see a lot of Spanish on TV3, who consider that here a lot of Spanish is spoken and who consider that taking care of health is not taking care of the fundamentals. Having said all this, we will support the whole motion put forward by Mrs Ibarra. We thank you for accepting our amendment to point 5. We regret that he did not accept the amendment to point 6, in which we proposed to encourage an immediate reduction in rent income through a temporary tax incentive and they preferred to rely on this government's dialogue with owners' associations. As we are convinced of this measure, we have tabled a motion for a resolution, which is already registered, so that we can discuss it more carefully and try to convince them for the next occasion. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I have already asked the Government of the Generalitat to land once and for all and to stop blaming other administrations for not resolving what is their responsibility, because they owe it to the citizens. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, to fix his position, he has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos the deputy Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.44.0	Thank you. I wanted to start the intervention by making a reminder, and it is that who has the competence to live in Catalonia is the Generalitat de Catalunya, because from some of the interventions we have felt that it is not so, that effectively, it seems that the Generalitat de Catalunya does not have the skills in living. As long as we ask to have more capacity to do and there is no re-centralisation, and now it turns out that the whole problem of housing is the fault of the State, when competition is the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia, and it is a simple, very simple reminder. And competition is a resource issue, yes, but not just. It's also a matter of regulation and regulation. And, if they want, we can do a whole list of what mechanisms the Catalonian Government can have to get more resources for housing policies. This late we have an inquiry and we will have the opportunity just to exchange impressions with the councillor, but just as easily as we can put out the Generality's ability to sanction empty floors. Just as simple as that. How many expeditions of sanction has the Government of Catalonia applied on 24/2015? It's a way to get resources, for example. We're talking about priorities. How much money? How many housings and how many help to lodge could be done with the money that will be allocated to the expansion of the C-32? If we want to talk about political priorities, for example. That the Generalitat, which has the skills in housing the only answer that always has to pull pilots out proves that it does not have the ability to give answer to the problem of housing that is living Catalonia. We've been telling him for a long time. It is that for me, on behalf of the government groups, what would really make me think a lot is to review the housing proposals that their groups brought to the reconstruction plenary. « Is this really all they have to propose to deal with the housing emergency and with the reconstruction and the right to housing of people living in Catalonia from the pandemic we have been through? We might have to check them out, but I don't know if they're aware of it. If the honourable Member has presented the Socialist Party of Catalonia to you practically do them a favor, because those points that are so outraged and that they do not intend to vote for you because they say that this is to carry the Generality with the competence that it has, it is that they do not even come to quantify. Or else, they haven't even been quantified. What's more, it's really so hard to understand that they can't vote for a few points that they say... It's that I'll read them, because after hearing the interventions I've heard... "Put in the necessary means to evaluate and process the requests submitted according to the published call of help – such as – "to ensure the follow-up to people who have submitted requests so that they are not left out for formal errors of presentation. What's the blame of this for the Spanish State? So, what's the blame of this for the Spanish State because they say they don't vote for this point because the Spanish State is a recenter and there's a tax deficit? It's so basic. If what we were to do was a criticism of the PSC's motion, it's basic, because it's very simple. Because they are measures that are so from Perogrullo – with forgiveness – that it was obvious that the one they were looking for was the maximum possible support from this chamber to these measures. Because it's practically impossible to vote against it. And it seems that the government groups voted against things as simple as raising the suspension published on May 29 that widens the deadline to be able to submit new demands. If the same advisor announced that he would allocate 5_million extras. The 14,5_million are external to the resources of the State Pact. Exterior, this year's us. Maybe when you compare the deputy to the previous years... you compare the money the Catalonian Government has allocated to help the loguer and see how the line did so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's not. All the families who were left out of the help of last year that were precisely organized to report that they knew when the year was over that they were left out of the help of the lodger. Among them, people older than sixty-five years. It's just that the call that's coming up now is not a call to say wow, we've thought about how we can meet the big people, it's to clear up the shortcomings of last year's call. You can also explain to me why you fell as close as you can to accessing the help of logging the fact that you are a victim of male violence. Because this has also fallen from the requirements. He no longer computes, let's say, he no longer gives point to being a victim of male violence to access the help of logger. Why? So, there are a lot of things that can be done to the Generalitat de Catalunya and that are not only resourceful, that is also normative, that, honestly, I don't understand the vote of the governing groups on this young man. And I also want to take advantage of the fact that we are here to address the Socialist Party and the rest of the groups. There's a big challenge we've got, and it's the regulation of the lodgers. And that's in agreement with the government, and Minister Ábalos said the month of March that they would work for him for the summer. We understand that the pandemic may have taken a long time, but honestly, we believe that it is the compromise of this whole chamber to move forward in the regulation of the loguers, which is a structural measure, and not just palliative measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.46.0	Well, good morning. The truth is, I suppose the people who are seeing us are also ashamed of this debate. That if it's the State's fault, that if it's now the Generality's fault... maybe it's more of a matter of planting it in the face of real estate power, urban speculation and tourist speculation. This proposal, yes, is obviously to be voted for. See, they opened some help to help people who couldn't afford the logger because it was in a complicated situation, after the health emergency situation, and at the end of it didn't get a_me, so, for the lawsuit, it went and this help is suspected. Yes, the assumptions that they jointly approved Catalonia in Comú We can with the Republican Left and with Junts for Catalonia for 48_million euros to the Circuit de Catalunya, to Formula 1. The truth is that it is a matter of political priorities, and here we see that the right to housing is not a political priority. In fact, if we stop to think in economic terms, because before they say, "No, it's the competition that's not who, it's the state that gave it 14,5_million. No, it's just that now more than five million have been added, it's clear, we don't have any money... Mirin, transferring responsibility to private owners. And in this way, you don't have to spend money. How's that? So, very easy: if a person is going to ask for help to pay for the logger of a thousand-cents, then they will have to pay a quantity. If you tell the owner that the price of the logger, as well as the maximum, can be six-hundred euros, then surely the help that must be given to this person is much less. The part of the responsibility will be transferred to the owner or the owner. Not a small owner, no, we're talking about big tenors. Also small owners, obviously, because what can't be is that the loggers are at these prices. Has anyone been looking for a logger contract? Between the requests that you are asked for and what is worth logging, you cannot access a logger to live. And, therefore, this situation has to be addressed, it has to be resolved. And it seems that we are discussing, to see who does it first, to see if it regulates first the prices of the State, to see if it regulates first the prices of the Generality... Mirin, this chamber tried. And with the only ones who tried to settle the price regulation of the logger was with the real estate agencies. All social movements against. See if we can make it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.48.0	Thank you; thank you, President. Well, obviously, with the health crisis, it came after an economic crisis. And, with the economic crisis, what it does is accentuate the problem of housing. Problem that we have already come to grips with the previous crisis that began in 2008 and that we have, we have dissipated. With the generality, we've dissipated opportunities. Opportunities with? So, with six years of economic recovery and from which, therefore, the Generality, for four years, chose not to have assumptions and, therefore, not to be able to provide certain policies that were to be structural. And obviously, the fact that there was no structural housing policy means that the problems that started in 2008 will continue to take place in 2019. And, to which we have a new crisis for the front, these problems obviously become more acute. And what we can't do, what the government can't do, is give the skeleton to those needy, give the skeleton to those people who wait and trust that the Administration can give them a hand at the moment when they go through a complicated situation. Before this fact, now at this moment we understand that there are two attitudes. We have already seen the attitude of the government, the attitude of the groups that support the government, which is to take 'the chips from above. It's Madrid's fault, it's the others' fault, and they'll either blow themselves up or they'll fix it. But there has to be another attitude, which is to try to repose it. And this is what we think they're asking for the motion for a resolution, trying to put it right. That we will vote in favour, more so because, it has been said and repeated, it is precisely the Generality that has competences in housing and skills, also in social policy. So we don't need to blame ourselves, but what we need to do is see what we can do to try to help those Catalans and Catalans who have difficulty paying for the logger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, in the last term, to pronounce on the papers, has the word of new MP Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.50.0	Thank you. Well, he's got a little time. Miri, Mrs Segovia, it's true, they're very sensile proposals. But we precisely posed them because we feared that even these sensible proposals by the government would not be completed. And that's why we put them in, so we could vote for them. Of course, we have accepted some ideas and I appreciate them to the groups that have presented them and that, therefore, we have finally been able to reach agreement. But some others don't. And I won't have time to disassemble the false data Mr. Rodriguez gave us in his intervention. He spoke to us about the extraordinary 32_million euros that the Generalitat poses there, or that the Government of the Generalitat poses. And it's fake, it doesn't pose 32 million extraordinarily. In fact, they are lines of help that already existed and the only one that has done is to advance these aids. And we must remember that, on the part of the State, the 57_millions have already been entered, the corresponding 57_millions have long been contributed, from the State's housing plan. The 14_million_i_mig of euros, Mr Rodriguez, told us that they were wreaths. So, if you're under 14 million euros, what about the government's 5 million dollars? We told them in the inquiry and we repeated it: the Government of the Generality has skills in housing and has resources that are suitable and those that come to it, too, from the State. We speak of the 57_millions, we speak of the 14_millions, and we also speak of the 3,200_millions. Will it be possible, counselor, to be able to obtain 40_millions, which are missing, for the help already presented in this call, to meet the needs of the habitat of these 3,200_millions? Therefore, it is not a question of resources, but a question of priorities. And what's dishonest, Mr. Morral, and what's cynical, is to take away his responsibilities, his skills, and leave people without the ability to cope with the expenses of a habitation. For this government, housing has never been a priority, and yet it has competition. It seems that the legislature is over and the time will come to balance its management. And the balance isn't good. This government also suspects and suspects in habitation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy]] [[302-00216/12]] After this debate, let's move on to the next point, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on industrial policy, formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In order to expose it, the honourable Member Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, the crisis of the coronavirus has led to a new economic and social crisis. Just as we are in the midst of this health crisis, we in Parliament are going to approve the presuppositions for 2020, with which, given that neither 18 nor 19 were there, it was already an important tape. But everyone recognized that those assumptions were completely out of date with the situation that we were living at that time and the situation that would come from that time. Therefore, the first thing we do in this young man is to put on the net what I think everyone already knows and what we have already said, and what we have already given in other initiatives, which is to say, listen to us: to reform these assumptions and, moreover, we point out two lines that we believe must be priorities for reforming these assumptions; it is more social policy, but also more impulse of economic activity to enable the economy to reactivate and therefore, also, to improve the welfare of the city's conjunction, starting with growth and job creation. This is the first point of this young man. The second point makes more specific reference to the industrial area. Why in the industrial sphere? Because it is the economic environment that has more to do with the growth of the Catalan economy. And what's going on – the past year was already going on – is that they're playing, like at least, the big alarm light to say: let's pay attention to the industrial sector, because there's things that haven't just worked out. The economy is growing, but the industrial sector is growing less than the economy. And therefore, there are worrying elements. With the crisis of the coronavirus, this is increasing and in the last few weeks, with the crisis for the announcement of the Nissan march, it is an important time for the automotive sector, yes, but also for the economic sector. We have tools, like the Pact for Industry, signed in 2017. Pact for industry that had not had assumptions, because it was approved 2017, when the assumptions of 2017 were already approved. There were no presuppositions in 2018, there were no presuppositions in 2019 and there were presuppositions in 2020. So we understand that it is important, presuppositions of 2020 that, precisely, in the industry support programme, they suffer a setback in relation to the presuppositional endowment that there was in 2017, right? And, therefore, we believe that it is important to complete the presupposed commitments of the Pact for Industry in these special circumstances. But it also balances, balances the compliment of the pact and balances the presuppositional execution of this pact. We also spoke, we also pointed out, in relation to the industrial revolution in which we are immersed, that of industry 4.0, that of the Internet of Things, that of robotics, that of technologies. And in this sense, we understand that an important effort must be made in this sense. And, man, one of the industry 4.0 initiation programs that was called up was exhausted in a pretty immediate way. That's a good sign, because I mean you're successful, but you also tell us: listen, so we certainly need to make a bigger effort in this sense. And that, in addition, is in touch with the Nissan crisis, where is the emphasis that precisely this transformation into industry 4.0 can be a way out for the auxiliary industries that serve Nissan, right? We are also talking about the Mobility and Automotive Support Programme, with a budget of EUR 2.9 million– EUR 2.9 million. The Councillor, when presenting this programme publicly, or in committee, said that, at least – at least – at least – 51 million euros were needed, the year 2020. Therefore, we understand that it is important to improve the funding of this program. And then, obviously, when we heard the Councilor or the President, or the Councilor of Economics, say: "This time we will not detail anything, the same day that they approve the Knowledge Pact, reorient or reprogramme resources from scientific centres, they reorient them towards Greeting. No, listen, I'm telling you other things, but I'm not telling the impulse to the economy, which is the main thing. And I finish: obviously, as the assumptions are a zero sum game, if we have to allocate more resources to Health and we have to allocate more resources to Economy, they have to come from somewhere. And that's why the day, in paragraph 3: they pass the resources of identity policies, they pass the resources of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, and to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.54.0	[[The speaker's taken off the mask.]] That's compulsory... thank you, President. Good morning, counselor; good morning, deputies and deputies. Bédel Subgroupe Parlamentari of the People's Party presents to us a motion, a motion on industrial policy that is a topic that we work on, or talk about many weeks ago, surely because many groups, among them that I represent, therefore, believe that industrial policy should have more to do with the policies of this government. We have not debated enough, especially in the whole process of presupposition, in which we believe, therefore, that we cannot keep the figures we had in the last few years. I would like to remind you that, in 2010, the industry assumption was 167_million euros and now we are in 52. That is to say, there has been a significant reduction in two years, just when we should have made important investments to help, for example, among other things, make the transformation of the automotive sector, right? Just a few weeks ago, the councilwoman presented us with an automobile plan that, it must be said, was very well worked, very rigorous, with a lot of information and with proposals for the future. But this should probably have been done before, and we should have invested before, so that we are in a different position today. Anyway, like we can't go back, what we have to do is try not to repeat the mistakes. And, therefore, put more resources in the field of industry. Our papers on this P.P.'s motion that, from the start, therefore, seemed good to us, have gone a little on this line. For one thing, therefore, put more resources into the automotive sector. The councillor explained Pla Otto to us and asked us 50_million euros a year. We believe that this is very fair and that, in order to make an injection and after the debts that SEAT placed on us yesterday presented this reversal of 5,000_million for the electric vehicle, but he said to us: "Administrate, do the work and, therefore, reverse, also, I think 50 is short. That's why we put 125, which is a theme that the People's Party has accepted, because that would mean 500_million euros in four years. This is already starting to be a sifra a little serious, from a country that wants to be industrial. And, therefore, we here believe that we need more ambition and, in this reorientation and re-orientation that the Government of the Generality has to make of the presuppositions 2020 with the resources – among other things – that will come from the Government of the State, it seems to us that this should be one of the priorities. And it's already approved in a previous Socialist Group motion and I hope it's back to approval. For us it is key to put more resources. In the end, if we believe in politics, it is demonstrated by putting resources; they do not make great speeches, because the words are carried away by the wind. So, we have resources for the industrial sector. And it's hard for us to know that there is no Vice President Aragones because he, who is ultimately the one who will end up negotiating this reorientation, this priority, has to take into account that if we really want to be an industrial country we need to put more resources, right? Speaking to Congressman Rodriguez said: "You mean, 125_millions? They won't approve of this, will they? Because it's true that it costs a lot in this government to get one more euro, but it's true that this point has already been approved and I hope, therefore, that today it is back to approval and given a boost and that, then, in the presuppositional modification, you are aware of what the Parliament says, and yet we don't have much hope because we already know this government, so how much less this Parliament, right? But if we approve it again, it'll be the second time and we'll have a little bit more strength. We have also asked one thing, for us important, that is to reduce the deadline for presenting the complimentary report and the presuppositional execution of the National Plan for Industry, which the Councillor knows well from her previous stage. We believe that it is very important that this can be done quickly and with a little more zeal than the People's Party demanded. Among other things, because 2021 we have the review of the National Pla for industry, right? And the unions, with Nissan's news, therefore, made a cry to the said one: "Listen, we will leave the national plan on the table because, if in the end Nissan leaves, it means that something, among all of us, we have not just done well, and it is true that Nissan's decision is taken by the company and, therefore, also to lay the blame or the responsibilities in which it has them, right? But it's a matter of concern to us. We believe that this national plan for industry, which needs to be reviewed, needs to be done as quickly as possible. They have to try to look for all the agreements and consensus and, above all, put assumptions, huh? Not like they did to us or they tricked us three or four years ago, which added up so many things that in the end we didn't even know exactly what was there, right? We have resources if we believe it. And, therefore, this should be one of our priorities. And a third point that we have proposed to the People's Party, which has also accepted us, is all this Feder embolism, this disaster that Economy has brought to an end in these last few weeks, that is to reallocate Feder resources to Covid's expense – when 3,200_millions of US dollars will come to it just for Covid's expense – and, therefore, said: "The government will already approve an agreement to guarantee Feder resources to search centers – above all search projects, which are many resources – and to the territorial specialisation plans that drive the gatherings. Well, then we want it to be approved. That you don't have any guarantees, but with the least we try to approve, because it seems to us that it's just that. So, we wanted to complement a little bit of this young man that we hope is able to approve and, above all, that the government after applying it, which is the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return to Mrs Aurora Carbonell's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you. On this motion of the People's Party on industrial policy, for the most part, but not for the most part, we will vote in favour because we obviously agree. We have a common denominator about what we want to do, about industrial policy, about what the government is already doing at this time and where we want to go. Industry is an essential component of the Catalan economy, with a long tradition, as we know, to date. The industry's share of Catalonia's gross value added is 20,7_per_cent. And, in fact, until the arrival of this pandemic continued to grow, still now, and winning over the Catalan economy during the period 2013-2017. Despite everything, despite the global trade affluence during 2018, it continued to grow in a 1.1_per_cent. Thus, we have a 20,7_percent of the industry's gross value added and a 17,7_percent of the manufacturing, located in Catalonia on the middle of the European Union, the euro area. As we have said, of a long tradition still present but, obviously, we must look to the future. The occupation of the high and middle-high technology industry represents 6.8_percent of the total occupation. Therefore, it is an important percentage, which, moreover, is higher than the rest of the State and also in Spain or Italy. Our task, in fact, is to guarantee this industrial future for Catalonia. I want to remember the words, as economist Miquel Puig reminded us earlier, who said: "If we want to follow a country that is ahead, it is essential that we follow an industrial country and, if we want to overcome the fragility of our economy, we must increase the weight of our industry. So, we're betting for industry, we're betting for sectors in which we excel, and we're putting all the necessary infrastructure, which is a lot, so we can keep up with the momentum of our economy. 2017 – talked before, didn't it? – the National Pact for Industry was approved and a substantial part of what this People's Party motion calls for is precisely to implement various actions that are taken in this pact, isn't it? : guarantee us the presuppositional execution, inform us of the Parliament and promote the sector of the automotive and mobility, which was already presented in this room on the 27th of June. Therefore, we will approve most of these points that went in this direction. Anyway, we wanted to make two points. First of all, we need to be aware that all the industrial promotion policies that have taken place so far have certainly not been enough and, therefore, now is a moment, surely, so as not to take advantage of this moment of dam. We must bet on an industrial policy, to move towards an economic model, above all a sustainable economic model, also in industrial policy, and a policy, above all, of high added value, which allows us to compete in attraction, also in reverse and not rely solely on reducing labour costs. So, we want to recover all the tools that we have at our disposal; to continue with the deployment, obviously, of the National Pact for Industry and to boost the Mobility Platform, of course, but also to promote a strategic investment plan, entering the capital of companies and ensuring that the public investment that is made has also a public return. In fact, this has recently served as an example to us so that we do not go back to what happened precisely with Nissan, who with twenty years has rejected up to 74.5_million euros only from the Generality and up to 180_million euros if we count the transfers of the Catalan Government and the Spanish Government. Therefore, we need to ensure the link and conditionality of public support to multinational investment projects, to also have this public return. Second place, resources. There has been a lot of talk about resources, a lot of resources, obviously, to make a strong industrial policy. So, we fully agree on this, because, obviously, more social policy and boost to the economy. Now, we need to guarantee these resources to do so, and that's what we found missing in this young man. Direct management of European rescue funds, suspension of presuppositionary stability rules, limitation of debt deficit, expenditure rule, guarantee the liquidity of the Generality..., we need resources and, obviously, we need infrastructure; without infrastructure we cannot make a good industrial policy. And finally, the third point, in this yes that obviously we will vote that no, because it is fixed, the expenditure that is made in external relations planned for 2020 is 18,9_million euros, can say 19_million euros. The planned and unexecuted investment for the State up to €1.092_million, the import of the 2017 VAT that Montoro has stayed and Montero has not yet returned us is €443_million. Therefore, we are no longer talking about the structural deficit of the fiscal deficit. External offices are a great support for the industrial economy and we need to increase them and follow them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.58.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, allow me to begin today this intervention by conveying the condolences to the family of the Iqoxe worker, on behalf of Junts for Catalonia and in my own, and also to all his companies, workers who are living very complicated moments around the company, but also from the chemical industry in Tarragona, and this is absolutely positive news for the sector, and in particular to send, let us say, this support to the family of this worker. Look, we have talked about industrial policy many times in this chamber, and I think that, with all the materials that each group has, it is very clear that we agree that it is a priority for the country and that it probably does not have the premise, as has also been said many times since the department, that it would be good to make this industrial policy a reality. First of all, we agree that industrial economies are stronger before the recession, we agree that they are an important boost in the search for innovation, we agree that it is used to balance trade balances, but we also agree that no doubt they generate skilled, stable and quality jobs. But now, this crisis of the Covid that is affecting us in these last months lies in an uncertain scene and faces, according to the forecasts of the European Union, a drop in GDP over the '11_per_cent. So, let's move on to a much more complicated scene. With all this, Catalonia is one of the few regions that complement the objectives of the European Union to make industry account for 20_percent of GDP. The pes of the industrial sector today already exceeds – already exceeds – this xifra. Without a doubt, we all believe that Catalonia is an industrial country and would like to highlight the fact that the National Pact for Industry – this young man has also come out – was born in the past legislature, that with the consent of this parliamentary arc, but also economic and social agents knew how to find a reference_mark and a full route for industrial policy in this country. For what you do to this young man presented, Mr. Rodriguez, I just wanted to start by saying that I have been pleasantly surprised by all, the way and the ways to present it. In many ways we agree, and I am saying this precisely because it is the same party that its president, Mr Rajoy, was already talking about that independence had « gripped the Catalan economy and that for this reason we had to deploy 155, to protect ourselves from all this; the same president and the same group, the People's Party, which did not take three days to pull forward with the decree of escape from the workers, which has gone very well from the department, after the U of October, and which, by the way, the same progressive government and we can still pull it back. But, look, I suppose, given the circumstances that we are living in Catalonia, the most intelligent is to look for points of connection and consensus that has provided us with precisely this full route of the National Pact for Industry, without any doubt, with a firm and decisive job from the department led by Constellera Chacón, so as to age for our industrial model, with all that this entails, at last, very often, with the migrating supposition that many of us are continually saying. It is not free and it must be acknowledged that, despite the pandemic, the country continues to be an important area of investment attraction in southern Europe, and that is not free. There's a lot of work going on, Counselor, we know, and that's why we can celebrate the SEAT announcement but also the consolidation of the Mobile for the year you go to Barcelona. They've accepted, Mr. Rodriguez, the SCP papers; I won't go in there, Mrs. Alicia has explained it perfectly. Just know that for our part we will abstain, we are absolutely in agreement with the first three points. We will abstain from the point of consistency with what we have said and with regard to the presuppositional issue. However, Juntes for Catalonia will not fail to ask the vice president for these moneys to pull the plan forward in this case too of the car. Obviously, at the point of the Feder they did not accept our task, but we cannot vote against it, so we will abstain from it, because we are absolutely in agreement that after this reprogramming we should see as establishing alternate mechanisms. And obviously, we can't match the third point for a model theme. I'm not going to debate it here because it went much further than industrial policy. I believe that in this episode of global dependence it was very clear the importance of the foreign offices but also from the Diplomacy for the people of Catalonia who were outside and had to return. With all this, we are generally very much in agreement with what they are planting on this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position further has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.60.0	Councillor, Members, Members, we are debating the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party on industrial policy, and we must say, above all after all that has been said in the past few days and even weeks, that this young man leaves a respite of déjà-vu. In fact, many of the points that we have taken to the vote have already been voted on, many of them favorably, on previous occasions. I wouldn't mean that you looked like a toilet to the proposed group, on the contrary; what shows is that for a lot of people saying things and for a lot of agreements coming from this room, the government goes to its own. The government must above all manage and, little joke, manage more than 30,000_millions. And how do you do it? For example, a button. President Tora went and promised to Mr Canadell, before yesterday, EUR 2.5 million for the chambers, institutions which, as you know, the councillor had expressly excluded from her public funding. I have to assume he's got his girl's cartoon face on him. I remember that the automobile pla was presupposed with the fanciful assumptions approved for this year with the staggering xifra of 2,9_million euros. What should the automotive sector think, valued by the government of Mr. Torra and Mr. Aragonès in 400,000 euros more than the political support to the new delve of the "runaway to Waterloo", and why wander away leaving pearls like you used to us or why come your masks to TV3? And that's what you have to ask what you have to do with the People's Group's motion? So, you see that the government does not govern, has neither ruled nor will govern Catalonia; they only use it, unfortunately, for their private and party interests, and tastes hard. It's hard to tell, since they're making it a friend of the worst health and economic crisis that men have experienced in the last hundred years. He knows hard, because this Parliament, in good faith, has put – many of us, the great majority – all its efforts to achieve transversal agreements so as to get out of this skyrocket the fastest and lose the least possible lead. It tastes hard, since this young man is one more of these actions that seek the common good, the recovery of the Catalan economy, and we are very afraid that the dream of the righteous will remain, like the rest. We have given them our hands, we have told them actively and passively that in order to rebuild and reboot the country they count on us; that even though there are irreconcilable differences, for the sake of the country we will do what is necessary. They don't lock our rings. There's no effort to have a better reward. There are no sacrifices with more return than healing lives and preserving the well-being of our fellow citizens. What have we had, over and over, so far? Res. Well, nothing, nothing no; they've dedicated themselves to meeting us. And I find it hard to say that, as much as we've met, we don't have the feeling that you've served much more. Yesterday they told them: they approved more than twenty decrees of the law and did not call anyone of the opposition; they did not call to see that they were challenging our opinion. We gave them more than 1,200 proposals on the occasion of the assumptions. Not one, not just one, was accepted. We did it again when we met with you. Right now. But we don't know whether or not he served for nothing. You mean this is what the citizenry wants, now, what they're doing with? It is clear that we would agree with the proposals of this young man. They are reasonable proposals, the vast majority, and they are insoluble. How can we not agree to ensure the full implementation of the commitments entered into in the Pact for Industry, if we ask for it years ago? How can we not agree that you make a report if the transparency in this aspect is that of a smoked glass and we have no idea of its compliment? How can we not agree with industry 4.0's impulse, increase investments to the Idiad or guarantee the Feder funds, if we want to approve it four days ago in another ple? How can we not agree that it stops squandering precious resources with the ideological devices of pseudostate such as Diplomat or TV3? How do you not agree that the Automotive Support Program or mobility has adequate funding? By the way, the always providential SEAT appeared yesterday and we were deployed with the 5,000_million. Let us hope that the administrations are at the height of the circumstances and that the batteries are laid, since opportunities like this are not produced every day. Certainly, and in relation to the repeated slogan that is coming out that we are the region of southern Europe preferred to invest, let us celebrate it, eh? And as long as we celebrate. But also, reading the report, we have to say it went a lot further than that. From this report, and when we go out as first, there have been eight Spanish regions in the first two. And Barcelona is the second of five Spanish cities located in the first two places in the same report. Mrs Chacón, without demerging the first Catalan place: the competitive advantage is Spain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the return for the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, Councillors, I believe that Nissan's lockdown has certainly accelerated a debate on industry that we have had for years in this country. I remember that in 2019 the EROs to the industry increased by more than 70_per_cent compared to the previous year, and that means that Nissan's shutdown has been very hard news, or Nissan's shutdown has been very hard news, but the industrial problem we already had in our country, which was already expressed in many EROs that we have been discussing in this plenary room. This means that we are gradually dismantling high-value production sectors. I would like to recall that in pre-Covid Catalonia, in 2019 Catalonia, 17 percent of the workers in this country were poor, because we had dismantled high-value production sectors, job stability and higher wages, and we had replaced them throughout a series of precarious economies, when they were not plataforms, start-ups that didn't even comply with the labour regulations of this country, etc. And so we have a structural problem that goes beyond the news that we can read and that has more media impact. And we had the clear objectives, the Government, and the European Union, and the State: to reindustrialize Europe, to reindustrialize Catalonia on the basis of knowledge, to bet for the value industry in R & D+i, on the basis of sustainable growth and, therefore, to an energy transition and a circular economy, and on the basis of an inclusive growth, which generates better working conditions than the non-industrialised economy in our country. And we had a clear instrument, which is the National Pact for Industry. Surely few territories have an instrument that can be discussed in a plenary room, and all parliamentary groups agree and all social sectors – unions, employers – agree and are shared by Parliament and the Government. So we had objectives and we had an instrument, and it didn't work. When, as a result of this motion and of which we have presented ourselves, the final balance of the National Pact for Industry is present, we shall see that we have incompliments, that all that we have done as the Department of Industry more or less has continued, but that all the strategic objectives have been incomplete: the strategic objectives that they have to do with Industry 4.0, incomplete; with the industrial transformation of our product fabric, with the energy transition and the circular economy, incomplete. In fact, we have not yet completed what costs no money, such as having a resource agency, having a new law of waste in Catalonia, having a new law of circular economy that ordered the management of waste in our country and that allows to generate different synergies in our industry. We have not fulfilled nor what you have to see with the legislative impulse of the Government, with that one can no longer hide in the presuppositional difficulties that we have had every year, but he has to see with the political will to promote the necessary transformations in our country on behalf of the Government. And we haven't completed R & D+i either. We can only see the different reports of innovative regions published by the European Union a year ago and see that we have lost more than 13_percent in R & D & D & e policies in our country since the start of retailing, that we have gone from competing in R & D & e with northern Europe and European production centres to competing with Eastern Europe and the non-industrialised periphery of Europe in two years. And I think this is a heavyweight that will cost us a lot to pay in this country. We share the need to ambitiously deploy the automotive plan – and with this I'm done – because, just as with the National Pact for Industry, we have all the elements: we have political agreement, we have agreement between Parliament and the Government, we have clear diagnostics and objectives about what industry needs because the productive transition, which will last yes or yes in the next five, ten, twenty years, does not involve a social dislocation for Catalonia. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] nor a loss of product texture. We'll just make an incise, which we haven't done as a puzzle – and with that I'm done. Aid to the industry sector must incorporate commitments: either public participation commitments or commitments to maintain employment. Because all concertation policy is a policy of compromise. The defense of the fabric product is a general interest...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.63.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.64.0	...but it is also the interest of the fabric produced by the involvement of public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now a turn for the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.66.0	Thank you, President. We want to explain, if a separate vote is called, what will be the meaning of our vote. On the first of the points, obviously we will vote in favour of it – we assume that all groups are in favour of more social policy. He points out to us that the proposal comes from the political group that more detailed has made to the Spanish State on social policies. About the second of the points, we'll do a abstention, and we'll explain why. We are practically in agreement with all and every one of the proposals that are made in each of the sub-points, but there is practically no concrete conclusion on the same proposals at the end of the 125_millions, which are indeed concrete through the acceptance of cluster number 2 of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress. And in relation to the third of the points, obviously we will vote against. Since the UPC never accompanied the repression nor the will to criminalize neither the Diplomat nor Catalan delegations by the sole fact of being Catalan at a time that governs are political groups that claim independence. What's not in the file and that we've already claimed, just a year ago, in another Popular Party's file on the same topic? So look, you need to protect industrial polygons because they can't be the object of speculation, so you need to defend the productive economy versus the speculative economy, and you need to have a look in which industry is not only business policies but essentially political for workers and workers, and therefore this need to repeal the counter-reform work. The next answer will be the deputy proposing, but the scientific data, official: 2012-2014, occupation destruction; 2014-2015, transformation into precarious occupation, and now at the door of a new job loss start. And lastly, and we do not want to forget it, we ask the government to implement the proposed law approved by this group to repeal Article 51 of the Staff Regulations. And they'll let me finish with another thought. Look, it gives us the feeling that Members and Members are not at the height of what is happening in this country in relation to 25,000 work places that depend on Nissan. We haven't been there, we're not there, and we feel like we're not there and we're not there, and so that doesn't only worry us that we should be ashamed of ourselves. If we do not act actively on this, this parliamentary subgroup no longer knows what we will do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. And at the end of the term, and to pronounce on the issues, Congressman Rodriguez has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.68.0	Thank you, President. Well, there have been presentations by the Socialists and the Republic and Junta Groups for Catalonia. On the Socialists Group, there have been three papers that incorporate all three of them, as such, into the motion. The first is because in accounts of giving a four-month term to inform of the degree of compliment and the presuppositional execution of the Industrial Pact is done in two months, and almost, almost, if I could correct I would say that they do it in fifteen days, because, if not, it will not give us time to see it. The second point relates to the financing of the Automotive Support Programme, which is certain that when the Member says '125_millions', I say 'well, we have 51', that's what the Councilwoman told us that she needed for the year 2020, but what I have just been convinced is: Parliament has not asked 125, so it is worth ratifying this Parliament's agreement. And the third emena, which related to the Feder fund, also linked to the emena that Juntes presented for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. We accept that of the Socialist Group, we do not accept that of Junts for Catalonia and the Republic Group. Why? Home, why does the Socialist Group say: 'Ecculti'm, besides, of the research projects, they have also reoriented, reprogrammed, eh? – as I would say – « foundations that go together, foundations that go to territorial competitiveness. And, therefore, we understand that. What we cannot accept is the outpouring of groups that support the Government, because it says "establishing alternative financing mechanisms and, therefore, means explicitly recognizing that these funds are lost and that we need to look for others. So, mirin, no. These funds, which are not lost. Vaginate him to look for others to do what he needs to do. And that's why at the third point we said: "How can you go looking for these funds? In process – in process. Deyora Carbonell : « 2013-2017 the industry guanya pes in the conjunction of the economy. That's right. As of 2017 he loses weight. Is it the fault of the trial? Partly. Everything? No, obviously not. But, in part, yes. And in the end what Rajoy does is a consequence of the acts that are here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.69.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.70.0	I mean, Rajoy doesn't care that it's not provoked by the acts from here. That is why the third point, which speaks of less process, is essential. And I finish very quickly, President. Mrs. Pallarès, I know they always do, but they don't. They don't confound Action's offices with political delegations. We've never talked about shutting down Action's offices. We're talking about closing down the offices, the political delegations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.71.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.72.0	... that they have no skills or serve absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.73.0	Thank you. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the political priorities of the Health Department and the necessary reforms of the health system]] [[302-00217/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, specifically to the split, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the political priorities of the Health Department and the necessary reforms of the health system. The motion was presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos; to defend it, the deputy Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.74.0	Good morning. From Catalonia to Comú We can make it clear that the best way we can aggravate the efforts of health professionals, socio-health professionals, of cures during this health crisis is to do everything in our hands to strengthen public services, especially the public health system. It is the only real guarantee for the right to the salvation of all citizens, but also for the better working conditions of those who work there. The pandemic has had a brutal effect on the system, but the weaknesses of this system came from before. There are structural causes, and that is why, as a group, we have promoted a specific motion on health so that we have been able, as soon as possible, and that is why we are collecting on this motion as many immediate proposals as structural proposals. Because it will be no use just looking at the elements of the moment, the elements of the emergence and the elements of the health crisis, if we are not also putting the needle wire to compromise a minimum of health reversal higher than the present for the next few years, with measures to reverse the multiple cares of the mercantilization of our system, ending with those outsourcings to those who negotiate with our salvation and who still suffer. Because we need to review the current governance model of the health system to clarify this confus model that we have in Catalonia, to bet for planning, managing and providing public, and, when it is not possible, and justified, controlled concertation without space for the soul of work. We need to improve the working conditions of all professionals in the system, of the whole system. We need to make an important leap in real elements of coordination and integration of the social and health system. We need to improve governance, transparency, participatory governance. And all this is done by strengthening primary and community care, by efficiency, by efficiency, because they are now receiving more responsibility, strengthening the public health network, the mental health network and research and investigation. All this is what we propose in this young man from Catalonia in Comú Pode. We're planting model reforms and a whole new model plantation. Because we believe that we can respond to this challenge at this point in time from these structural reforms. It cannot be returned to the point before this crisis and, therefore, that these weakened ones have proved themselves during the health crisis, and we cannot get out of it by turning another one at the same point. But there are also proposals to put out fires that have been created because of the bad management of the Health Department during this health crisis, during the last months and weeks. That's why we're voting today, too, that Ferroser's contract is terminated immediately to follow up on the positive contacts between the figure of the scouts, who are coming forward. That this money, this EUR 17,700,000, is destined for primary and public health to be able to make from the public health system, from the public system, this prevention work, that the buds that there are become important concerns or in confinement as we are passing on to Segria. That's doing an external assessment of the Covid expense payment to the health centers, concerted, private socio-sanitary, and also the girl expense for the SEM during this crisis through extraordinary lives. That the gratification scheme that has been planned for health professionals and also residents, residents care, is modified, because we consider it classist, and that is not done taking into account the occupational categories at the same time that it is values including those collections that have been excluded. And it's also a guarantee that health care is maintained in the hands of the area's primary care and, therefore, that it's not being renewed with residential care teams that manage private mutuals. There have been the externalisations and the details that have weakened the public health system for so many years. Externalizations and details that respond to a neoliberal model of public services weakened because other vinguess and fessins negotiate with our rights. Our new normality isn't the old one. We can't go back to the point before the Covid crisis. We need to captivate the model, we need to captivate the focus, strengthen the public, demerchantize, more resources, more investment, better working conditions, more rights for citizens and workers, better guaranteed, and more public control of everything that is paid with public money. We have all reflected on this young man, and today all groups will have to pronounce on controversial issues, but also on the model, because we can't get out of here just looking at the present, the current moment, but also what future we want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.75.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.76.0	...because this marks the working conditions of the people who today have to take us out of this crisis of the present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.77.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.78.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Members, Members, we discuss this motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can after the debate and approval of the motions for resolution of the Extraordinary Ple on the Covid. Many of the measures that were proposed, also in the Extraordinary Plenary of the Covid, came out approved, but as I say, I think, the Member of Ribas, or in the sense of her words, we would never thank enough to analyze and improve the management of the pandemic, nor would we insist enough to attend to everything that can bring us the future, and, therefore, as we have to deal with it. We were also discussing this motion after a week's term where, as a result of an outbreak, the region of Segria was again confined, yesterday we also spoke about it in this House. He's confined himself after denying it three times. Also, the advisor announced yesterday that she is creating the Covid Follow-up Unit, which caused me some confusion, because I don't know if it's just for the Segria, if it's in general, and I just didn't hear what we've done during these five months so now we create the follow-up unit when all our efforts are supposed to be fighting the Covid and its follow-up. They let Lleida's citizens and citizens out of the week when mobility, and we all know it, is one of the most critical elements. The first point of the motion speaks of coordination with the local world, it speaks of avoiding what we are seeing, the position of mayors and mayors, in this case of the Segria, but also of other areas of Catalonia asking for information, asking where they are and, therefore, can not warn a mayor thirty minutes before. We have incorporated two points into this motion because it is doing a comprehensive and cross-cutting approach to Lleida's bud. We want to thank the Member who accepted these two points. We're talking about testing work places, going out and going where they are, doing an integral thing, doing it with Social Afers, doing it with Work, doing it with Greetings, going to look for the possible positives, looking for economic compensation for the days not worked for these workers who, if they don't go there, don't cover, who have nothing more than these and some conditions of life that are not worthy, and why the mechanisms are set up to keep parliamentary groups and mayors and mayors informed as well. A comprehensive approach is what we need in Lleida and Segria, because these days we hear a lot of news, and if we are not curious and do not do well, the doors of populism are well opened with all this theme. This is a motion for management proposals and a better post-Covid stage. I think I did, a stage that's got to be new, don't you? , and foresight also of us buds, but points to the basis of a future governance of the health system. We approved in the extraordinary Ple of the Covid the need for a model of salvation, a new Pla of Salvation. A governance that will have to define the strengthening of public salvation and give it the importance it has, will have to define the role of the primary and give it strength, and above all recognize the professionals with participation and transparency. Covid has put us in front of the Mirall one of the system's forts. We haven't talked about strength and weakness. The major forts have statels and their professional ones. All health and centre management staff have demonstrated that they are well-formed, have skills, self-organisation skills and that no intervention and bureaucracy work better. If there's any lesson in this, this Covid and his management, it's professionalism and professionalism. It's what they've shown us all that every day there is. We share that it is necessary to rethink the expected gratification, that it is necessary to recover rights and lost wages, and that, above all, it is necessary to do so in the framework of social dialogue tables and with the participation of social workers. There was a lack of dialogue and transparency, which I think we said yesterday, I think I said to each plenary that we have not seen the information, but what is most worrying is that last week public health experts warned publicly that the lack of information makes it difficult to contain the Covid. Make a strong statement: "Neither citizens nor public health specialists have a way of knowing exactly what the pandemic situation is. And that, with a new governance of salvation, we cannot tolerate it, just as we cannot tolerate taking on a pandemic without a director of Public Health, nor knowing who at this time controls the tracking. We have a nebula around the track and everyone is seeing that it's the issue that's failing Lleida. Therefore, we will give full support to this young man. There are many points he has dealt with, Mrs Ribas has very well expressed it and, therefore, my group will be supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, I would like to keep the word to Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.80.0	Thank you, President. No one can escape that we are experiencing complex moments, that the Covid has put us on pause and that now we can rebuild the whole system, not just the health care system, and the challenge that we have faced with a weakened system and a pre-characterized system have not been the same if we had a universal system and a strong public system. Despite this, despite the legacy system, the response has been to reorganize primary and hospital care from day to day, to multiply beds, increasing more than 27,000 conventional beds, six-hundred of these reviews, multiplying the system's capacity by three, introducing more than three-thousand professional contracts with special contracts, retaining talent– 50_percent of the residents this year could be contracted, and this did not happen at times before–, with more than 42_million EPIs in the system, purchased by the department, more than all the centers have bought, or by passing a five-thousand PCR encryption per day to twenty-thousand per day. With all this, we can make it clear that the health system has responded, and has responded to the height of what was expected, but that now the system requires us to adapt to live with the virus. We are no longer going through an answer that the citizenry has done in an exemplary way, that can follow, not lower the guard, that we follow with the mask, with distance and with the rent of hands often; but this does not go through continued house confinements, because it is not a sustainable model in time until there is an answer, a vaccine, and we can give it an answer. So this has to be the last resort we can get to. And while we bet on co-responsibility, we don't relax, as I said, but the administrations also give an answer. This is not just about giving responsibility to the citizenry, but that it must be a co-responsibility that we must be able to do together among all. And, therefore, in this coordination between administrations, which is and is to be enhanced when there is a situation that is extraordinary, as the work that we have encountered these days with the confinement of the Segria, not only do we review all the work that is done, that is very much, during the planned months not only of the different departments but also of the municipal world, that we review it, but that we have those resources and the effects that fall, with this extraordinary situation. And this is due to the solidarity of other territories, that they come from other territories at specific times – now to the Segria, but it will pass at other times, in other areas of the territory – but it also passes through this information that the deputies who preceded me claimed. And in this sense, celebrate that the Department of Health also initiates these commissions of work between mayors, public health, primary care and social media, because it is vital that there is this coordination and this information, but that each can make that task that is its competence. Yesterday Mayor Pueyo also spoke of the need to complete the confinements. It is important that if all the people, or most of the people, are doing exemplary conduct, to those who are not doing so..., for public salvation, they can be compatible with the collective effort that we are all doing. This also happens to protect the most vulnerable, if one of the learnings we have is that just of the infections that there was who suffered the most mortality was the big people and the vulnerable people. And that's why it's important the cracking that's already taking place from the territory, and in this case to the residences of the Segria, too, to crack these residences, and that we don't stigmatize. Yesterday the law of a known fashion epidemiology that timers are the key to the problem in Segria. Let's not be mistaken: the key to the problem is not time, it's pre-charitability. And if we don't address precariousness, we won't address the problem, because these people unfortunately saw the situation of labor and social precariousness. And, therefore, if we don't give the fall with this public stigmatization speech, we won't find the final solution. I just said that we will support most of the points, all those who talk about evolution, transformation, approach the system's environment. Councilwoman Vergés said: "This goes through the alliance of the health system, which is underfunded, and that we also need to address this problem of foundations. With only commands that centralize, that understand in a chaotic way and that militarize pressurized wheels, we will not solve the crises that still remain in us; we will make it bet for a public system, a system that has the social policies of the center to strengthen the whole state of welfare. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return for the deputy Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.82.0	President. He'll advise... [[The watchman puts on the mask and takes his eyes off.]] It's just that matching it's all hard, huh? Of the questions raised in this motion, I would like to make a substantive reference to which are the axes of this text, which we mostly share, because some of the questions have already been dealt with in different commissions, and they are a small grouping or coincidence of all these points in this motion. We defended, from Junts to Catalonia, as it could not otherwise be, the role of the local world in all the issues they have to do with pandemic management and pandemic health solutions. And so that the assemblies are activated, at the disposal of the department, in collaboration, in coordination and in continuous communication with the assemblies. Therefore, this is a point that we share, certainly, because we understand that the local world is absolutely strategic, not just because of its proximity to people, but because of their very concrete knowledge of the world that the citizens of each of the cities and towns of our country see. There are three points that make reference to how we integrate the health model and the model of residences, in different aspects: those that they have to deal with the work area, with contracts, with agreements, with which paper develops primary care in these residences. This is a question that has to be made a monographic debate the other day, this is a question that we have to solve, this is a question that the pandemic has finally put on the table in a particularly punishing way. We had a problem with residences, such a time could have been resolved gradually and with participation or with the recording of different assumptions of the Government of the Generality, but we find ourselves at the right time to resolve precisely this integration of the health services in the field of residences. We probably won't have more time to do it. It means that all parliamentary groups have to come to terms with what their proposal is and try to agree to it as much as possible for the benefit of the citizenry here in Parliament. This is a necessary strategic issue, which goes beyond the question of partying and electoral voting. Therefore, we need to put the piles from a parliamentary point of view and on the part of the Government to resolve this issue, which – I insist – the citizens have paid a high price undeserved as a consequence of the Covid pandemic. It also makes reference to strengthening the scope of research, it is obvious that it has to be done. It also makes reference to strengthening the mental health network. Then there is a precise motion referring to the field of mental salvation, which is especially strategic and which has suffered the consequences in a very concrete and specific form of the Covid-19 and, therefore, also needs a specific treatment. It is especially clear and clear that in the field of health, probably more than cross-sectional measures – that they are also very important – and measures affecting different departments, reduce measures applied with surgery. I mean, with the issues that I have to deal with with safety issues that are specific, you can't apply generic criteria, but you have to go precisely to the scene of each of these problems. And at the very end of each of these problems there is always – as has been the case, and I am more particularly pleased that the Comú Group can accept this – that the infra-financing of salvation in Catalonia is not a problem of the Government of the Generality, that there is a hard, ancient, historical under-financing of the system, and that not only with the resources of the Government of the Generality can it be solved. And, therefore, we ask that, as far as they are responsible and as far as the Government of the State is concerned, we finally understand that if we want to make a fundamental review of the health system we will have to make a fundamental review of the health financing system, and that this requires that we demand and continue to demand from the Parliament of Catalonia to the Government of the State that we make the necessary resources so that this is a health system not only that we seem to be very good– that it is, basically and fundamentally, for the task of its professionals–, but also that from an economic point of view it is effective and keeping the necessary balance in order to bring about or confront ourselves in a calm panic like the one we are suffering from at the same time – it is better that we have – in fact – to say that we have – but not yet – been able to protect ourselves. In the end, I'm just glad there's a consensus on this young man. Probably the debate on the future of the health system cannot be done with a motion of these characteristics, but a much deeper debate needs to be made. But let us celebrate that there is a general consensus on basic questions which, certainly, in these questions citizens only expect us all – all – to be absolutely in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Soler has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.84.0	Yes; very good morning to everyone. President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Health Adviser, my first words are in Spanish to send from here a cordial and affectionate greeting to the Councillor of Culture, who apparently sees abnormal and strange that some of us speak in Spanish in this Chamber and therefore with my mother tongue I wanted to send him this congratulations, these greetings, and to tell him that in defense of my individual rights in which I represent I intend to speak in Spanish here when I please, from my seat, anywhere in this Chamber, and of course I will do it in Spanish and Catalan throughout Catalonia when I am so pleased and so I will defend the citizens to whom I represent. Thank you very much and a greeting. [[Greetings.]] Well, and I said this, my first words today, so, focusing on the subject of the Covid, I want to direct them to recognize that I am absolutely disappointed, Constable Vergés, I am absolutely disappointed with what you have done and especially with what you have done in the last few days. I look, as you know, from the beginning of this epidemic my person, deputy and spokesman of Salut, my group, Ciutadans, we have been working day by day presenting measures, presenting proposals, and we have made them come to you in private and in public. We've always been in your hand. I've personally done it from my mantle once in a while. And we did it with joy because we understood that the key thing was to leave the differences – that it's obvious that with a part of the bench we have, and many – because what we wanted to do was fight, work and leave our skin – also with you – to improve the health system and improve the economy. You have admitted that our proposals have not even been read out. I'm surprised the main group in this parliament has worked. I've always regretted that you recognized that you didn't even read them. I think it was a mistake on your part. Say that, us... and I'll say it again, huh? I'm still keeping this offer of loyalty to your team when you want. I think salvation is a priority. We have a system of salvation that is patenting a lot. The workers needed a vacation, and now they're turning them on to get back to work another time at the limit. Therefore, every effort is made to do so. I'm telling him I'm down because you quoted me as saying that you were here in Parliament, together with other spokespersons, and you told us something that wasn't real. You said you guarantee traceability, follow-up to Lleida, and you missed the truth. You had allocated 18_million euros to a private company and you said it was the best to ensure traceability. And you yourself recognize, at the time Lleida confined, that you were wrong, that your management didn't work, that your decision to donate money to the private to ensure the security of the leidatans didn't work. But I say I'm disappointed not only because of that. That's what I've told him since the escó, I'm not advancing him again. What I want to say to him is that you're going to be sold, he moved to Lleida because there was an alarm, because you set up a campaign hospital and the people – as it's obvious – were terrified. You went there and spoke with the press and, looking at them in the eyes, as I do now with you, guaranteed the same one that explained to me and explained to the company of this room to the citizen, looking at the eyes in the press and so the press collected it, as you can consult, at the press of the Saturday. You, on the 8th and midday afternoon of that sale, sent a press note to the press saying that nothing was happening to Lleida. And we've all seen what was going on, that you've lost track of it, that the cases right now don't know where they are and allowed the people to stay, as you also said at your family reunions, and now we don't know what's going on, not just in Lleida, counselor, but we don't know what's going on across the country and you've lost all your credibility. So I don't even ask you what happens to Lleida anymore, whether you intend or not to when selectivity ends to confine the territory, we don't know; I don't even want to ask you, I know what will answer me. What I don't know is what's going on in Catalonia right now, thanks to your management. You have lost the total traceability of the cases and this has irresponsibly put the salvation of all Catalans at risk. Look, counselor, I'm still reaching for my hand. I think it's a pact for reconstruction. I've heard myself say it many times, Mr. Carrizosa has done it many times, Mrs. Roldán has done it many times and we continue to maintain a great pact for the workers, for the citizens, because the health system is strong from this pandemic, because you leave the punch. Surely Mr. Torra, always absent when there's a health department, must be stuck right now on the phone making a conference at Waterloo and that won't fix us anything. Your loved ones, your conflicts won't fix any problems we have in Catalonia right now. Please return to this reconstruction axis and with us you will be able to keep counting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn for the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.86.0	President, to speak from the escho, I will speak in Catalan, one of the two languages of my country, Catalan and Occident. I will not intervene in the language of my family, the castle, which I can always use when I want and when I want. That's right, one of the two languages of my country, on the go, I can't use it or when I've been to the state's peripheral administration many times, or when I've been to a courthouse, or just Catalans and Catalans when we go to the institutions of the Spanish state to represent our people. This is the reality we have from a linguistic point of view. [[Some applause.]] And in relation to the motion, first of all, we want to thank the group proposing the points and explain why in relation to some of these points we will abstain. Just explain it, because we appreciate the motion, which is the determining factor. Look, we have certain doubts as to how they express coordination in the local sphere. Not because we do not agree with this coordination, but because it will depend on what it means that we may be in favour of it or against it and, therefore, abstain. We will also abstain when you speak of public administration and provision and say 'priority' and with the intervention of the spokesman it became clearer to us, because then it became clear and said 'and when there is no concertation. We always have to be able to. And, therefore, if there is no such guarantee, it does not mean that we are primarily responsible for the health of management and public ownership and for the provision of 100 per cent, because we abstain, because it is our model. We respect that yours is another one. And a later abstention and we'll explain a little bit in a deeper way why, which is related to how you raise the question of extinguishing the Ferrovial contract. Look, this is already approved, and you know it, that it's already approved. But if they make an addition, what they're asking is that details of what compensation has been agreed, to us what brings us to the conclusion that Ferrovial can be screwing his hands right now, because we're making a speech and agreements from the Catalan Parliament as they already have right to compensation and we don't want to take it. And therefore, above all because of the fundamental question that this is already approved, that it is the rescission in this Parliament, we will abstain above all for this formula, which is introduced through a slogan of the Citizens' Group, that it is said exactly which compensation has been agreed. Because for us we would have to look for other formulas and in case go to strengthen what is the position of Ferrovial before a possible contractual extinction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.88.0	Thank you, President. It is fixed what must have impacted this health crisis on the society's joint venture and also on this very Parliament, which we have before us a common motion regarding the health system that has been set up. And our group is willing to vote favourably on them, of the twenty points. And does that mean there's a coincidence of ideological approaches to the commons with regard to public health? I'm sure you don't, I'm sure you don't. What has – we understand – been so much on the part of the group proposing as on the part of the rest of the parliamentary groups a willingness to address the problem that has generated this crisis with a certain unity and we must try to find solutions. And I value this willingness on the part of parliamentary groups to try to address this problem and seek solutions, but I also have to counter it with the sense of improvisation that the government gives. Last week, in the specific debate about the coronavirus, I gave it to the president myself that the feeling we had was that before this crisis the government had acted like a chicken without a head. Unfortunately, one week later, this feeling has increased and increased. It gives us a lot of feeling that we don't know what decisions are being made, we don't know who decides what is to be done or what is not to be done. We feel Lleida's health officials, for example, asking someone to make political decisions. I, when political decisions are taken, it is not clear that they are based on health or scientific arguments. The feeling of uncontrollability worries us and worries the conjunction of Catalan society. Therefore, I value this effort of the parliamentary groups to try to reach agreements to deal with this situation, but, I insist, we are concerned about the performance and improvisation of the Government of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.90.0	They all have the guidance of the papers that we have accepted from both support groups to the government as from Ciutadans, as well as from the socialists. And yet, I just want to refer to these two that we have incorporated from the Socialist Group in the end and that allow us to incorporate an element of currentity, which, obviously, when we made the motion still did not exist, which is the bud of Lleida and the confinement of the Segria. And it is also the case that the motion must be used to demand from the Government a comprehensive treatment that respects the situation in the case of the Segria and, obviously, to demand clarity, transparency and coordination with the local world that respects the plans to approach these new buds. Because in this case there was no clarity, transparency or coordination with the local world. I also turn them back, Counselor, that you said in the mouthpieces of salvation, that you would publicly sell to the citizenry, that you were not concerned about the resurgence of the Segria, that there should be no confinement, and that you disbanded the middle border without all the region. Mirin, the feeling is general: fifteen days without a public health officer, doubts about the system's ability to track and contact, to avoid getting to Community contamination, as is the case in Segria, recommendations to the agricultural sector, in inspection accounts, which is its obligation. Miri, we cannot repeat either the health crisis of the Covid; we have individual responsibility for everyone. If the mask helps, welcome continues, but the mask does not cover the government; the mask does not cover the lack of trackers, nor covers the lack of public health secretaries, nor covers the lack of job inspection, nor covers the lack of coordination between the two government partners who have been living also in the management of this health crisis. Mask, all right; responsibility for all, all, all, all. But you govern, the mask doesn't solve the problem. Governor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the attention of mental salvation]] [[302-00219/12]] After the debate, we move to the next item on the order of the day, the dinovè, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the attention of mental salvation. I present it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs. Blanca Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.92.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies. Nine months ago, this Parliament passed a motion to ensure access to mental health care and addictions for all citizens of Catalonia and to implement a suicide prevention plan. So far, however, it is not that they have not had the interest to put it into effect, but that they have not even had the interest to submit the follow-up report, even though they had four months in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber to present it, let alone to devote a portion of those Fake budgets, which we have already told them they did not serve, and which have ended up giving us the reason that they do not actually serve, nor do they serve, to guarantee the mental health care of Catalans. That's where we were when the pandemic invaded us. And the lack of resources in mental health has been combined before, the special needs of people with some mental health problem and their families during confinement, the large number of people affected because they have lost loved ones in very painful circumstances and all those who have to deal with economic calamity, the impact on young people and the increase in addictions and, in addition, the impact on health professionals and residences, who have experienced dramatic situations in the front line and who have had to work hours and hours without sufficient protection. We can understand that no one could imagine that we were going to live such a situation but, now that we already know what is and we already know what is coming over us, we asked him, counsel, in the inquiry and told us to put in place a Covid plan to address the emotional pandemic neither word; nor word to comply with what was approved by this Parliament in October; nothing of a prevention plan in view of the possible new outbreaks, which we already have here; that an emotional management app has been put in place. But they haven't paid the salaries of the 100 psychologists who pulled her out. And I don't know what they're waiting for, because they're going to have to rehire with the confinements that already seem to be coming up. And they told us that they were going to set up a committee of experts, and put in money to fulfill all this, not a hard one. With this motion we call for support from the groups for an economic departure, money, to put into effect what this Parliament approved, which is also not so rare, that it is to end once and for all the discrimination that people who have some mental health problem and their families are suffering when they are not being given access to treatments. Let us have a Covid mental health plan both for people who were already linked to the mental health network and for all people who suffer emotional consequences. And to ensure, among other things, the viability of family associations, which are doing emotional support and accompaniment, not only during the pandemic, but under normal conditions, fulfilling something that is the obligation and responsibility of the public network, but which is not being provided to them, must be organized among them. And we also ask that there be a plan to support the professionals, because their discomfort is not only due to the dramatic emotional situations they have had to live in, no; it joins with the unprotectiveness in which they have had to work and with all the cuts and all the care overload they have been dragging away for many years. Because the symptoms that professionals suffer are not those of an acute disease such as the pandemic, no; they are those of a severe and chronic disease that has been suffering from our health system for many years. This motion calls for the support of the groups for this Government to place the emotional care of citizens once and for all among its priorities. Because, yes, mental health care and suicide prevention is a responsibility of this Government, because it is thus contemplated in the portfolio of services of the Spanish Ministry of Health, responsibility that has been transferred to the autonomous communities and that Catalonia has repeatedly failed for many years. I don't know what you spend the day asking for more skills when you are then unable to exercise those you have assigned. And if Catalonia fails, it leaves us all – everyone – behind because in this there are no political colors, in this we are all together and what the citizens of politicians expect is that we solve their real problems, and even more so at this moment when the pandemic has left us all so beaten up. That must be their only priority and in Citizens it is ours: the well-being of all the citizens of Catalonia in this pandemic save lives and save jobs. I don't know what they're waiting for to get out of their minds and devote themselves to taking care of us all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.93.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.94.0	... – one moment, I finish right away – stop squandering on the usual monotheme, because the situation is more critical than ever. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.95.0	It has the word now to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the MP Assumpta Escarp, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.96.0	Vice-President. The other day in the Committee on Health she expressed her gratitude to Mrs Navarro for her sensitivity, her insistence and her knowledge because this Parliament is concerned with the need for mental health, patients, family members and professionals. I think it's an effort and a commitment to collect visibility of mental illness. In this period, when we have not yet come out of the effects of Covid-19, we need to strengthen much of all the mental health services so that the existing pathologies, some of them aggravated, we will have to add to the causes of confinement, anxiety generated by ways that could not be done, increasing the addictions for confinement and loneliness. Again, primary care professionals and mental health professionals will have to overburden. In point 2 of the motion is the creation of a specific telematic and home program to give support to the people attached to the mental health devices and addictions during decontainment and to make a preventive pocket. I think it's very important the last time, when this telemedicine abuse system doesn't serve to deepen the digital bretxa, and we also need to see it in primary care themes, that is, we can't, using our resources, create more differences. Yes to the new resources but to fight against the differences and, therefore, we must be able to guarantee and reach the psychotherapeutic support that is needed. The coronavirus has caused the care centers to reboot, deprogram, and therefore, we need to continue reprogramming in order to be able to recover these visits from patients, infants, young people and adults who need mental health resources. The motion places special emphasis on the effects of the pandemic on those people who may have..., of the complexes, on those and professionals who with their high degree of involvement may suffer and need emotional care and psychotherapist care. We have heard many times that we take care of those who take care of us, we applaud them all – all – and we have given many thanks here. Certainly, the councillor created an emotional support app, and we still don't know if the psychologists who had this app to give emotional support to the citizenry, but the professionals have also charged, because they had a few working months and still didn't charge. One more step is to demand transparency and participation – this young man does too – and to know where the funds are and who the funds are, as well as private resources, as well as facilitating survival and support for patient and family entities and associations. The extraordinary plenary also spoke of the modification of the assumptions and we wanted to know who the destination is and who will be the foundations that will have mental salvation, what programs and what will be the increments that will be. From here, I think the Ciutadans Group – and I know it's hard to say it – is wrong, I think, focusing on requiring the WHO regional office to return the Generality grant. I think the Health Department will have to explain whether it reports on an instrument as valid as the Health Board has this positive value because we paid them or not. I'm raising the instrument. What I don't want to think is that the WHO gave me a positive report for a payment. And you will have to think and give explanations about a payment provided to the report, you will have, like any public power, to explain with transparency that you have made a good use of public money. He said we'd give support to the young man except for this point and not at the point where they say where to get the money to end up putting them to Greeting. I don't think it's this important mental health movement that we need to say what the presuppositional distribution is, we want the vice-president to explain to us, and we hope that the Economic Commission will have the week you're going to explain to us, what the presuppositional changes will be, and what the money has been spent on. I told him that in these two points I would not vote, and because I know very hard that on the WHO issue there is an instrument such as the Health Plan, a planning tool that started in the northern years the Government, that at that time the counselor was Dr Xavier Trias, and I doubt you thought that you needed WHO's recollection. Believe the ugly one. An instrument that continued the governments of progress, an instrument that has continued to everyone and that we cannot question for a bad act of autobomb using the WHO to generate more negative news around the WHO, that rather do the populisms, of evil on this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the word Laïlla Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.98.0	Thank you, President. Let's talk about mental salvation again. Once again it is a subject that is again central in this Parliament, but also in any health debate, because precisely situations such as the current ones of this pandemic that has affected us all, let us see, pose on the table, the importance, the central thing that is the mental salvation of all folds, of those who heal, of those who care, of the patients, at these times, but always, as important is the mental salvation of all folds, because that is what it all boils down to. And, therefore, before entering the youth, I would like to begin by making a thank you, a thank you to the health professionals, basically, but to all those who during this pandemic and also now continue to pay attention to people diagnosed with some mental health disorder. I had the opportunity, when I joined the nurse during the peak of the pandemic, to work with people affected by mental disorders who entered units of severe mental disorders. And the effort the professionals make to contain, to help, to accompany, to give support to these people, that you already imagine how difficult it is for all of us, right? , this confinement, the containment, as it must be for people who at one time or another, therefore, have suffered a mental disorder, in this severe case. And, therefore, I would very much like to thank the efforts made by the health professionals, the social professionals, who have supported, supported and cared for people with some mental health diagnosis; but also the people who entered, diagnosed with some mental health disorder, with some severe distress, because they have also made an ingenious effort, to be consequent, right? With all these regulations of confinement, of containment, of not going abroad, how important it is for these people sometimes to be able to go abroad, and who have not done so, they have respected it and are making an effort to keep it that way. I think it's fair, too, to give it the value of the effort they've made. And, as it can't be any other way, to the families who have endured this distance, this separation with their family members, and who have also given support to these people in such a complicated situation. I think it's fair for you to start like this. And entering directly into the motion, a motion that has already been explained, we are talking about the people who help, the people who have looked after, who care, who heal people with some mental disorder in this pandemic, but also those who have been in the first line and who, obviously, have been affected, therefore, because of the effort they have had to make during these days and who, unfortunately, have to follow: miscarriages, attention in the first line, efforts that have sometimes been socially recognized, but that have required even some extra effort in their work. And, therefore, that's what we're talking about, in this young man. And also people who, as I said before, have been and are diagnosed with some mental disorder, whether adults or children, to face this disconnection, as we do to accompany home, not only special devices but also at home, from the primary, as we accompany in this disconnection. We talk about transparency, we talk about families, about entities that accompany, that pot sometimes invisible, in many cases, that are always there, that they accompany, that they help, that they support attention, in this case to people with some mental disorder. We're talking about families, we're talking about entities. And it's for this reason that we support most of the points of this young man. And I also want to thank Mrs Navarro's willingness to reach pacts, consensus, because we share the depth of this young man. But there are three points to which we will not support. One might say that it is more of a terminology than a term, because we share the need to compliment the documents and mandates emanating from this Parliament. We believe that precisely because of the repeated states of alarm these terms have widened, and that, moreover, in a department such as the one of Salut, which, as we can hear, therefore, there is an important pressure, so we understand, with the thought that we presented them, that we could improve this text. And, therefore, at this point we will abstain, but for a subject of terminology. But, obviously, we can't give support to points 8 and 9, which have fallen, to what is so typical of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, that it is that demagogue of telling where the money has to go, in this case destined for mental salvation, and even to tell the WHO what to do with the 1.6_million euros that the Generality has in this case of pandemic. Therefore, in this sense at points 8 and 9, obviously, we will not support it, and we will abstain from number 5. And by the end, and because it is in the record, the payments that have gone out to the different interventions know that they have already taken place and that, moreover, in this month of June, will bring to light all those who remain pending the emotional support activity that is taking place in these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and has the word Imma Gallardo MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.100.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament's staff, good day. I want to start with a thank you to the group proposing to be able to debate attention to mental health. It is a subject of great concern to us, in particular the points of this movement in which we are talking about the possible effects both on the collection that have been directly involved in the cure of the ills of the Covid-19 as well as on the rest of the workers and also on the people who, because of the pandemic, have been emotionally affected – the consequences of the weeks of confinement are already beginning to know them, but it will be with the time that we will know more about their abyss – children and young people, parents and seas, the great people, health professionals, but also the social, professional residents, security and, of course, the most invisible collectors, but also those who have been essential, such as the transporters, the transporters, and the transporters. Also to take into account the consequences in the collections that already lived some disorder or mental illness and that they also saw their daily life affected, where routines and timetables, that help them so much in their personal organization, they also saw they were hardly altered. All, all people at some point in our lives can experience mental illness, whether because of a genetic issue or because of an extreme situation in which an outbreak, a crisis, a relapse, such as the intervention of professionals and the subsequent follow-up, the work with families, all around. That is why the very important task of supporting the ills and the ills, and also their families, is essential – said Congresswoman Laïlla –, who is a member of the mental health centres, social clubs, family associations and other equipments that come from the territorial proximity. From this rostrum, our recognition to this important task. It's also very important that it's visualizing, that it's talking about mental illness. Since the year 92, October 10th is celebrating the World Day of Mental Health, promoted for the World Federation for Mental Health. This commemoration was born to equate mental salvation with physical salvation, but above all to help raise awareness of the importance of being able to talk about it, of being able to communicate with us. The edition of the last year, which joined the village of Sort, organized by the Association Salut Mental Pallars and the Federation Salut Mental de Catalunya – the councilwoman had the opportunity to attend it – had the theme "Speak and listen to save lives, according to the theme about the suicide chosen at the international celebration of the world day. Suicide should not encapsulate our country's first unnatural cause of death and, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to visualize this situation. Coming full into the room, I'd like to comment that we agree with most points. We know that this pandemic supposes to increase the demand for mental health care both in the general population and in the population with pre-existing mental illness, both for what makes the processes of complicated pain that are living and the emotional affectation of all folds – and here we also talk about loss of work places, impossibility to deal with expenses, etc. – as for the attention to the essential workers collectivities and the health and social professionals. From Juntas per Catalunya we are aware of the presuppositional difficulties that all this may entail, but also for this reason we ask that priority be given to actions directed at the mental salvation of these collections, with more economic resources, more home care and the centers, but also covering the lower levels of the professionals who serve them as soon as possible, especially in the most disadvantaged areas, such as the High Pyrenees or the Lands of the Ebre. Finally, please the willingness to accept the statements of MP Navarro, as well as the transactions we have arrived at, the good work of MP Laïlla. Therefore, we would vote in favour of most of the points, except for point 5, in which he also explained it..., and which I add to it. At points 8 and 9 we will vote against it. Point 8 – other companies have also said this – we will vote against it because the WHO regional office in Barcelona is the link of this organization to our home and this allows us to keep straight with this international organization in matters of salvation. And we would also vote against point 9, because for Juntes for Catalonia, mental health is also a core of the Department of Health. And if we agree that we should proceed to increase resources in mental health in order to cope with the situation generated by Covid-19, it does not seem to us that the solution is to take 'they from government delegations to foreigner, from the Agency of Cybersecurity of Catalonia, or from TV3, as proposed. What we call all the resources we generate from Catalonia, and they already know that the fiscal deficit continues to stifle us. Mental salvation needs more resources but also much more support, more visualization, more listening and much more understanding of all of the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix its position has the first word, the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.102.0	First of all, thank Congresswoman Navarro who, as always, with sensitivity and solvency, right? You make us debate about mental salvation in every circumstance and political moment we've ever had in this country. Newly, as I well recalled, there was an interesting debate from one of his motions, which we approved in its entirety so that we agreed that there were structural elements in the important mental health services to resolve: territorial inequity, a basic portfolio that needed to be empowered and guaranteed, a system that needed to be more oriented to the community and to the prevention of what is currently in place, to rehabilitation and to recovery, more and better participation of citizens, of the same users and of their families. And it's all folded, isn't it? He was the one who raised that young man, and we approved it. We are today without having solved all those same problems, and therefore, just as I referred to your previous motion, we have been affected by a crisis of a health pandemic that has certain effects, but, moreover, it has done so on a system, also that of mental health, with unsolved structural problems. Therefore, the proposals made today by Mrs Navarro of the Ciutadans Group in this House, but we must not forget those structural elements which there are, in our system of services and guarantees of attention to mental health, which are deficient and weakened. The impact has been hard, from this crisis Covid; there have been data, there have been studies, and there will certainly be much more: there has been a hard impact for the people who already have, and there is already a problem with mental health, and for their families; there has been a hard impact, which has emerged and will arise, for the professional, the professional, very tense throughout this pandemic management, but there has also been an impact, more invisible, and that it will also come out, in the most general city, the city that has suffered from confinement with trouble, as it has done with reference, hard, for the lost, without having been able to do the pain, as well as in the most general city, the city that has suffered from confinement with suffering, as it has done with respect to it, because of social losses, and that it will also come out, as well as in the most general city, but also in the same form, in the past, in the past. This impact has a gender perspective and this impact has a social class perspective. And all this we need to keep in mind, also in the reinforcements that are raising attention to mental salvation from now on, because where all these subsequent difficulties of mental salvation elements will arise will be there where people already suffer, too, other types of added inequalities. This whole perspective of mental salvation is in our hands. Therefore, we thank the young man. Obviously, this is not the last two points of the motion, on which, there, the Taronja process has again appeared, of one band, at the point of the World Health Organization – there has already been a reference – on the other hand, in this constant willingness to see that in Catalonia we have a series of ‘xinguites, and to assimilate important elements of our self-government, which we have, like TV3, or how it can be a Cybersecurity Agency, or an Office of Civil and Political Rights, or other elements – sometimes they are one, sometimes they are another – and try to see that this is obvious to put the table on the table. No, Miss Navarro. No, deputies and deputies of Ciutadans. We have more resources in mental health, but it is not from these proposals that you make, but from the political will to have these resources, both for the emergence and for the structural part. And let's take the example of Barcelona, where there was a presupposition for this year in the city of Barcelona already of 640,000_euros for mental health, from a joint that does not have the main competences in this topic, and that the month of May is razed 1_million_i_mig of euros more in municipal presuppositions to attend to the consequences and psychological sequels of the Covid-19, and add them to these 600,000_euros that were already in the presuppositions. It is a question of political will that also, of the extraordinary resources that is held for the Covid crisis, is intended an important part to attend to this emergence and also to solve, and to begin to solve, structural problems.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.104.0	Thank you, Vice President. To intervene from the escó. We, first of all, want to thank the present young man, because it seems to us that the first seven points are of very high quality and that, if it is effective, they could serve us to give an answer to the object raised by this young man. And we want, moreover, to make the recognition explicit, for the Member who presented the present motion, of which it is a good job and of which it could be a very good alternative. Secondly, we also want to explain why we will not vote for it; we will abstain, of course. At point 8 of this young man, the report to the WHO, you do not explain why, but in this Parliament everyone knows why they are setting it up, and, moreover, we make a suggestion: look, you have it very simple; you go to Geneva to the director of Public Health, Mrs Neira, a great Spanish patriot; some deputies will not get us because we are independent – you already know about the neutrality of the institutions – but you will get them back, and they explain it. She's the Director of Public Health at WHO. Probably doesn't give them a positive answer, but they are guaranteed a great deal of attention from a Spanish patriot. And lastly, with regard to the past of the points, point 9, we are obviously not in favour of or seeking to eliminate the Office of Civil Rights and Policies, the Cybersecurity Agency, or TV3, or Catalan public television. And profiting – and ending the intervention – the presence of the councillor, Councillor Vergés, we want to convey to her two questions that are very important to us. We're talking about mental health and we have SEM psychologists and psychologists since April 14th, working and it would seem that today, as at least this week, they still haven't charged. Last week they told us they didn't charge; they didn't tell us they charged, they told us they didn't charge. If today's getting in the way of transferring these wages, welcome, but it's unbearable that we have to give psychological attention and keep ourselves in the emotional instability that means not to collect. A great paradox. And, lastly, also, counsel, yesterday she had a day of struggle, of health care in struggle: it was very good that the counsel could have covered this collection which is characterized in any case for which it is a defense of public health.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.106.0	Thank you, President. Mental salvation was, before the crisis of the coronavirus, one of the weak trunks of the public health system and, in this sense, effectively, both in the Health Commission and in the same plenary had debated and approved motions for resolutions and motions regarding trying to strengthen human and material media to attend to mental salvation in the best way possible with media available until this moment. Now the situation has changed, and it has changed worse. Obviously, the health crisis has exposed many other needs. For one thing, those people who already needed mental health attention before the crisis now need it in a much more intense way, but also, obviously, all victims and relatives of victims of this disease also need this attention. Professionals and other people who have also been working at the whim of this virus should also need this attention of mental salvation. And yet, therefore, people who certainly had no problems, but with the confinement, obviously, have posed manifest problems of these characteristics that require attention. Therefore, it is essential to strengthen media with regard to mental health. And, therefore, our group will support this young man and, more importantly, we will do it at all points. Why? Especially the darrer, which arouses some controversy, isn't it? So the past has a lot to do with what we have recently pointed out from our parliamentary group with regard to the priorities after the pandemic and at these moments of reorienting the assumptions: more social policies, more impetus for economic activity and less process. And precisely this last point of the motion presented to us by the Ciutadans Group, which has as its objective, is to say to the Government: "If they have to retail, retail in process and not retail, for example, in Feder fonts for the search center or for the gatherings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, now has the parula the deputy Blanca Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.108.0	Thank you. I will continue to speak in Spanish to help make this Parliament look like Catalonia, the real Catalonia. I would also like to thank Mrs Titon Laïlla for her insight into all these transactions and her interest in, well, all the time we have been through to reaching agreements, because I believe that those who are going to win with this are going to be the citizens of Catalonia and that is our raison d'être. The points on which we have not agreed, therefore, face two major problems of this Government. The first is the lack of transparency, because, in fact, the report..., it was four months, it was before the pandemic. We cannot blame this on either the virus, or Madrid, or anything. It was four months and it is an obligation of the Government to give information, not only to the opposition for us to exercise our control obligation – which is why we are here – but because it is the citizens who have that right to have access to information by the Transparency Act. The other problem is the issue of priorities. Of course, we have not asked WHO to return the money, much less. It is very clear what the text says, that what we are asking you to do is to require you to invest this money, this 1.6 million euros per year by the Generalitat, to invest it in something that is the same recommendation of the WHO, that is to put in place health policies of mental health, precisely because of the emotional pandemic, which is what we are also asking this Government to do. We're not, of course, saying anything about the other world. The other problem with the priorities, in fact, is that they are filled with..., when we talk about social issues, about putting the citizen, about putting the patient at the center of the system, but when the time comes to put money there is always another priority, and all the procedural excuses of « Madrid steals us and company never apply them when they have to cut down on TV3 issues, neither in the procedural bars, nor in international politics, but there is no problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.109.0	You're out of your mind, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.110.0	... that family associations have problems in making them viable in this pandemic, nor do they have problems in applying treatments once every two months...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.111.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.112.0	... they have no problem with children not accessing mental health treatments and families being unattended. And it's a priority issue, and that's where we want to focus. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.113.0	Thank you. Excuse me. After this young man's debate, the record that the vote is going to resume this late session, together with the rest of today's motions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into citizen security in barrels and municipalities]] [[302-00218/12]] We move on to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on citizen security in the barrels and municipalities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the young man, has the word the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention by showing the condolences to the family members of the worker who yesterday lost his life in a new accident in Iqoxe. It is clear that industrial security needs to be improved. This motion is a proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens to improve citizen security and guarantee the enjoyment of the rights and public freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. The question I made to Councilman Buch on June 18 was to open the debate on a question, that of citizen security, in many barrels and municipalities of Catalonia, which concerns, and very much, a good part of the citizenry. Many, at the mass barrels and municipalities of Catalonia, the citizens see with concern the growing lack of security, which makes it difficult, not to say impossible, to fully enjoy the fundamental rights and public freedoms in poverty and freedom. That is why, from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, we believe that this motion on citizen security in the barrels and municipalities is entirely adjunct, is timely. This motion is structured in two blocks, the first of which asks Parliament to make a reminder, a public and effective proclamation, of one of the main balls of our democratic order. Security is a right of the citizenry that forces all parliamentary groups to seek and promote consensus to ensure it. It's four points, four apart, in this first block, that I honestly think we should all agree. To sum up: the public administrations, the governments, have the instrument of public security, the bodies and the forces of security, in order to guarantee the necessary citizen security so that the citizenry fully enjoys its rights and freedoms. In Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, by delegation of the Government of Spain, exercises the competence of public security, and must do so in accordance with the principles of cooperation, coordination and mutual collaboration with the rest of the administrations, always aging for the continuous improvement of the public security system of Catalonia. The second block of the movement is structured in fifteen blocks, in fifteen points, that seek to push the better of the civic security at the conjunction of Catalonia, yes; but also especially in those barrels and municipalities in which there are problems, even chronified in some cases, for which it does to security and coexistence. There are some barrels and municipalities, mass, sense of doubt, in which there is not enough citizen security, in which citizens do not have easy people to develop their life projects, in which there are conflicts of coexistence, in which the activity of criminals has increased, in which criminal mafias have been established, in which there are fears for organized crime mafias. I don't think I'm telling them that many of you don't know, maybe all of you. And our obligation as political representatives of Catalonia is to seek solutions to these problems, real and effective solutions. We can't say everything's fine, because it's not true. We can't think that we're better off not talking about it, because if we're talking about it, we're stigmatizing the veins of these barrels and municipalities. I won't call a single one today, I've talked enough about some of these barrels and municipalities, on June 18th. But don't worry: there are names, mass, that most certainly we all have in mind. We can't say everything's okay and we can't think the government's doing everything right. It is clear that they are fraught with good things, but the government's obligation is to seek the continuous improvement of Catalonia's public security system and to have the best tools to ensure that citizens have equal opportunities, better social conditions and the enjoyment of the rights and public freedoms of all the barrels and municipalities of Catalonia. From all this, this young man, a young man who seeks to improve the living conditions of young migrants alone, once cease to be protected by the Administration, a few younger ones who – yes – are too often stigmatized and conditioned by the lack of opportunities that society offers them. Seeking also to end the impunity of illegal occupation, which is a continuing source of coexistence conflicts and often more difficult conflicts. It also seeks to promote policies that allow the criminal multirecidence to be brought to a halt, which are a continuous source of insecurity resulting from inadequate legislation. The progress made by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies will drive the necessary legislative reforms and will do so soon. That is why, for these and other proposals that we are presenting today, we believe that this is a necessary and timely motion, and that is why they require their support to approve it today at this plenary session of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] It has the word to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the deputy Carles Castillo of the Socialists Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.116.0	Good morning, everybody. Look, the first thing I have to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, is that it's a very high level of language that they've got used to all the motions and their proposals. I don't know if it's done to provoke or even try to stay alone on the victim's paper, but it's a big deal. And it's a big deal... I'm saying it's a big deal, because they really touch interesting, substantive issues, that sometimes, because of the kind of language they use, just by the way they express it, they're willing to vote against them and sometimes come out running. They demonstrate with this a lack of continuous sensibility, that it seems more strategic than ever to repeat it in its proposals. Notwithstanding this, my group and myself, which do not have much of a complex, have done some abstraction and we have obviated this attitude as much as it does. Because we really think she's not a bad guy in her background. That's why we want to point out that it's a lot of provoking language and a little sensitive about what's been snuffed out of it. It is an interesting, multi-disciplinary young person who touches many different themes around citizen security, but which certainly affect citizen security directly. There is a focus that escapes from the exclusively police solution, and enters into many social issues that we agree, we think, have a very clear and direct impact on citizen security. They speak, for example, before, with the thought that in the end they withdrew, they spoke of illegal occupations focused on which the mafias are concerned. They talk about unaccompanied children, they talk about social housing, about recidivism– about the phenomenon of recidivism–, which has a real impact on the civic safety of our people and cities. They're talking about education. After manifesting civic security as a fundamental right, he proclaims that it is essential to develop in peace and freedom the project of life propitious to each individual. It presents a series of practical consequences for the Government of the Generality's attitude towards citizen security, derived from the principles of cooperation, coordination and mutual cooperation. I would also add to the principle of loyalty. Surely we should define what are the appropriate levels of security, because it is an indeterminate legal concept. But they also open the door, a very interesting door, to talk about minimum standards of security, which must be guaranteed to our barrels and streets of the towns and cities of Catalonia with an up-to-date map of security to be drawn up in the norm days for the Government of the Generality. We agree. It also seems very important to us to refer to the Barrel Plate, because this is the backbone to try to appease the problems of insecurity resulting from the precarious work, social and urban nature of the most conflicted barrels in Catalonia. It calls for coordination between the Departments of Interior, Education, Work, Social Affairs and Families to design and disseminate concrete measures to improve civic coexistence and promote respect for the fundamental rights and public freedoms. In this sense, it also calls for a multi-year action programme against educational inequalities, thus placing the emphasis and the primary importance on education. Think you're very opportune. Ask for various negotiations with the State on cross-cutting issues and are also available – we are ready – to collect the glove. Illegal occupations controlled by mafias, the phenomenon of recidivism, are really problems that affect a lot of the feeling of insecurity that have many citizens and therefore have to act. So we have to act. Control and guarantee and transparency, too, to ensure that public resources go exactly and precisely to the intended social ends. Increase of the offer of social housing with public-private collaborations. Okay. Distribute the Staff of the Squadre Mosso Cos according to the territorial needs based on the rigorous analysis of the data. How many times have we asked for it in this faristol, I think all parliamentary groups, practically, from this chamber? Creation of the Directorate-General for Local Policies. Also a sensitive subject, but on which we agree. Naturally, they bring all intent or intent to control the local police of the Interior Department. Coordination, yes; control, in no case, no control. In short, by obtaining their language, both in terms of language and in terms of the issues that they touch, and which seem appropriate to us, we will be voting for them practically the whole question of some concrete point that we are abstaining from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Lluïsa Llop, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.118.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor. Very good day, deputies, deputies, parliamentary staff. The Ciutadans Group presents this motion on citizen security in the barrels and municipalities, a motion that begins with a first point that we do not share people from the Republic Group, which is basically dedicated to consecrating the citizen security of the police state as guarantor of rights, coexistence, poverty and freedom. I insist, a model that we don't share people and where we come to say things like that we can age for the perfection and continuous improvement of the public security system in Catalonia, in order to guarantee the maximum possible effectiveness and effectiveness of the Mossos and the Local Police for the benefit of all the citizens of Catalonia because they can enjoy in coexistence, lack and freedom of their public rights and freedoms. I insist: we do not share people or this paradigm that you advocate, this consecration of the public security of a police state. From the Republic Group we are convinced that what is needed to guarantee the fundamental rights and public freedoms are educational policies, it is social policies, it is those that promote equality, insertion, respect, and citizenship. The public security imposed for police control must be the last of the tools, it must not be the fundamental principle that leads us to be able to enjoy our rights. And, therefore, we do not share this point that you are advocating and, moreover, certainly, when we are talking about guaranteeing people's fundamental rights, we understand that they also include civil and political rights, civil and political rights that precisely this police state has been harassing for quite some time, especially police and judicial. And you know that. We also share – and the Socialist Group's companion said – the language and the narrow nationalist terminology that makes the first reading, the first feeling you have is that you have to vote against everything. What happens is that a couple of different girls read and also recognize the ease of being able to talk about it, of being able to accept papers, so it is obvious that there are points in this motion that they can be..., that we understand that they are useful and that, therefore, they can facilitate and carry measures that help to improve our society. And, therefore, we have done this exercise of doing this second rereading so that we can collect a whole series of points and, I insist, also thank them for their collaboration so that we can accept different themes. For example, we agree on issues such as promoting between the Departments of the Interior, Education and Social Affairs and Families measures that help to improve civic coexistence in the line of what I gave them. We also share the view that a multi-year action programme against educational inequalities should be developed with special attention to the high-complexity centres and with the participation of local authorities, etc., which they are proposing, basically because in the last few years it was voted in this very Parliament. It was within the 167/XII Movement, and it is the Pla de scoc against inequalities that the Department of Education will undertake, with a reversal of 33_million euros for the proper course. It is also obvious that it is already working to ensure the incorporation of adolescents and young migrants into the labour market, including the Catalan strategy of colliding and including young migrants, only approaching the young people from a global perspective, from training, from health. In particular, their participation in the public employment service's format programs has increased, but, as is demanded here, the Spanish government, which now has the skills, is reforming the foreign legislation to ensure that this has been incorporated into the labour market, as well as urging it to give compliments to the existing legislation. It is also certain that in the area of housing this increase in the offer of social housing is necessary, avoid expanding this availability of housing for the months of housing emergence. And to give an example of the work being done, for example, there is in operation in this line that we talk about public-private collaboration or, even more, public-public cooperation, there is in operation the line of support for the promotion of the Catalan Habitat Agency and the Catalan Institute of Finance to local authorities and entities to facilitate the acquisition of endowment habitat. And what about this area of police cooperation, together with the Interior Department and the local police gatherings, to straighten out and work on the adequacy of local police plants, and this tells you who has the honor of being the mayor of Gelida and having a small and very volunteer local police, but what you need..., in order to be able to manage it is very complicated the whole issue of mobility between bodies and between different local polices due to the disparity of different considerations. Therefore, this point is also important. I'm done, Vice President. I'm done as I'm done. There are points of this motion that we can share, and I insist that we have made an effort to overcome this language with which you wear the whole motion, and therefore try to get these points of agreement so that we can push forward policies that we believe are important to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Ferran Roquer, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.120.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, we'll find ourselves in front of a young lady who might say she's got Ciutadan's style, huh? ; speaks of a mica de tot – « plate de barris..., police, police coordination, state security forces and bodies, joint patrols, autonomous communities, lack of competence, homogenize the competition, Government of the nation, autonomous governments, delegation of the Government of the nation, undue duplicities... -, without affirming gaire res, but letting entreveure that also works gaire res. He asks for things that are done, better or worse, they are done, I think better than worse, and seeing aspects. Ask us for an updated security map of Catalonia. I don't know how convenient it is to stay on a map which areas are safer or which areas are not so safe, or whether the insecure areas are always insecure or the sure ones are always safe, or depending on the time of time, or depending on the actions they make, or depending on the season. In fact, an obligation that the Mossos d'Esquadra have, an obligation that the Police of Catalonia has is to be in continuous contact with the local administrations, through the joints of security or through the instruments that follow, and to determine at which areas and at which times an increment of effectiveness is required. Those of us on the coast know it, that in the summer they increase the number of tourists, increase the activities of the night octurnal, increase the seasonal population that is moved, is producing a reinforcement of the police in the summer times to the areas of the coast. It strengthened the security of Barcelona and has effectively given good results, positive results from the declines in criminal activities. And, in fact, with the promotions of Mossos that went out of Mossos school, the staffing of all the basic police areas increased. They ask us for one of those things that I say that you say and don't say. We are told that the Department of Labour Social and Family Affairs reviews and improves inspection procedures because it guarantees: "the effective application of public resources to social purposes aimed at improving the living conditions of vulnerable people. What does that mean? Does that mean the inspection service doesn't do this job today? The inspection service does this function because it is determined by law, by Law 16/1986, that in its Article 6.4 when it speaks of the functions of the social service inspection says: "Supervise the destination and the authorization of public funds granted to private or public initiative. And I can assure you: the people who work at the social service inspectorate in Catalonia are excellent people, who know their work and who are dedicated in the morning and late night to bringing knowledge and dedication. And they do, and I've worked with them, and I know that. So, ask us something that's happening. Just as in paragraphs 2.11 and 2.12, we could say that it is a summary of many of the motions that have passed through the Internal Affairs Commission: increasing the police force in the Roses Police Base Area, the Girona Police Base Area, etc. Where there are Ciutadans governors who are asking, they are asking for more effect. Something, in that sense. The Security Board of 2006 concluded that Catalonia lacks 16,500 moss, 17,000 moss. He never made it. The Government of the Government of the State has repeatedly asked the Government of the State to increase its number of movements. He didn't leave him. The Government of the Generalitat, in favor of the budget, has drawn calls for moves of 500 in 2018, 750 in 2019 and 750 in 2020. When all these have been incorporated, it will allow us to increase the number of moves to all police basic areas. In short, it's always good to treat you, Mr. Alonso. We will vote in favour of a good part of the points, which you have accepted on many occasions, because we have made an effort to hear the background of the question, beyond the recent rhetoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix the position, has the word in the first place the deputy Marc Parés, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.122.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, there are several points in your motion that we could certainly agree on, if you present them separately. In fact, in some of the papers that you have accepted from the groups that collect the government, therefore, they are papers that we have already approved in this chamber with our favorable vote, even some, as is the case with the education, point 2.4, in a motion that we presented ourselves. But the truth is that our group is making a statement to its totality and we will vote against it in its entirety, because we disagree as to how you understand citizen security and we disagree with the global focus that is being used in this motion. We are talking about the unaccompanied minors, housing occupations, education, social aid, and there are no questions to be answered, in our view, from a police perspective and cannot be addressed under a civil security paradigm. In all these questions, we start from very different definitions of the problem and this leads us to radically counterposed approaches. Don't deny it – absolutely, huh? – that some of these problems have a derivative in terms of incivism or insecurity in certain barrels or municipalities and that, therefore, obviously need to be addressed. Let's not deny the problem. Now, while for you this is the background problem, for us the background problem is another. We believe that the focus that you use to place these problems in the paradigm of citizen security is a focus that tends, for one band, to generalize and, on the other, to criminalize some collections. Miri, the year 1971 William Ryan, who is a psychologist, published a book that is said Blaming the Victim, on..., ugly, right? , in response to a report, the one known as the "Moynihan Report", explaining the poverty of black barrels in the United States by the fact that among African American families there was a higher rate of monomarentalit. And that did not happen, according to him, because of the lack of work places or training opportunities in certain barrels, but because of the ghetto culture of these barrels and their collections. Ryan, on the other hand, criticized these theories for trying to divert the responsibility of the poor from structural social factors and to place it, in change, in the good conducts and cultural patterns of the poor, of the poor. I mean, he was arguing that he was blaming the victims. And we believe that this is the look you make on this young man, that they stigmatize certain barrels as problematic or insecure for the characteristics of the collectivities that inhabit them. Look, urban segregation, that is, the socio-spatial distribution of inequality in the territory, which generates some beneficial barrels, for one band, and some vulnerable barrels, for another, we believe that it requires a comprehensive response. As the Barley of the Year 2004 was, in fact, proposed, and we believe that we need to re-invigorate and revise with us criteria, with criteria of salvation, with criteria of sustainable mobility or with ecological urbanism. But we can't turn barrel plans into city security plans that are centered on putting more police into those barrels that we label as barrels with higher odds of inciivism. That, for us, is not the answer. What falls into the most vulnerable barrels – and we prefer to talk about "vulnerable barrels," Mr. Castillo, and not "controversial barrels – what it is to build structures of territorial opportunity, with public services, with access to a decent habitat, with training opportunities, with jobs, with equipment and public spaces and with community empowerment, because it is the city of the same bar that decides the future of its bar. In short, to make possible the human development of the people who live there, so that the residents of the barrier tend to stay there alive and not to leave. All the contrary of the stigma that is derived from the poses that you propose in this motion. And it is that, for us, the safe barrels are the ones that offer security, in plural, the security of being able to have a habitat and be able to pay for it, the security of arriving at the end of the month with the full fridge and facing the scraps of the basic services, the security of breathing a clean air, the security of a fair access to education and a future for your young people. In short, we will have a country with barrels and municipalities secure when the postal code of the place where you neixa do not suppose a motxilla loaded with stones for your future, on the effect bars do not condition your project of life and do not determine, in short, the possibilities of development. It is for this reason, for this discrepancy of substance in the approach, that we vote against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Maria Servent of the Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.124.0	Well, as I have very little time I will focus more on what Ciutadans has managed to agree with Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left than on the motion itself. The truth is that I must congratulate them, because they have managed to settle things that, in fact, we have not just explained. They have agreed with Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia "to initiate a negotiation process with the Government of Spain to review and reform foreign legislation. But didn't you call for a derogation from foreign law? Keep going. They have asked, together with Junts for Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana "to give compliment to the current foreign regulations. Clearly, because the young migrants who come alone must comply with civic obligations in accordance with our democratic order. Moreover, they have agreed with Junts per Catalunya i Esquerra a point that says: « Review and improve by the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families the inspection rules and procedures that guarantee the effective application of public resources to the social purposes aimed at improving living conditions. That is to say, a person rep a help because he is in a situation of absolute vulnerability and now we have to go and inspect that this person was not the case that the money was spent on something else. Looks like there's a relationship here, doesn't it? There are those typical topics that are the ones that always serve Ciutadans around the security model, which I don't want to say here in high view not to give them yet, so more protagonistism. What I can't explain is how they got to deal with you. Segueixo : « To participate in appropriate actions..., because the government of the nation – the government of the nation, thought that our birth was another one – « through the Ministry of the Interior and with the participation of the totality of the departments of the Interior or Government face the illegal occupation controlled by the criminals. Republican Left with Ciutadans. So, the truth is that we are more surprised by the transactions of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra with Ciutadans than the proposal that Ciutadans presents, that it does not escape from the usual tonic of the proposals that Ciutadans only present in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ara, to fix its position has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.126.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, criminal data have increased exponentially since 2008, especially in certain types of crimes, which were directly denied by the Department of Interior and which provoked a late reaction, concern for the citizenry, the organization of veterinary patrols, when not for, and a degradation of barrels and an exhibition of an image of some of our cities, even at the international level, absolutely harmful. The subsequent rectification, which is to be appreciated but late, came accompanied by an increase in the planning of the performance and the intervention of the Mossos d'Esquadra respect certain mafias. But it's true – it's true – that, despite that, we can't cheat on the lonely. Why? Let us not deceive ourselves: while you from the government have housing decrees that encourage and legitimize occupation, there will be no police force or intervention on this matter that can solve the problem. And this is the reality: you are legitimizing the illegal occupation with a housing decree. That said, to the young man who presented the Cities practically to most of his points, we will give him recovery, but I also say one thing: do you really expect the government of Mr. Pablo Iglesias to make a modification that makes it difficult, when it does not prevent, the occupation? They don't expect that, and less in collaboration with this government that legitimizes the occupation. They do one thing: work on the proposal of the law introduced by the People's Party more than a year ago to the Congress of Deputies, which does not affect the vulnerability or denunciations of people with social exclusion, and approve it, give it up and lose no more time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In order to pronounce on the papers has the word Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.128.0	Thank you, President. Well, now, in the language you need to say alambinat. I don't understand, Mr. Castillo, what seems provocative to him inside my young man. And he said that it does not have complexes, but in order not to have complexes, the papers that his group has presented are more intriguing and it seems that it is the cost of saying to him as normal as the Government of Spain or the Government of the nation, when it is you who govern it, precisely, in the Government of Spain and in the Government of the nation. The updated map. The updated security map is very necessary, and it's very easy to do, because at least the Interior Department says it has everything under control. With all control, the data on a map is supersensile. So, well, I repeat what I said before in my intervention: the government does things; of course, of things, but not everyone does them well. Some, even for the results they see, so they just didn't do them well. Mr. Parés, recommended readings can go to certain barrels, and you'll hear them quickly, huh? These recommended readings you've recommended. Everything you say respects the application of the barrel law is included in the motion. Therefore, what should be done is to leave the band demagoguery, stop financing occupation courses from the Barcelona City Council and devote itself, precisely, to the application of the Barley as lime, which applies as lime and as approved. To say that we have accepted force, we have not also traded with the Juntes groups for Catalonia and the Republic. Finally, one of the papers that has created a winch has been withdrawn for the proposing groups, for Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Group, so let's go to our initial text. And the papers presented by the Socialist Group, so, I've said before, they're mostly stylistic. Tell Mrs. García that two years ago we introduced a law to reform these issues that they have to do with the occupation, and I have already announced in her intervention that we will be doing it again soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, the reminder that this young man's vote is going to be late to resume the session, together with the rest of today's motions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into repression, rights and freedoms]] [[302-0021/12]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on repression, rights and freedoms, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Got the word Mrs. Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.130.0	Thank you very much. Very good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor Capella. I would like, before I begin to present this motion, to do a preview and also to begin by giving a message of support and solidarity to all the citizens of Segrià, Lleida, of the towns of the area, especially the area of Baix Segrià, before this resurgence, of this new burst of coronavirus and of the complex and complicated situation that is living there in the area. A message of support and solidarity to all professional people working on the land, especially the mayors and mayors, therefore, from that territory, which is on the front line, as well as the rest of the local authorities. It is a situation that, if it affects an area, a region, I want to claim it from here as a matter of country. The virus, we haven't been talking much these last two weeks, we haven't gotten over it yet, and that's why we have to keep trying - there, conjure ourselves up to keep preparing, learn day by day to boost as much resources as possible, coordination and solidarity from all over the country. And I think that it was necessary to be able to make this claim just before we began to present this motion that we did to him, or that is the result of an inquiry that we made to the Councillor of Justice, the Councillor of the Chapel, in order to confirm the compromise of this Parliament and, therefore, of the people of Catalonia with the rights and freedoms of the citizenry. A concern to defend these rights that is related above all to the maintenance of the justice that we live in this country and the use of repressive lives to fight political dissent and also to pursue a totally legitimate movement, such as the independenceist. Concern in this sense, but above all also concern in another sphere, that it is above all the one that focuses on this young man, that it is all those measures and actions that have been adopted to deal with the coronavirus, the Covid-19, and that have been able to involve an excessive excess, an excessive limitation of the rights and freedoms, and, therefore, that has been disproportionate in this sense. We said it from the Republican Left, we said it to the inquiry, but so did the United Nations High Commission, which called for human rights to be placed at the front and centre of the response to this crisis. They also said that human rights experts from the United Nations, who pointed out that states cannot abuse the exceptional situation of coronavirus, to make it a front, in order to detail rights and freedoms in this sense. Also later the other commissioned again, therefore, made a call to the release of people deprived of freedom vulnerable to coronavirus. And even the entire Greuges Synod, in its last report, warned of a risk of democratic regression, as stated in its report, "Hello and Rights in the Crisis of the Covid-19. So, that's right, isn't it? They're not just some of the others we're saying, but you have authority, so you're denouncing this excess, this point of control and limitation of the rights and restriction of the rights and freedoms. And the concern that we've brought to the council is that there are doors that can't be opened, because if there are situations now that they can defend against violating, against restricting according to five fundamental rights for the defense of public salvation, then this can take advantage of you to find out what. Therefore, we demand the need and balance of being able to guarantee fundamental rights while also guaranteeing public salvation, in this sense. From here you see the proposal to..., or, in any case, the motion. And what we do is propose that Parliament close this compromise in defence of rights and freedoms. And we expect, in this sense, therefore, the unanimous support of this chamber. What we do with this young man, too, is urge the Government of the Generality to keep this vigilant attitude. It is clear that the necessary measures must be taken to combat this pandemic situation, but we must also be vigilant and follow-up on the complaint, and therefore face this violation or restriction of rights and freedoms, paying special attention to the underprivileged. We are also placing the Government on this motion which can be delivered to Parliament, to the Commission of Justice, so this report prepared for a group of experts appointed by the Department of Justice, which must be able to guarantee these rights and freedoms. And that this report, which in a period of few months should be done, can be presented in this chamber, but it is also presented to the syndicate and European bodies. So, with this watchful work of seeing what the evolution is. And we also demand in this young man, therefore, the normative and legislative changes: for a band, that regulation that does is to regulate the exceptional states because it is able to compete in Catalonia and because it is respectable to the maximum the rights in its conjunction. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I end up, Vice President, or... yes, I end up chairing in office, so I also demand the repeal of the Citizens' Security Act, in this case, the biting law, because it's just being used to restrict even more of these fundamental rights. Therefore, what we do is to make this appeal to all Members of this House to support it and to have the opportunity to find the balance between defending the public salvation of the citizenry, but above all to defend the rights and freedoms of this citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There is the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the Lord deputy Mr Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.132.0	Thank you very much, President. He'll advise, deputies, deputies, we'll tell them we'll vote in favour of all the points of this young man. We very much appreciate the fact that we have accepted the message of addition that we incorporated as a point number 7, because it seemed to us that if, in fact, we said that the Spanish State is a State that permanently violates human rights, then only the independence path allows us to guarantee this future of rights and rights for the citizens of Catalonia. But they will allow us, since they have put on the table the question of human rights, that we go a little further beyond this young man, because finally the rights are always the answer and because the rights, to remind you, cannot be torn apart: either they protect everyone or they do not protect themselves; and neither do they have scenes, you cannot say these here, and these same ones not there, even more in time of crisis, as the young man says. In fact, it was in this very Parliament that the Nobel Prize winner Jody Williams claimed that every time the citizens of Catalonia had a right to it too. And we have to say that in this Parliament, in this legislature there have been parliamentary groups that we have had easy. We could return to the parliamentary groups of 155 their frontal attacks on civil and political rights, their coup d'état to democracy, and therefore already placed them outside of what are the essential democratic principles. But today's proposals to the rest of the groups that we also make a point of self-criticism, because it's obvious that we need to do a daily knowledge exercise, recognition and promotion of human rights, but let's not go rhetorically and above all look if everything we do, we did well, and agree with this defense of human rights. And this Parliament has failed to defend the rights. And he did it despite the supposed independence majority. We started when we didn't know how to respect the results of the polls and the sobriety of this Parliament, and I was presiding over the very honorable President Puigdemont. I remember that those days some Members did not say exactly about the opposition: "How did you feel about it? What if it generates more repression? And they didn't fit in, we think, that this is precisely one of the victories of repression: to cast doubt on what is essential in democracy. You cannot doubt the fact that you are presiding over the coalition's most voted list or number, which you have more agreements that guarantee the absolute majority. It's too much peril. It's really dangerous and it's starting to recede, because you start here and it's not over. Then they are the political rights of elected deputies and end up looking at the head when the minutes of the deputy to President Torra are withdrawn. And there was no excuse for this little hemicle. In the previous legislature, perhaps even, the 21st of December perhaps had an excuse, but those who arrived after we already knew that defending the democracy of Catalonia could be equivalent to repression, exile or imprisonment. No excuse. And the coherence of rights is, despite all this, acting accordingly. You can't make a perfect speech of human rights and then say that now is not the time to withdraw the honors to Gonzalez or Vera, because the death squads don't touch, and now is not the time, and we already know what happened. And that sign. That banner, which didn't matter, but because it wasn't ours, it wasn't mys. They've got it. Now the LGTBI flag, as soon as, from below, they clarify that they do not refer to the independence symbols. From Junts to Catalonia we often have the feeling that the short and partisan look on repression is, above all, a salduceus to repression. That's why we've been to the front of the TSJ one and a thousand times, and to Berga, and to Vic's Square, and to Verges, and to Madrid and to the Islands, and to Valencia, because only from a broad anti-repressive position and from a deep democratic conviction in the defense of human rights can we build a very strong wall against the political repression exercised by the State. And so, from deep respect for the diversity and tria of the struggle and the form of disobedience. No one has to tell the mayor of Berga how he has to disobey; we give him support, and I point. But then you don't have a profile to tell us how to act against the MP who has to go before the Supreme Court, that we all agree – everyone – that you won't have a fair trial. We began by saying that human rights are neither a buffet nor a timetable, you can't say who does, who doesn't, when or when we don't, and we say that in this room, more than usual suspects, we acted like this. And do it, thinking we've worn out with an opponent, what we've worn out is the same institution, and we've rolled the already for just the democratic quality we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix her position, she has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Congresswoman Susana Beltrán... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgave, forgave, yes, a moment; certain. Now the CUP exams are still on. Therefore, the return is for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.134.0	We have made statements on this proposal and, for example, on the 1st point we have asked that, as the Republican Left demands that we condemn excessive and non-provided limitations of individual and collective rights, which we say on whose side these actions were carried out? We say that both the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State have ended. We have seen full appointments with the Squadron Mosses acting, preventive identifications, prohibition of the right of assembly and demonstration, publications on the Interior web page saying that during the confinement neither meetings nor demonstrations can be held. We've seen arrests in concentrations that were in compliance with security measures. We understand that with the slightest self-criticism we need to be able to change things. In the second point, they say they are committed to maintaining a vigilant attitude of denunciation, of actions that are concrete in an action that limits the rights and freedoms of the people, right? We say: well, and we urge the government to withdraw particular accusations against political dissent. And Esquerra says to us: "Well, whenever there is presumably no injured agent. It's not what we were asking for. We already know how these procedures work. In the third point, we... they say that I should promote... well, that I should repeal the biting law, that I don't have time. And then we give them: so, then the government, with the failures of the state of alarm, which applies for example the Law of Public Salvation by means of the Department of Health, and which does not give it the powers to the Interior, and does not apply the law bites, since it is asking for its derogation. We haven't been able to come to an agreement either. And, lastly, we condemn the government's heavy understatement to the Parliament, which we asked for the suspension of the six agents involved in the region of Bages and the fact that it will not do so. "We do not condemn this either. So let's say, well, anyway, we'll trade and give it to the government for fifteen days so we can apply the measure approved in this chamber. They can't do it either. So, then, we do, despite the fact that we agree with the points, how is this double game, right? – and now they're just talking about a Ciutadans youth in which the government has completely opposed it – and we're playing with contradictory speeches, so we'll abstain from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.136.0	Thank you. Consellera, deputies..., repression is that the Catalans did not guarantee their right to health, including health professionals, when the crisis of the Covid began; repression is all those people who have not been able to guarantee the right to work, with the pandemic, and that surely in the coming months they will also lose their jobs; repression is that many older people have not been able to have a dignified life until the end of their days, many of them, also now, cannot embrace their children, cannot embrace their grandchildren; that is repression, and that is hard. And yes, it is true that the state of alarm limited the rights of all Spaniards, and it is also true that my group supported the state of alarm because it considered that at that time it was the best. But that does not prevent, and should not prevent, citizens from coming before the courts to demand the defence of their rights, if they consider that these rights have been violated as a result of confinement, as a result of the pandemic. In fact, the last instance of justice – which it seems, separatist deputies, who have so much aversion to it – ultimately justice is designed to defend the weakest against the abuses of power, against the abuses of governments. But you, instead of valuing the value of justice to defend the weakest, what do you do? They create a committee of experts, which is created by the Government itself, and that, moreover, some of its members were the intellectual authors of the unilateral declaration of independence, of the unilateral way – and that you already know how it ended, how bad it ended for all Catalans – which inspired the breaking laws of 6 and 7 September 2017, which were charged with the Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy and, therefore, all rights, at that time, all the rights of Catalans. Well, does that committee of experts have to protect us, must it ensure our freedoms, our rights, and that it has also been chosen by the Government? Fear, they're scary. You say: "This project, the separatist project, is the one that can best defend the rights of all Catalans. Right now, not many days ago, they have been given back the skills to manage the Covid in all its dimensions. And what happened? Segrià has been confined. And what happened? They already have complaints from citizens filed against the Government, because these citizens consider that there has been mismanagement, or that there is mismanagement of the Government, or that their rights are limited to them. Is that committee of experts going to point out to the Catalans that they are now going to the courts because they consider that management, that the segrià confinement is limiting and is violating their rights? Any citizen has the justice at his disposal to defend himself, also – also – in Catalonia. And that separatist project, if they're not even able to do the least, how are they going to be able to do the most? Look, it seems to us that this motion, rather than protecting the rights of Catalans, does what it does is to leave the rights of Catalans untempered in the face of possible abuses of the Government by the Covid. For this motion, and for the committee of experts of the process, do not count on Citizens. If they really want to protect the rights of Catalans, what they have to do is help us defend the positions and all the proposals that were adopted at the last plenary session to fight the Covid and pay attention to the Government's fulfilment of the mandate of the Parliament, of the measures that were taken to fight the Covid. With that, you, all, will protect the citizens in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.138.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, pose, the inquiry in his day and the Republican Left motion that we are debating, a transcendent question, and that seems to us that it is opportune that may be discussed. In fact, we would say that the motion certainly is not the best way to hold the debate on the conditions that we should have, neither in this Parliament nor in the General Courts, which is probably also very useful to produce this debate. There has certainly been an important debate on the implications of the state of alarm and the measures taken to combat the Covid-19 pandemic on individual and collective freedoms in the academic sphere. Because, indeed, in a situation where the State..., the public powers are forced at once to try to protect a right that is – I think we can agree – absolutely essential for the deployment of the rest of the rights, which is the right to life and physical integrity, in the sense of salvation, and, on the other hand, to continue to protect the rights that are recognized in the Constitution, in the international texts that it has subscribed to Spain, and also in the State of Autonomy, certainly in the day, because in the year of 79, no, but now we have a chapter of rights and freedoms that has been very interesting to be incorporated. In this debate, in this right-wing weighting, indeed, balances are complex, complicated, and we could agree on some of the things that are said to the young lady. It's more, we invite the groups we're doing here, and if I go to the General Courts, a study commission on this subject, we listen to experts, we listen to academics, we listen to human rights entities, we listen to public officials and, in any case, we draw conclusions that we need to extrude. Now, what they bring us here– and understand me to tell them – seems a little honest to us as if they were planning, because they make a whole series of reflections, that they could share many groups of the chamber, to end with the acceptance of the Junts for Catalonia dream, that all this has a quick and easy solution, that is that the independence movement does ensure that in a situation where it is so complex to weigh the right that it would be done, that is, go, in the best interest of individual and collective rights and freedoms. And, man, I let's say to myself that this, from the point of view of logic, is what's said a non-sequitur, huh? :Extract a conclusion that has nothing to do with the previous parameters. Because it's true that you can accuse yourself of frivolizing, but I would say that in all states where measures have been taken to combat the pandemic, democratic states in which they can apply, let's say, the standards that we are eager to apply, in all these, we were talking about independent states, right? That's it, isn't it? And in all of them it is possible to debate whether individuals' rights and freedoms have been overly limited. Therefore, that the creation of a new independent Catalan state in order to lead to situations where these should not be debated and sure that individual and collective freedoms would be well guaranteed seems a little intellectually honest. And then it seems to us that the position of Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia with this question is that either I have absolutely forgotten everything that has happened during this pandemic or the position of the Government and of the groups that supported it has been permanently demanding a major... No, look, I will correct you, they have not always been demanding a greater strength in the measures, a greater intensity; they have been constantly concerned to be in the position opposite to that of the Government of Spain respect the measures that were to be taken. That's to say, when it seemed to them that it was too little too late, then, "they pressed because it was more intense the confinement. When there was then the possibility that the Generalitat made decisions in respect, the phase three is ventilated in just over twenty-four hours. In short, it seems a little congruent to us. Moreover, some of the measures that are being adopted and that could also affect rights and freedoms have been promoted by the Government of the Government of Catalonia: the confinement of the Conca d'Odena, the perimeter confinement of the Segria, the measure of putting the mask permanently. One might argue that this is limiting individual rights and freedoms, but it is either necessary or it seems that it may be necessary, from the point of view of the fight to the pandemic. Listen, if we want to have a debate about this rigorous, honest, with the will to improve what has been done here and what has been done here in Europe, from the perspective of human rights, of individual rights and freedoms, absolutely available. Now, if what they want to bring us, in their general report, is to conclude that the Spanish pandemic has behaved in a way that has violated individual rights and freedoms and that an independent Catalan state would not have done so, here I do not count on us in absolute terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word to fix its position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.140.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members and Members, I believe that it is a good thing that in a democratic parliament or in the Congress we all conjure up in the defence of public freedoms, including when we have to take decisions that limit public freedoms. And I think it is good that we conjure ourselves and that we remain conscious, also when we take them, of the import and transcendence of the decisions we make; and that we assume that the exception is, and that the redundancy is worth, exceptional; and that, therefore, when a person is obliged to take decisions that limit public freedoms this cannot be an arbitrary decision, but that it must be based on a legal good to protect, as public salvation has been in this case, and that it must be exceptional and therefore lapsed; and that there is a time when a public freedom must be fully restored. Because if not what we have are these states of exception; we have seen it in other countries, not very long, certainly, in countries of the European Union, where a decree states of exception that later never rises and that, therefore, they permanently maintain rights and freedoms. But I think that this, and even though the pandemic has not passed, and although it has not passed, therefore, part of the legal good to protect that justified the mantle of rights and freedoms, we can say that it is not the situation of the Spanish State. And I think we can say it rationally. I think we can say that in the Spanish State, unlike other states like Hungary, for example, there has been no permanent movement of rights and freedoms. We may even debate whether there are decisions that they have to see with the competitions in the central purchasing centre that have been uncertain or unfettered, but it is also true that more conferences of presidents have been convened during this confinement than in the whole history of Spanish democracy, and that this means that there has been a willingness also to coordinate and generate new institutionalities that allow us to manage episodes like these, without having rights, freedoms or the self-government of Catalonia. But I think we also have to say that not all of the alarm and not all of the exception is an unjustified alarm state. And this one didn't follow, and to the people who defend themselves who shouldn't have decreed the state of alarm and who shouldn't have decreed the confinement in this country, what we have to say is that they are the major enemies of freedom in this country. So that they do not defend freedom from anyone, defend the submissiveness of everyone: go to work in a pandemic without the necessary labour protection measures to ensure their safety, go to work to pay abusive logists or go to work to serve coffee to the irresponsible who understand it from the cities where they have their second residences, putting at risk the freedom and public salvation of everyone. And I think that we have to say this, and I think that the state of alarm, and the measures of confinement have followed necessary measures to protect the freedom and public salvation of the city council in this country. And I ended up with the last point, saying that Covid-19 proves independence is the essential means of guaranteeing rights. I think today Republican Left, this young man, wouldn't introduce her. I think that today, with everything that's going on in the Segria and with the sprouts that we're living in the country, this young man will not introduce her. Because it was very easy during the pandemic to have an absolutely irresponsible attitude with decisions taken by the central government. You just have to go over the hemeroteca. And yesterday the president said: "We did not take advantage of the pandemic to make politics independent. I don't think anyone should ask you to stop being independent because there's a pandemic. I haven't stopped being from Common We can throughout the pandemic. But they do stop being irresponsible. That the public statements they made with the name of masks, with which you have confined two weeks before..., you can tell the city of Segria how many weeks before you have confined them after venting phase 3 in twenty-four hours. Or you could explain to everyone where the Labour Inspectorate is in all those cases that we have rebounds in the work centers, while you point out that the problem is that people didn't mask for the street. Or where's the secretary of public health. Or why Ferrovial, condemned for illegal financing to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, manages the tracking of the Covid in this country. I don't think anyone has the right to ask them to stop being independent, but I do believe that all citizens have the right to demand that they stop acting like irresponsible and tactical people in a pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. To establish his position, he has the floor, on behalf of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.142.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsellor, it is surprising that we came last week from a monographic debate on the Covid-19 and its serious consequences; it is surprising that this week we are debating what happened in the residences during this period, and I say it is surprising, because if we have all concluded in these debates that the present and future health, social and economic situation will be serious, it is surprising that you do not bring this motion here, where you again show us what your real priorities are, as your governing partner has done in another motion. But, above all, it is also surprising, it is deeply hypocritical that you speak of violations of rights and freedoms during the state of alarm, you, who are daily trampling on the rights and freedoms of all Catalans who do not think exactly like the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, it is also surprising that she is deeply hypocritical. But you continue with your separatist priorities, which, by the way, not during the state of alarm, during the pandemic, during the most serious moments, not even at those moments you parked, and now, seemingly overtaken by the most difficult moments, you return to the burden with all your themes in all their intensity. And this despite having confined a region. But they don't care. You to your own, to talk about the condemned and to apply quickly to them the third degree, lest there be no time. And much more now that it seems that Mr. Torra has the authorization of Waterloo to call the elections shortly. And in the face of that pre-election scenario, you come to Parliament to launch all your political pyrotechnics in competition with your governing partner. It is true that you do not need great encouragement to bring such motions here, but now you need to abuse such initiatives in the face of the likely proximity of the elections. And there is a certain joy and relief on their faces in the face of this hypothetical electoral scenario. It's understandable. Almost everyone wants those elections to come. Not as many as you do, because it is true that you want to let go of the burden on your governing partner, but, listen, as long as that time comes, allow us to bring here another kind of initiative, leave political pyrotechnics for other forums and here you focus fundamentally on two things, which I believe even your own voters will thank. First, to be a bit more demanding with the Government in the management of the Covid-19, although incompetence may affect councillors of its own party. And secondly, focus your efforts on convincing Mr. Torra not to waste any more time on his delusions and set a date for the elections. Everything else, Mrs Vilalta, let me leave it, I insist, for other forums, that I am sure your own voters will thank you, because at the moment there are other priorities and concerns on the part of all Catalans and all Catalans. Thank you very much, Vice-President; thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, you have the word ma'am Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.144.0	Well, thank you very much. I want to thank the presentation of the papers both to the CUP and to Junts for Catalunya. We have accepted the message of Juntes for Catalonia because effectively, yes, we believe, the independentist project believes that it is the alternative that must enable us to build a better, fairer, more freer, cleaner country for everyone with guarantee, too, and can guarantee, with all its means and resources, therefore, all its rights and freedoms for the citizenry. Just be a state. And surely we may be wrong or uncertain, but simply have the ability to decide on everything and, also, in the measure of being able to preserve rights and freedoms. For what it does to the CUP items, some have already been rejected directly, some have tried to trade them, although this has not been possible, and still try to do so. Indeed, we believe that the Generalitat must set an example and that it must be able to withdraw the accusations as a minimum and demand the prosecution of all those causes which have been opened where, as a minimum, there have been no injuries on the part of the movements. Here, surely, we would have found each other. We need to move between what the law has to do with us now, to defend public workers as well, which is what the law has to do with the proportionality of those decisions, and so we can move towards a normal change. Unfortunately, it wasn't possible to find us here. We've also tried a deal, but at another point. We continue to defend that it is necessary to repeal the law bite and while applying the Law of Public Salvation, as is now being done in the area of Lleida. Therefore, we defend that there must be alternatives to the regulations linked to the state of alarm and to the most restrictive regulations. And we have also tried to trade another point, which has not been possible, in order to complete, yes, therefore, that there is no racist attitude in the Squadre Mosso Cos and, therefore, we want it to be complacent to what the chamber voted for. Very quickly. Citizens, it's you who make magic playing with people's patience. Repression is having escort companies, so, in prison. We do work for all rights, and when we defend the right to self-determination, it's also to defend your rights, that everyone can vote, I can decide. Therefore, we defend the rights for everyone. The report, Mr Pedret, will serve precisely because we can debate, here, with knowledge of the case, with a report independent of the experts of the Justice working group so that we can deepen in this debate,...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.145.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.146.0	... as we defend the right to life – I finish, President – as we defend the right to life, but as we also preserve the rest of the right, that's what this young man was about. And that's why I invite them to vote and we're still working on it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, the reminder that this young man's vote is going to be late when he resumes the session, together with the rest of today's motions. The session is suspended until 15.45 hours, up to three-quarters of four hours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.148.0	Yes, Mrs. Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.149.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... of point 1a, of the motion corresponding to point 20, on citizen security in neighbourhoods and municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.150.0	What did he say, forgive me? [[Seeing the background and taking a long break.]] All right, so let's go to the vote on all the points that have been debated this morning. And before voting starts, I'm guessing that by today's seventy-five Members and Members have delegated their vote, a dozen Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and forty Members will vote face-to-face. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the local world and managed it from the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00214/12]] Let's go first and vote on item 14 of the order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the government about the local world and managed it from the pandemic of the Covid-19. We proceed to the vote on points 1, 2, 4, 7, 9, 10, 18, 19, 22, 26, 30 and 31 of the motion, all together. The vote begins. These points of this motion were approved by 69 votes to 64, with 1 abstention. We're voting now on the number 5 point of this young man. The vote begins. In this vote there was a tie of 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. Let's go back to voting a few times this number five point in the vote. The vote begins. There was once again a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against – correspondents to 46 face-to-face and delegates and 19 telematics – and 4 abstentions. As long as there's a second tie, we'll leave it at the end and open an extraordinary period so we can vote telematically again this point, right? [[Pause.]] We'll vote in the end, all right. Move on. We're voting for the sixth point. The vote begins. The sixth point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on points 12, 21 and 28a. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance and prospects for self-government after the state of alarm (continuation)]] [[302-00220/12]] We now vote on item 15 of the order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the government's inquiry into the balance and prospects for self-government after the state of alarm. In the first place, we shall vote on the points corresponding to point 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 10. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting points 9, 11 and 12. The vote begins. These points were approved by 73 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 77 votes in favour – correspondents to 58 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – 57 votes against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the covid-19 housing performance (cont'd)]] [[302-00215/12]] We now vote on point 16, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government on the housing activities of the Covid-19. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, points 1, 2 and 3. Didn't I say? [[Pause.]] Oh, I'm sorry, then. Excuse me. So let's go back to voting and make it clear: it's points 1, 2 and 3, yes, I thought I said it, excuse me. We therefore vote for the motion following the question to the Government on the housing activities of the Covid-19, points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting, now we're voting, the rest of the young lady. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy (continuation)]] [[302-00216/12]] Let's now vote on the dissette point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into industrial policy. We vote in the first place point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on points 2.d and 2.f. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 50 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – and 25 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, that is, 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Go ahead and vote... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.151.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote at this point. We know it's not the usual, but we've done the right consultation. Twenty-one votes are in my person; our parliamentary group is a coalition. Therefore, we would ask that at point 15... I cast twenty-one votes, but that it is accounting as the dinu sis and two nos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.152.0	So, it's not a separate vote from a point I wasn't expecting, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.153.0	It's coming...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.154.0	...you make the vote clear from the delegated votes, yes? I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.155.0	Exactly. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.156.0	Because they can't split them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.157.0	We can't divide them. Therefore, the option is that we, in voice, now, demand, even if in my marker, twenty-one votes will come out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.158.0	Right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.159.0	...yes? , because there is no way to segment it, that these are counted as dinu sis and two nos. So, they're two-six-minus and two-plus. Thank you. [[Someone says, "Of the motion we're voting on right now, right?]] From the vote we're voting on now, that's 15, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.160.0	Yes, yes, that's the point... the point of the order of the day is the 18th and, concretely, the 15th point of this young man, which was already scheduled to vote separately, huh? He doesn't ask for a separate vote again, but just a vote acclaim, as long as the delegates have all twenty-i-one, yes? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the political priorities of the Health Department and the necessary reforms of the health system (continuation)]] [[302-00217/12]] All right. So we're voting point 18. And we start with points 1 and 2, yes? Points 1 and 2 of the motion that correspond to the item on the order of day number 18, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the political priorities of the Health Department and the necessary reforms of the health system. Yeah, that's clear, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. So we vote on points 1 and 2 of this motion. The vote begins. These points were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting points 3 and 6. The vote begins. These points were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – and 40 abstentions. We're voting now on point 14.c. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, which corresponds to 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting the rest of 14 now, huh? , which correspond to the letters a, b i d of Denmark, yes? The vote begins. This point was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting for the fifteen, which is where Mrs. Caula made the exception. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 75 against – corresponding to 54 face-to-face and delegates, 19 telematics and the 2 warned by Mrs Caula – and no abstention. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. The secretary points out to me – he is absolutely right – that I have said wrongly the results previously of point 15, eh? It's 59 in favor, 75 against. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the attention of mental salvation (continuation)]] [[302-00219/12]] Let's now vote on the new point, which is the motion following the question to the government about the attention of mental salvation, and let's vote, first of all, point number 5. The vote begins. This point was approved by 59 votes in favour, against, 64 abstentions and 1 Member present who did not vote. And we're voting now on the 8th. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 39 votes in favour, 73 against, 21 abstentions and 1 Member present who did not vote. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into citizen security in barrels and municipalities (continuation)]] [[302-00218/12]] And let's now vote on the twenty-first point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into citizen security in the city and in the city hall. We will vote on a first block with point number 1, which includes letters a, b, c and d and points 2.1, 2.2, 2.6, 2.9 and 2.15. Before we do, however, we will read point 1a, as if 'nsha solicitat'. Therefore, ask the secretary, Mr. Campdepadrós who makes the reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.161.0	"1.a. The Catalan Parliament expresses the importance of the fundamental right of citizens to security, which obliges this Parliament to promote the consensus and public policies necessary to guarantee it, using all the instruments that our democratic system puts at its disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.162.0	We vote on this point and the rest of those that are integrated into this package. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – correspondents to 58 delegates and face-to-face and 9 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting point 2.3 now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes to 12, with no abstentions. We now vote on points 2.4, 2.10, 2.11, 2.13 and 2.14. The vote begins. These points have been approved by 122 votes in favour, 12 against and no abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.5. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 53 votes to 77, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.7. The vote begins. This point was approved by 118 votes to 16, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.8. The vote begins. Point 2.8_was approved by 101 votes to 16, with 17 abstentions; 101 in favour– 82 correspondents from face-to-face and delegates and 19 from telematics–, 16 against and 17 abstentions. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's now vote on point 2.12. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 53 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. And, in principle, we've voted all the points of this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into repression, rights and freedoms (continuation)]] [[302-0021/12]] Therefore, we proceed to vote on the twenty-first point, which corresponds to the motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into repression, rights and freedoms. Let's go vote for the seven of this young man. I'm set. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And then, we vote for the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 65 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. There are no more points to vote, taken from the point where a double tie has occurred, so now we'll leave a couple of minutes behind so we can open a new round of votes and then we'll repeat the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because there are telematic votes and so we have to open an extraordinary period. So, give me a minute of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.163.0	We've gone back to calling the vote because we already have the phone votes. In any case, we'll wait a little longer, if there's any MPs or MPs who need to get into the hemicicle. [[Pause.]] I understand there's no need for a deputy to vote, huh? So let's go through... [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the local world and managed it from the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00214/12]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Very well, therefore, we will vote on point 5, corresponding to point 14 of the order of the day, that is, point 5 of the motion following the inquiry to the government about the local world and managed it from the pandemic of the Covid-19. Let's go vote, then, this point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And now, we've already voted on all the points of today's plenary session and so we're still on the agenda. In this case with the interpellations. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00274/12]] The first question, which corresponds to item 22 of the agenda, is the question to the Government on security policies, and the formula on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.164.0	Good afternoon to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.165.0	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, Quiet, and please. We're short, but he feels the same way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.166.0	It's very late, and it's all gone. We have a time of severe social and health crisis caused by a global pandemic that has forced the general confinement of the population and now gradually and cautiously forces us to observe and to complete certain measures of consistent security, basically, we all know, in the physical distance, in the mask, in the periodic and constant cleanness, that allow us to go to what has been called "new normality", a situation in which we must somehow coexist with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and try to develop our social relations as much as possible, but considering that the virus is still between us. At the beginning of the epidemic there have often been undesirable consequences for the public security service, which has required more accurate coordination of all its actors. Both agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, like Bombers, as civil protection personnel, have not appreciated in the adjunct moments of the need for personal self-protection and security, nor of the instructions or protocols adjunct to their actions. Since the declaration of the state of alarm, coordination meetings have taken place with all the police officers of the State together with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the Ertzaintza, the Navarra Foral Police and the local police with the Minister of Interior Great-Marlaska, in order to coordinate the security tasks and to place the greatest possible number of effects in the service of the containment of the virus. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra set aside the Oris device designed for the same Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra with the same global philosophy that was intended by the state coordination meeting: to put the maximum effect at the disposal of the virus's containment, and to unfortunately monitor the ban on movement of the population. This device has been shared and coordinated with the rest of the police and with the same ministry and has been the full route during these months. The new state coordination body, therefore, did not change in absolute terms the daily work that had already been doing our movements and movements on the street, because it had never had any pretensions of control, it only intended to coordinate all the incidents related to the medical crisis. There was no change, therefore, as I say, not a single one like this Oris device, which diligently and effectively had already predicted the Squad's Sights, are recognized as what it is, the integral police of Catalonia. At the length of this crisis situation, complaints of security professionals in Catalonia who did not rely on basic protection material have occurred and persisted over time. More than three months after the crisis began, Mr. Counsellor, the claims of trade unions and street agents continue to manifest that these basic protection measures have not yet reached everyone. Will we be prepared before a virus resurgence occurs? We're not after anything? So, I am sorry to say that it is not much to expect, given the communicative, personal attitude, which the honourable Councillor of the Interior, who did not know how to print the Procicate of the leadership that surrounded him in all this crisis, and who preferred to enter into all the possible controversies, from seeking the ironic confrontation with the State until the clothes were removed for the name of masks of a sending, passing by less to the UME, a UME that has helped in many situations of extreme need, in many towns and cities of Catalonia. Only on a practical example title: to more than a few questions that have come to light with a number of disinfection tasks, such as those that took place at the Prat airport or among a multitude of places of opinion that have been claimed by them, direct support tasks, such as the centre of assembly that they raised for the homeless in Barcelona at the Fira de Mostres in the city, to give to hundreds and hundreds of people. From the advice and innumerable press wheels it has been sometimes confusing with messages to the people with certain safety recommendations and acting a little sui generis that have also made it difficult directly the pocket of the agents on the street – I am thinking, for example, on the spot of the monkey at its time. In a few moments, the Generality Bombers were used to store and clean up the harmful management carried out in the past in private residences and which should have been controlled by the Generality itself. Some had complaints since 2017, and before the inopportunity, allowed to ensure adequate cleanness and disinfection, they were forced to act through the Bombers as well as the emergency. It is not that I seem ill, counselor, naturally that they are for this, if it really was an emergence, but I think, humbly, that the Generality should, at least, have tried to force and demand first to act these enterprises, instead of sending directly the Bombers of the Generality of Catalonia. The coordination mechanisms with local police have also worked correctly, leaving clear sanctions criteria to be determined in many cases together. In order not to speak of the disastrous management of the famous PCR tests, which were to be done to all workers or emergencies who had come into contact with someone infected or under quarantine, which started and stopped, while, in parallel, a jutjat ordered to make them to Mossos as a condition without which they could not join the service. Always after events, never choose to take care of and protect yourself or go beyond the strictness required. As a concrete example, it is also worth the systematic failure in the field of occupational risks, with the lack of evaluation of the corresponding occupational risks for the Covid-19, a document that has not been definitively approved by the Labour Health Committee until June 9, almost three months after deciding the state of alarm. Certainly, it's an identical text that they already had before the health care providers for the same SARS-CoV-2 crisis. Or, as for example, the exclusion from adequate protection of certain especially sensitive workers, who take a heavy risk to their lives, until, again, a court ordered that action be taken. To this end, as March 25, 75_per_cent–75_per_cent–75_per_cent were denied permissions to members of the Specially Sensitive Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron S. Again, counselor, always after events, never choose to take care and protect yourself or go beyond the strictness required. Not to be seen with the attitude of self-sacrificing and absolutely devoted to public service, with personal and, sometimes, family sacrifices. And it's true that in one of the things I said to him, counselor, I also say to him, with all the peace of the world: at least at an early stage, all the governments of the world made mistakes. It's true, it's true. We're in front of a pandemic that caught us all by surprise and, surely, we've all had to improvise a few things at a minimum. So humiliated and self-criticism first. I try to apply these maximums and in conscious soc, counselor, perfectly conscious. So, I'm telling you, it's not so much absconding guilty that we don't get through again. We need to learn some mistakes and predict everything so that we don't fall back into it. Our inquiry and the future motion will go this way, counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.168.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Member of Parliament, the title of the motion that you have put forward, because no one else has put it is an inquiry to the government about security policies. And he told me about the Covid and the management of the Covid. He talked about it, he didn't talk about anything else. He didn't talk about security, he talked about Covid. You're going to come back here and rub it again and say no. We would, if they wanted to post titles and then talk about other things, they didn't want us to sort things out, in any case they come here to explain what you think is right and right. But, well, if you want to talk about security policies, I have a wide fan, talk about security policies. If you want to talk about Covid's management, I can't talk about it either, but I obviously don't carry all the data. I can't carry them, and therefore I won't be able to answer all the questions you've asked. Another thing is that you're trying to get me to answer them. Or another thing is that you are persecuting that you do not answer them and, on their second return, that I am convinced that he will do it: « Counselor, do not answer me, do not answer me, do not answer me, do not answer me. Miri, he's told me a lot of things. Some people will be able to answer them, but they are obviously missing data. I do not feel sorry for this, that with the hands of questions they make us, and that we are the department that practically answers them all in time and form – that there are other departments that do not do it, we do, we do do do it permanently – all the questions that you have done to me by writing, that I will answer them all. He's told me a lot of things. One of them: he focused that if the counselor was not on the rise. So, look, I admit it, from the first moment: I'm missing. I'm sure I'm not as capable as you are. I'm sure. I'm sure I'm not as capable as you are. I'm sure you'd do a lot better than me. But do you know what's going on? I soc, I consider myself, I want to be a humble person, not a vain person. I will never tell you what you said to me. I am the first to make mistakes, I am the first to accept them and I am the first to try to recognize and correct the errors I make. He told me about union complaints from the U.M.U., the confusion with the people, whether the bombers should go to some companies, some others. If you've asked... the bombers are not going to disinfect or work on the residences decided by the Interior Counselor or the Interior Department. If you've asked or read what the Procíted, read and read Emergencies Plan is, you've seen that Procíted Plan is a plan of emergencies to give support to the healthcare authority of Catalonia, which today is the Health Department. And, therefore, the Department of Interior has followed the instructions that the Department of Health has constantly given. And if the Department of Salvation has said that an indweller, whatever he is, whatever he is..., why, perhaps, in his view, a great person who is living with a residence that is arranged or private, perhaps, for you, he must die before or after others who are in public residences. That's not what Bombers' bones are asking. The Bombers Cos knows that, behind each disinfection, there were people, regardless of whether they were in a private residence, whether they were people with high purchasing power, or if they were people who, unfortunately, did not have resources. They're people and ships where the Health Department indicated. We didn't decide the Cos de Bombers or we decided a servant of yours: where the Department of Health indicated. He talked about police coordination. But he forgot what I said to the beginning. If you'll excuse me... [[The councilman takes some papers from his sco.]] There was a man, a Member, who said that the Ministry, the Ministry of the Government of Spain coordinated the Mossos, but he let them do everything, but that the coordination of the Mossos with the local police was harmful. That's what you said. Llegeixi's official state bulletin, the Royal decree d'etat d'alarma: "The members of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the police forces of the autonomous communities and local corporations will be under the direct command of the Ministry of the Interior. The focal point for local police was the Ministry of the Interior. You accused the Staff and Interior Department of not coordinating well, so the BOE, the BOE who writes and publishes his government, the BOE who writes and publishes his party. That's right, as the coordination wasn't right, the blame is on the Mossos, the fault is on the Interior Department. But here it is written, and it's the second time I tell it, because you tell me the second time that the ministry didn't take the competition from the generality, the second time you tell me. And the next time I go back to saying, "You can say what you want, I tell you what you wrote; I tell you what you write in the official button of the State." That's normal. You can say mass. I can say mass, that until it's public it doesn't work, and what's published went to mass. Therefore, as much as you want to try to live in a parallel world, in which you think this is not true, this is written and exists. And if he served, at the beginning of his speech, to say that the ministry wrote this but he didn't do anything, he let the Mosos work, too, the ministry decided not to coordinate the local police. If they were uncoordinated, the latter was the ministry of the Government of Spain, chaired by his political party. So, honourable Member, I say again: the day you want to ask me a question about issues that really interest you, that I do not say that this does not interest you, and that you want to discuss with the Councillor and want to have a rich debate, for you, for me, for the eyes, for the Parliament and for the Catalans, let us focus, put the title you are looking for. I will give it all the facts and there is, and because I have answered all and every one of the questions that you have asked me in this Parliament. I've compared every single one of the times I've been asked to. And, yes, with all the faults of the world, I know a human being, humble, who is mistaken. I'm more wrong than I want, and maybe sometimes I'm not quite sure and I'm not telling you what you want to feel or I'm not responding as well as you want. Therefore, they make mistakes, yes, not with the vanity of saying that I, that you or that the other is more or less. In a humble way, I'm wrong, I don't always answer or I don't answer as well as you would like. But you can't tell me in case I didn't come to answer. Uncertain or wrong, but a server has always given its face. Always. And I've tried to answer all the questions you're asking, everyone. So the day you want me to answer your questions, I will. The day you want to give me speeches here, putting me headlines because it's about another topic, so that day, as it is today, I can answer the right thing. I know hard, I have limitations. I am a human being, and with all the humility of the world I tell him that I am wrong today, I was wrong yesterday, I will be wrong tomorrow and I will always be wrong. What I won't allow is not to learn from my own mistakes. I didn't get one today. Thanks for getting me to meet you one more little bit, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.169.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the second part of the question, the Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.170.0	Miri, counselor. You're talking about humility, but it makes all the drivers as much as possible and with this recognition of humility that we've just had, so I won't do one: I was wrong about the title, but I had no intention of deceiving it or causing this situation. Not one, Counselor. I confided in the title, actually. But the pretence of my group and myself was only to pose from the table different questions that we seem not to repeat and that they do have a direct impact on security policies, counselor. We want nothing but to improve the security of Catalonia and condition them in which our plants, self-sacrificing and dedicated plants, develop their work. And we think they haven't done it on the right terms, counselor, and it's the opposition's duty to control the government. If there's anything I've said to him that upsets him, I apologize, but I think it's my obligation to make manifest what I've made manifest. I told him myself in an interior committee that we had made telematics that the Interior Department's management had not been hurt. I said this myself, Counselor, but there are two problems: that the initial logical and understandable faults widen over time, incomprehensiblely expand over time, as has happened in this case, and, excuse me, frivolities or jokes or out of all that you as you commit, and with which cover – cover – many times the good management of the same Department of Interior. And respect for the skills, counselor, well, tell me if it's possible for a single competence that you couldn't exercise freely, or more genericly: one thing– one thing– one thing– that you wanted to do and that you couldn't do because you got the skills, one thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.172.0	Thank you, President. All those who were in the fields of defence, interior, transport, mobility and urban agenda and sanitation, all of which we could not exercise when we wanted to, we had to ask permission in Madrid. By right – by right – we had every right to exercise them. Totes. Right. This country has this right. He has won it at the head of many years, and of many efforts, also efforts of his party. Also. And besides, they took us, they took us, when this country had decisions. Difficult decisions, complex, including difficult to explain, from the management of the Covid-19. And all of us were seeing other autonomous communities that were worse off than the data we had then in Catalonia were not making these decisions. They weren't taking them. And Catalonia took them. And the famous coffee for everyone this time, too. And with all the promises that they made to us and that they have repeated to us permanently, and this is the most progressive government in the Spanish State, of all history, what we have had was that they carried out our competitions, which they subordinated to us. And this country has all the right to self-governance. And it cost a lot, to have these skills. Do you know how many autonomous communities have security skills in Spain? Do you know how many prisoners have jurisdiction? Do you know how many keep the ones of salvation? Do you know how many teachers have? Just's, there are some skills that everyone is struggling with, to hold them. There is nothing more difficult to manage, more controversial, that generate, at last, some own inconsistency and some ideological debate. I'm lucky to be able to manage one of these, which sometimes leads to inconsistencies. And from my bench, from my party, I'm also criticized, to do the work I do, sir. But do you know what's going on? That this country wants to govern itself. And that means that it's easy or difficult to manage, it's easy or it's difficult to compete, we want to exercise them right. They're ours. And if one day we expect to be an independent state, obviously: we will also manage security, and public order, be easy or difficult, because now, for an excuse like the Covid management, come to us someone and pass on these skills that have cost us so much. He says they've worked in inadequate conditions, the workers. I'm not saying no. At the beginning of the pandemic it was very difficult for us to manage it. Catalonia, Spain, all the way. We were missing EPIs all over the place. It's true, it's true. I think we turned it around. I think we turned it around. But it's true. And the President of the Generality, in the face of the whole government, accepted that there were things that we had not done them well. And I, publicly, have also accepted that there are things that we have not just done them well. All of it. None expected, but we make a list of those who did it very well and we make a list of those who did it very badly. And why do we value when some are on one side and others are on the other side? By the name of the dead? For the name of victims? For the management? For anticipation? Why? What will be the element? The day you tell me, we can start making the list. What I'm saying is, without wanting to be on one of these two lists, we got the situation figured out. Because a..., before starting a path, is short or long, is very short or is very long, is extremely short or extremely long, is only beginning to make the first pass; does not sit at the chair and says: "They do nothing. It's beginning to make the first pass. And I'm saying that at the time of diagnosis, it's very easy to diagnose and see that everyone is wrong. But I have a responsibility. And I can't be sure that the others are wrong. I have the responsibility to solve it. And that means that if you're wrong, you're wrong, but I'm taking the decision and I'm shooting in front of you. Because analyzing is relatively easy, assuming it is more difficult, but exercising is more complicated. And, by responsibility, I exercise. Despite my mistakes and, by luck, if I ever have one, I'm sure. And I say it in a very humble way. And also with all the esteem of the world. We found ourselves very complicated, we got caught up in it, and now we're already analyzing what we need to do in case we come back. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.173.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the effects, challenges and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[300-00279/12]] The next question is about the effects, reptes and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic, formulated for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. You have the word to expose it to Mr Javier Rivas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.174.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, good afternoon to you all. I'll tell you a little anecdote for starters, as I usually do. The management of the Yellowstone park is so much of laissez faire, laissez passer, and some time ago a herd of wolves appeared. They left them. They didn't intervene at all. What happened? What years later, the wolves have changed the courses of the river. How can it be? Yes, everything has an explanation. It's all a butterfly effect. The wolves began to prey on deer and herbivores, the vegetation grew more, then the forests grew more, the coastal vegetation and one day the beavers arrived and saw that this was a great place to live and made dykes and changed the river courses. Things happen. We can't help it. The wolf of our time is called Covid; the table of salvation, our beavers, at this time, has been teleworking, have been online applications, haven't they? Will the world change with the Covid? Of course I do. In fact, the world always changes, but I think the big question is whether it will change for the better. Or will we stay and go out just as we were or worse, which is also a real possibility? That is why this modest inquiry, which we will accompany in the next plenary session with fifty points of proposal and concrete measures that try to tackle this pandemic, the consequences of this pandemic, and that we will add it to the long work that Citizens already contribute in all the parliaments in which they participate. I won't go into much detail because I don't have much time – I'll tell you it'll be about fifty points – but I'll give you a few little strokes of the vocation you're pursuing. Our beaver prey, our table of salvation, in this pandemic has been called Zoom, Meet, Teams, Webex, Skype, Jitsi, words that for some are new, but I think they have already come to stay and will be for everyone, right? Video conferencing has stripped us of our homes. They've gotten into our homes. It's not new. physicist Jack Nilles made the year 73, was the father of telework in a model for an insurance company. The black economic swan of that time was the oil crisis, and man, therefore, brought this solution, but it was very pioneering, it was visionary, but well, I think that after fifty years of Moore's Law, today we have it infinitely easier for this to materialize in tangible realities and useful realities, right? ICTs I believe are an indispensable tool, not a_medium, not an end in itself, but a_medium in order to help our society. We work with machines because I think we care about people. Let's never lose sight of that. The important thing is people, not machines. The world is changing, but in the end the world, more or less, always remains the same. In Shakespeare's time, people carried the money in a leather bag and with a rope, and there was the sprinkling that went with a knife and cut it, and they called them "the bags. In our time people take the money from the wallet and the walletists appear. In the coming time, and about coming venel, we'll talk about new things, hackers, crypto loggers, we'll talk about other alternatives that in the end are always the same, because the world turns and turns, but it's changing technology, but people don't change that much. Your advice is very important, and that is why we are concerned about the management that you do. It is a consultancy that is very little transparent, I would almost tell you that of asymmetrical encryption, hyperfinanced, and with results more than dubious. You'll tell me that it's not true, that everyone is divine, that they do it wonderfully, that they don't need grandma, okay? I have not come here to criticise your advice at this time, but to make proposals on what we are getting ahead of. And I'm going to explain very quickly three examples, because I didn't want to look for four, if I didn't need an interpretation but a monograph about your counseling, three personal examples of mine, this week. I have to upload a file to a public administration. They tell you to download a PDF, and here it comes to sign. [[The orator shows a full.]] Counselor, are you looking at me? Here he comes to sign, and here he comes to sign. How are we going to sign a digital PDF three times? It's absurd. The PDF is signed one and encrypts the entire document. This week also on the portal d'e- LICITA. Well, three days, huh? , you try later, « the system has failed, « we will see. And I no longer tell you about the assemblies, the secretaries of assemblies, who have to enter the portal of the AOC and spend hours and hours from a broad band of poor people signing, sending and time out errors. What we used to do in an hour, now it takes a whole day. I mean, this... we haven't made any progress, we've gone backwards, and this isn't computer science. Computer science is a tool that has to be useful. We don't have to reset this operating system, because if it doesn't bounce with the same thing. We need to think deeply about what we have, what we want and the tools we have at our disposal. The subject of telework. See, there will be a lot of people, because what I know, hospitality, construction, industry..., there will be a lot of sectors that will not change, that will continue to have to be inevitably face-to-face, but there is a part that could continue. We've passed a powerful stress test, with this confinement, and I think with a note. Look, I've had video conferencing at eleven in the night at my house, and all the work was, well, yeah, putting the camera, putting the American on you, and trying to focus on not being noticed that you were wearing the pajamas underneath, but we've worked, we've worked in a powerful way. Now, there'll have to be a reflection, not for me, huh? I don't care. On the first day I arrived in this Parliament, directly they took us to the group room and Inés Arrimadas told us: "You are deputies on 365 days of the year, on the 24th of the day, and since that day we have done so, and I have no complaint. But the rest of the workers will have to review the working conditions that will result from telework. Another thing we found: most of the houses, therefore, are small, and we spent the day looking for wifi coverage as sapphires in the hallway and finished working either in the dining room or in a_quarter crossing the fingers so that the dog, the child, the grandmother, would not enter and interrupt us at work, right? We will also make proposals for urban planning, coworking, many things. Another topic that I think the confinement has put on the table and discovered us, the subject of e-commerce. What does not sell one is selling it Amazon, Alibaba, other platforms, and our small closed trade goes to ruin. We cannot think or allow in a neighborhood with closed blinds, because they contribute and contribute to our autonomous, to our urbanism, to our gross domestic product and to our sociability. We have to help those, not only that they continue to do what they already did, but more to them than incorporate new technologies, we have to incorporate them into e-commerce so that they also participate in these new developments, right? One of the problems we have to think about, the sharing of digital gains, is often not very equitable, and it is a future problem that we will also have to consider. Something positive. Look, I'm thinking about Europe. Perhaps it's more fun for you to think of Vilanova del Trabuco or the digital identity of Club Super 3, but I'm going to dream, as the saying goes, I'm going to exaggerate. In Europe, they say that there are 240_million active workers, and their studies say that there are 30_percent of workers who can continue to be teleworkers. This will give us a brutal opportunity to rebalance territory and to have new customers, both for territorial rebalancing and for tourism. Whoever says he can't come..., a gentleman from Barcelona can't go to work, live and work in Vilaller, or a gentleman from Berlin can't come to live and work in Tortosa. I'm talking from experience. I live in the Vall d'Aran, I work there and I live where people go on vacation. Here we are being opened up a very important opportunity, if we are able to take advantage of that gap and put in the oases necessary for these people to have coverage, isn't it? We're still at a time of tremendous difficulties, aren't we? Churchill said in Yalta, at the end, almost ended the war, knowing already being won, that it was not the end, and that it was not even the beginning of the end, that it was the end of the beginning. What's coming from here on out, I think it's very important. I think that's what's going to make us all able to improve, get out and improve this world. I think we owe it to those we have left behind and to those who will come after us. I started talking about wolves. The wolves didn't call them us, they came alone. The beavers neither, but I think we have the opportunity now more than ever to work with them, to build dams where clean water remains, can live fish, can live otters, we can live people, and for that order you can count on the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, councillor. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.176.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members, Councillor, the other day, when one of my colleagues told me that they had asked me about the effects, reptes and digital opportunities ahead of the Covid pandemic, I thought: "Listen, Guita, another question that my parliamentary group is presenting to me or perhaps also the Republican Left, right? I said to her, "No, no, it's from Ciutadans." Dic: "Ostres! So, listen, welcome, huh? Welcome, and you should say, welcome to the digital republic, huh? Welcome. It is the first time in the entire legislature that I am asked or asked a question about digital policies, about the digital future of this country. I'm really happy, really. As much as it is at the end of the legislature, we could have done many things together in this area. You have seen it – yes, yes – you have seen it as a permanent threat – as a threat. And it's really an opportunity for this country. It has been a great opportunity, it is a great opportunity for this country, and I do not say, I say a lot of reports, the World Economic Forum says, the same Ursula von der Leyen, the current President of the European Commission, that we have before us different years at European level and one of them is precisely..., one is the Green Deal, the Green Deal is one of the great bets that we also have to make in our own years, but the other is Digital Europe, it is like this continent, as it is that our countries clearly post to be digital actors, to be digital countries in this 21st century. So, listen, welcome and congratulate me on this inquiry, as a matter of fact. But, of course, I don't think it's entirely credible or sincere the proposal I'm being made here today; maybe it is, we'll see with its own reply. First, because your spokesman, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, the other day here in Parliament, in the opportunity we had to talk about what measures we have taken in the different departments in the area of the crisis of the Covid..., his intervention was to detail, to detail the assumption of digital policies. Therefore, you are telling me here that you want to bring me a proposal to make digital policies, but for another band your spokesman, in his parliamentary office, announces to us that what is to be done is to detail the assumption of digital policies. So one thing is incompatible with the other: we can't do more digital politics if you want to detail the premise for another band. Actually, they didn't vote for the pressupost anymore, huh? A presupposition, for example, where there was the most important reversal of optical fiber that has ever..., fiber unfolding that has ever made the Generality. You voted against this assumption and now you're telling me that in the Valley of Aran, therefore, they don't have good coverage. So, look, precisely with this premise we're doing the works now so that fiber, from Sort, passing through Lalavorsí and the port of Bonaigua, arrives precisely to Old, and this summer will arrive. And that's what we're doing with all the region capitals. Therefore, we can say that to all Catalonia, to all the communities of Catalonia, there is the optical fiber of the Generality. Clearly, connectivity is the basis for moving forward; without connectivity we will not have a digital society, we will not be able to move forward in teletreball, we will not be able to move forward in online education, we will not be able to do... as you said, fix people in the territory. Precisely this is an infrastructure, optical fiber..., which forgives me Councilman Calvet, but we have been talking about depopulation for many years, we have done many works, there have been many important works of road and rail infrastructure, but we have not just solved the problem of depopulation. In change, optical fiber can surely be the first infrastructure that helps us fix people in the territories, in small towns. Because so far it's true that the rest of the infrastructure that they've done has continued to reduce time and distance between people living in town and capital, and this has allowed a lot of people to work in capital. So, well, this crisis has shown that connectivity allows you to teleball, allows you to work, so it allows you to generate labor in many municipalities of our country. You've been complaining about the AOC, too. So, well, this presupposition carried and carried, in fact, forgive, that we approved, for the first time, an increment of 40_per_cent of the AOC's presupposition, when we took years with the AOC's frozen presupposition, precisely for these problems that you mentioned from some joints that you have with some AOC systems, so minimize them and try... Clearly, you do not reverse the AOC at the end are noted. And in this sense investing in technology and every time, it's true, the cities and institutions are more intensive in technology, they have to invest money. If you want to retaliate presupposition, if you want to retaliate the presupposition of digital policies, then say'mcom will do it – say'mcom will do it. Those fifty points that you will present to us I would like you to explain to me how you will finance them. I'm celebrating, huh? But I also understand that we are at the end of the legislature and, in any case, I would have liked that we could have done this from the beginning, that we could have accompanied me in digital policies during these two years of government. And finally, you're also talking to us now that... well, to put digital policies as a priority of your political group. Listen, if they voted less than a year ago... they didn't vote in favour of the National Pact for Digital Society that we brought here to Parliament, if your group didn't vote in favour. If it was a plan that did not ask for independence or ask, say, so to speak... or there was no proposal from those you say in the nutshell. They didn't vote for it. So, man, I'm glad you're here today and tell me that you're going to put forward a motion for proposals to move forward in digital policies, but they have to be credible – they have to be credible – and also say please how you think you're going to finance them; proposals that I obviously hope will also come up with as things can be, so the electronic vote, as we move forward with the electronic vote. We have the opportunity in this Parliament of Catalonia, so they don't depend on Madrid, so we can do it here. Are you in favour of encouraging electronic voting in our country in elections? Are they in favor or not? Are you in favour of teletreball and are you not in favour of electronic voting? Home, it's a little incongruous. Are you also in favour of protecting the digital rights of the citizens of Catalonia? Or are they against it? Are they making proposals in this area too? Digital policies? I hope so, that when they look at and learn what digital policies mean, it's fixed in what other European countries are doing, and it's not fixed with the Xina or the Chinese model of control of the city. I hope that we are looking for a model that allows us to empower the city, that allows us to protect its rights, that the city is a lover of its digital life, and not models in which..., as are, for example, the digital law, that you approved at the Congress of Deputies, forgive, that you have given support to the proposal, certainly, of the PSOE and of Podemos, that we are still in the process of deroguing it, as we were told to do, and that you have given support to it. So, I'll be very curious to know what this digital country model is that you want to push, of which concrete digital policies you want to pull forward and that, in any case, I have the feeling that what we play in these own months and in these own years, especially for what it does to the economic recovery of this country and for what it does to projects that help us generate work and projects that generate ecosystem, that generate work in this digital field... And the Government of Catalonia has worked hard at the length of these months to achieve, for example, investments as important as the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean, or as it may be that a submarried cable arrives in Catalonia, or as it may be, for example, as we did today, that the Mobile widens, its contract, a year more. This is working for the digital future of this country and for a future of opportunities for the citizens of this country in an economy that is each time more present and more important. As indicated by the later EPA. The later EPA tells us that, in the first quarter of this year, employment in the ICT field in Catalonia has increased. You're screwed, huh? There are sectors that are patenting, such as tourism, trade, and large industries, but in change, we have other positive news. The technology sector is stronger than ever. It's a sector that needs to be protected, we need to help. And that means doing digital policies that are active in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.177.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, the deputy has a turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.178.0	Thank you, President. The counselor says we're at the end, I guess he has more information than I do. For me there is no end, this is a continuous session of work for the society in which we live and in which we believe. He says welcome to digital politics. No, no, no, no, no. I didn't have to explain anything right. We've always been in digital politics. Look, it's been a while since supercord theory says even a tree isn't analog, it's digital. Citizens is a hundred_per_cent digital game, and we were largely born there. Another thing is that you confuse speed with bacon, and it seems to you that you are the golden calf of digital politics and nothing further from reality. [[Greetings.]] I mean, nothing further from reality. You do not make a digital policy, you are drawing a digital policy for an identity policy, and there logically we will never meet. That's normal. I'm not gonna be surprised. You've brought down my people. Well, yeah, the other day I went to Esterri to an act and I crossed the Bonaigua, and they're making microstains, they're passing fiber in a very expensive way. Very well done, buried microstains, georadar... i.e. nothing to object to. Very well done. With enough cables for possible extensions. But, allow me, we already had fiber optics in Viella. Yeah, seven or eight years ago. So why are you guys prioritising taking fiber optics to Viella when private companies are already giving that support, right? I take advantage of the fact that there is light, stenographers, assistants, and that it is in the Minutes. We don't feel bad about what they're doing with Xarxa Oberta, but we have serious doubts, it's our obligation. Can you assure me here, publicly, and on record, that this in a few years' time does not end up being a Telefónica bis? , that what we have paid all Catalans will not end up in the capitalism of friends privatized by a_euro? I'll wait for your answer and we'll wait for time. You get a power of how to be the only digital in Parliament. Look, if anything you've learned, the sauce I've cooked in my life has been sports and computer science. In both places, what I've learned is to be humble. In sport because there's always someone faster than you, and in computer science because, when you start to understand something, they change it, and you're back at the head of the road and you have to start again. You don't, you don't need grandmothers, I tell you with all due respect. A little self-criticism. I think there are so many things that don't work... He says: "How will we do this if there is no more budget? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Man, by doing things better, it's not all about money. Since you don't need a grandmother, I'm going to explain a story about my grandmother: she bought me a book when I was a kid and every month she put me twenty-five pesetas of those in the savings boxes, and she made me read – I was learning to read, if I knew if I was a little boy–, she made me read what I put on the front page. And I was able to read together: "Peace does not give you what you want but what you spend, which was the motto of confederate savings boxes. The more money you have, the more you spend. But it's not a directly proportional relationship. In your case, from your advice, I think it's inversely proportional, that is, the more you spend, the worse it is. It is not a matter of money, it is a matter of efficiency, of management, of knowing how to manage public resources with responsibility. Because you do, you fill our mouth with digital and digital and digital, but you don't charge in bitcoins or Monopoly money, you charge in euros, and your department and all companies and contracts and subcontracts. We asked, a long time ago, why this excessive increase in CTTI? The answer: "Well, of course, because before – by putting a figure, round numbers – "for if we took a thousand euros to a department and they managed them, the computer, the thousand euros, because now we don't give them to them, we give them to CTTI, and from CTTI we manage everything. But then what we've been looking at, with the documentation we've been asking for, is that every time there's a job from CTTI to that hypothetical organism that before received a finalist direct money for its computer management, because then there's an agreement and they charge back, they're charging twice. So of course we won't get the money, if we double spending and don't increase productivity, we won't kill ourselves with telework because we won't get anything. Counselor, we are at the door of a new world. Me, really, huh? I repeat, we have always been in computer science by professional deformation, by belief, and because the world is digital and not analog, as I have already told you, says the theory of supercords, but that we also learn from machines, eh? I'm thinking of a film I saw a thousand years ago, Blade Runner, that when Batty, the replicator that Tyrell Corporation, Deckard, wants to withdraw, the Blade Runner, when he's about to die what he does is save the life of the human and explains everything about: "I've seen ships coming out beyond Orion, and C-rays at the door of Tannhaüser, it's time to die, everything will be lost like tears in the rain. Don't let it happen, let's learn and get out of the Covid crisis stronger and fairer. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. You have the word for the reply, the counselor, Mr. Jordi Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.180.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, yes, I try to govern politics by fact, by a lot and if I can be the right words. You, listen, it's not that I don't believe, say, that they're really trying to push digital policies now, but they haven't done so far in the legislature. Hard to tell, it's just that the checks are there, huh? Zero motions submitted, zero interpellations, zero questions. They weren't interested in anything. For the first time in plenary session you raise a topic related to digital policies, which tell me to make a move. Escort, enchant! I wish I had done so, I say again, to the beginning of the legislature; I could have collaborated with many initiatives because, as I said before, many of these projects... Listen, is it identity to want to deploy fiber optics for the country? Is he an I.D.? Is it identity to want to renew the Mobile contract one more year? What does a submarine cable arrive in Catalonia? Or bet on the Mediterranean 5G corridor? Or for the Dona TIC plan? Is that identity? Listen, I.D.'s applying 155! That's what you do, apply 155 of Catalonia when he does things that he doesn't like. Digital policies are at these times necessary policies, essential policies if we want to tackle the challenge of economic recovery, if we want this country to be a country with job opportunities, and therefore, listen, welcome people to be with this young man, I repeat, that we will look at it with great pleasure and try to make all the contributions that are needed. We're in a moment, in a moment of change, huh? In a moment of change, a lot of change, you said so too. When things are really changing those who don't change, they lose, and those who change, from time to time, they win. And, therefore, this country must take'smolt' seriously the changes that this new era means. And this requires policies, in this case too many other areas, but above all also digital policies. And also, I take advantage of the occasion to say that digital policies are obviously not just the projects I have already commented on, but also because this will affect politics, affect democracy, affect a new society. And here we must bear in mind what the rights and freedoms mean, and the fundamental rights. I just want to ask them one thing: they do this country a favor, they do Catalonia a favor, they do Juan Ramón Rallo more; sure they follow him, sure they follow this economist who was the first economist, say so, from a liberal country, as you are supposed to be, who are for some things but not for others, who say very clearly that the digital decree, the digital law is an authentic shame. Not for Catalunya, huh? for Spain. Therefore, do more to Juan Ramón Rallo and in this case do not do like the Lords of Podemos, that one time the government has already forgotten this decree. They said here, in a parliamentary session, that they would do, and double the PSOE with this decree approved by Mr. Sánchez, and we're still waiting for it. I would like you to recover, therefore, that hope of opposition and, therefore, that this decree, that it is a harmful decree for the rights and freedoms, not just of the citizens of Catalonia but of the whole State, put it in the needle, do this favor to society, now that they are..., it seems that we are members of the PSOE, are influential and intend that they do more than in the common and in the Podemos, and derogue, if you please, this decree, that it is harmful for the digital society and above all nocturn for the rights and digital responsibilities of the citizens of Catalonia and also of the Spanish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.181.0	Thank you, Counselor. The twenty-four point of the order of the day is inquiry... yes? Why ask me the word, Congressman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.182.0	President, three seconds for contradictions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.183.0	No, no, there are contradictions, I'm very sorry. Thank you, Congressman. [[Asking the Government about the strategy to guarantee the right to housing]] [[300-00275/12]] The twenty-i-four point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the strategy to guarantee the right to housing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia In Comú Pode. She has the word for her presentation, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.184.0	Thank you very much. They'll excuse me if I pass the mask, but I understand how you're predicting that in activities that may be incompatible with the use of the mask with the fact that it's done, you can get it, and I think I'll explain it and it'll be better understood if I don't wear it, so I get it. I think it was necessary to cheer up as we have seen people who did and people who didn't. Counselor, he's changed my place, too. I'm having a little fun with that. Begin. For more than two years, we have seen, we have seen, we have seen, from the escalate of the mortgage cylinder to the escalate of the logger cylinder, we are living in a crisis of the emergence of permanent housing. What started with an emergence ended with a structural emergence, with a chronic crisis. I, in fact, would like to take advantage of the fact that we are here in this faristol to make a brief reference to the conclusions of the report submitted by the DESC Observer last June that the advisor surely knows... [[Widow's remorse.]] If you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.185.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.186.0	It's just that he's feeling a lot, I'm sorry. The report is "The evolution of the 2008-2019 denonations, from the emergence to the consolidation of a housing crisis. I'm sure the councillor has read it, but I'd love to get it here in his parliamentary office. The report quantifies that from 2008 to 2019 there were more than 130,000 denunciations in Catalonia, which could have affected more than 323,000 people, and notes, precisely, that the one that in the years 2008-2012 was an initial situation of emergence, has now become a permanent reality. Some of the conclusions that the report makes, as we already say: the denunciations derived from the default of the logger have increased exponentially, gaining territories to the denunciations derived from the mortgage execution; the protection of persons who had suffered bank abuse or on the basis of other regulations has improved with the passage of time basically thanks to the work of social organizations such as the Platform of Affections for Mortgage. The report rightly states that each time there are also more denunciations per occupation, especially from 2016-2017. Many families who had already been expelled in the first wave of denunciations and who had to access a habitation without title afterwards because they had no housing alternative have been double denunciations. These charges were speeded up just in 2018 with the approval of the popular party's so-called anti-occupation law that held the support, let's remember, of Convergence and Union. The evolution of the denunciations from 2008 to 2019 is, in effect, the consequence of a housing model that does not work, of standards that have before them the interests of those they most have, the speculative interests and the interests financed over the right to housing. Counselor, this is a brief diagnosis, a brief introduction to ask you the question we want you to answer in your intervention, if possible. What has his government done to deal with the housing emergency, now consolidated as the housing crisis? We said this morning: Catalonia has its own skills in housing, but we consider that its government instead of assuming responsibilities to give answers to a basic need such as housing, acts in an erratic and reactive way, and pulling pilots out. I'd like to take advantage of it to challenge. It's a lot of reference to the things that have been said to be done by the state coalition government, and they have every reason to claim them, but it's a government that carries six-month rule, of which three have been in the middle of the pandemic, in the middle of the emergence. You've been ruling here for two years. Two years. They should know what they have been able to do and what they have not been able to do in two years and be a little more humble at the time of demanding that those who wear six months and still have a term to complete what they have purchased to do. Come back. Two years ago, just speaking of completing, a motion from our group on housing policies, which was approved that the Government boosted the National Pact for the Right to Housing, which set objectives and priorities. What did Councilman Calvet do in this sense? We'd like to know if there's been any kind of momentum... any progress in the sense of this national pact? We haven't heard from him, he hasn't seen him, he hasn't been expecting him. One of the things that was also in this young man – we insisted, two years ago, that the government had to complete because it approved the Parliament – was the territorial area of the housing sector, which was the government's great tool for planning and for moving forward in order to achieve this 15_percent of official protection housing. What has happened to this territorial area of housing, counselor? Because the latest information we have, in fact the website is not updated since May 2019, is that it went to public consultation on March 14, 2019, but we didn't know any more. A plate that two years ago we put in "immediate approval in six months, and at these heights we still have no news of its definitive approval. What his government did in housing matters was basically two failed decrees, and one that it did manage to approve, after they understood that they would have to talk to social organizations, with assemblies and with parliamentary groups. In fact, counselor, I would also like to ask you if you could meet with the social organisations, you personally, those who work for the right to housing, if you could meet with the union of lodgers, if you could meet, recently, with the driving committee of the ILP 24/2015, for example, to talk about who are the proposals to give out to the housing emergency, which has been made worse by the pandemic but that it has come from a long time ago and that simply what we are seeing now is an exponential growth. We would be pleased if you could explain to us whether you have had these conversations and what would be your Government's response to the proposals made by the entities. We, in two years, haven't seen him do anything. We have already commented on the disappointment that we were supposed to see who were the motions for resolutions that led to the reconstruction plenary. The measures they have announced, and you know, are absolutely insufficient, counselor. In fact, that you did not appear in the press wheels that the government did daily to explain what the government's response to social and health emergency was also a sign; it is also a sign of why this government did not consider it a priority to talk about housing to give response to this emergence that we are living. But, counselor, as you know, we also like to be purposeful, from our group, we like to say what things we think should be done, how we think they should be done and offered to work with them, and that is what we will do in the motion that we will put forward, that will have proposals most of which we have been able to gather with the social entities that work the right to housing. For example, a platoon of xoc; a platoon of xoc with external resources to deal with the emergency that will require giving the response to the crisis caused by the pandemic. Counselor, we would like to know from these resources that will arrive external to face the pandemic, to face the social, economic and health consequences of the pandemic, which proposal you will make to defend the habitating among these priorities. Because we heard about education, we heard about sanitation, but we didn't hear about housing, and we'd like to know that. And he knows that it's not just a resource issue, that it's also a matter of making the regulations we have right now, deploying and redefining technical resources so that we can deploy everything that's already collected in the 24/2015 and the decree that has recently been approved, and that are in force and that can be implemented. In fact, at the meeting that you held with the 2015 ILP group a year ago with President Torra, for example, one of the things that there was, which was apparently a simple thing, such as making a campaign to spread which are the rights that are collected on 24/2015 because many times it is the lack of information that makes the great abusers of families; President Torra committed to doing so on September 2019 and I understand that we are also waiting for something simple enough as it is to make a campaign. I'm just going over some of the things I've been doing. The topic of help logging. Counselor, the strategy is absolutely erratic, change the criteria without warning, and leave hundreds of families without help that they had always had and that they suddenly and again stopped having, a help that they were counting on. At the end of the four summonses, the number of aids donated has been lowered. The regulatory bases have been modified so that people who normally access them now stay out, like the great people, who you yourself have had to recognize with this extraordinary call that you have helped to reach out to the great people, like dependent people, and – we have also commented – it is as though it is required to help you access the help of being a victim of male violence. Quick facts: 2017 was allocated EUR 125_million to help the loguer, 2018, 136; 2019, 86, and 2020 was one of the themes that we had most difficulty keeping from our group to agree and that, in reality, satisfied people did not come out, because they are 76, and we had to make a challenge to the law of measures to get 23_million more in order to complete the help to the loguer. Counselor, we think you need to defend more resources for housing policy, and we're going to do it with the rest of your government. And finally, a quick theme that doesn't give me time to deploy and I'll try to do next time, which is the theme of the touristic floors. Counselor, we would like you to explain to us what is the proposal that makes your advice, that makes your government, to get the hundreds, thousands of touristy floors that there is now very empty incorporate into the regular market of logging. What's the proposal that's made? For example, and it's just an example, what the Barcelona Assembly has done is work with Apartur to get there to make arrangements to give way to these floors to accommodate vulnerable families or families who are in infra-habitat. And recently, Mayor Ada Colau made public a letter that led to this agreement. We would like to know if your government has any initiative to respect, because the only one we could see was the help they gave to compensate the owners of tourist flats for keeping them empty. We believe that what needs to be done is to stop these habitats from going to the residential park. And I'll go on, on the second side, I'll finish this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.188.0	Good afternoon, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. Madam Member, the truth is that I always have the feeling, when I talk to you, not to talk to a parliamentary group, but to talk to the representative of the municipal group of the Government of Barcelona to the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a feeling, huh? However, in any case, you have started by reminding me of the DESC report, by the Observatori DESC 2008-2019, 2008-2019. Clearly, habitat policies are always long-cycle. They're always a long cycle, huh? At least, a three-year-old cycle, huh? To prepare the land, then to build, then to deliver the habitats and also, therefore, any – was talking about promoting official protection habitat – another measure also involves a long cycle because you are intervening – the word is "intervention" – on a complex market. Clar, 2008-2019. The 2008 that carried the policies of Medi Ambient and Habitatge was, vaja, a tripartite government with the council of Initiative to the captivating. I know it's not quite the same, but you are, in short, the heir of that political force, aren't you? And, therefore, what you told me about the 2008-09 policies, so, listen, yes, 2010 there was still the tripartite government with the Medi Ambient and Habitat policies in the hands of what you represent now. And then, in 2011, yes, effectively, the Department of Territories and Sustainability with Councillor Recoder took over the housing policies. And we were in the midst of a crisis, a crisis, certainly, therefore, motivated among others, for the real estate sector or for the finance sector related to the real estate sector. We were many years before we were able to get back into operation at the Habitatage Agency and, therefore, well, you talked about the 2008-2019 DESC report going through the top than the policies which, therefore, shows this 2008 report, but which, I insist, are long-term, depending on you, so I am surprised. I'm surprised, frankly. In any case, we have now recovered some capacity from the Incasól and the Habitatage Agency to refer to the fact that you have misappropriated a debt that has left us paralyzed. Normally, housing policies must also be countercyclical, that is, when the market is good, so, listen, rules; when the market is not good, promote. We weren't able to do it because there wasn't a euro in the cove; there wasn't a euro or a euro, was there? And that was the tripartite governments, with the Department of Environment and Habitat, carried by a political force that was given Initiative for Catalonia. So, listen, if you're talking about the DESC report, you're talking about property. In any case, I take the opportunity to send a message of support and call from the families and people who have suffered or are still suffering from the effects of the Covid, especially these days, Lleida's veins and veins, which are confined. And to give a clear message that, indeed, housing policies are priority policies for the Government of the Generality, and that when we talk, for example, about economic recovery and social protection, housing policies have a lot to see. One might think that when we talk about economic reactivation, we only talk about industrial policies. Or, when we talk about social protection, we only talk about, strictly speaking, what makes reference to social aid. And often the Department of Territories and Sustainability is packed with a department, therefore, of infrastructure, of mobility, of... Listen, we are economic recovery and social protection, and housing has a lot to see, because housing is also economic recovery and, especially in this cycle you see, it will surely be rehabilitation and also social exploitation. Surely, there's more work to be done in the proper months – I dare say that years – it is precisely to ensure that there are no situations of vulnerability because of the inability to maintain the habitat, either in ownership or in logue, because the usual vulnerability to enter through the door of the habitat, huh? And, therefore, we'll get a lot old because that's not the way it is. We've done it, we've done it historically, and we've done it now, too. I would like to refer very briefly to five aspects – which we will then be able to expand – which we have done. You were complaining to me that you didn't get out on press wheels. Home, the Precise Wheels of the Procicate has followed the Councillor, the Councillor and the Councillor. But it's that the Presidency Councillor and the Interior Councillor and the Health Councillor have explained to the Premises of the Procicate, during the pandemic, a fundamental aspect with which we have advanced to everyone. And not because we're all ahead of each other, but simply because it was up to us to do it. And, in fact, from what we did, a lot of other people went after us. And we explained it, maybe, to the first wheel of press. He complains to me that we didn't get out, but it's that at the first round of press we already explained, patapam, that we made a moratorium on the payment of the logger of people and families who are in a public park habitation. Home, god-n-hi-do! Behind us, everybody. The Barcelona Assembly, among others, why did he cheat, huh? But then, the rest of the autonomous communities. And I'm saying this in property because we've done these sectoral conferences with the ministry, in fact, with the Secretary of State, and so we shared experiences and, from what I explained, other autonomous communities also did this type of moratorium. Not everyone has the public park we have in Catalonia: more than 20,000 units, in fact 24,000, among others also increased from tanteig and retraction, which – oh, surprise! – you do not have everyone, nor governments, therefore, that can answer more or less to what you represent politically. Either this morning in the debate or in the debate on the motion presented by the PSC, with the question made to me by Congresswoman Rosa Ibarra, you mentioned the empty habitats. And I was also very surprised by the denial of a policy being made by the Government of the Generality: or so, the only ones that we have regulated a tax on empty habitats, with which we receive – now I am talking about memory – the year 2018, I think we have collected 18_million euros, which we apply to many and retract, and you remember that the Government is not making a king in empty habitats. The only ones that have a regulation on empty habitats and that all that we receive in its entirety to buy habitats by chance and retract that increase the public park of habitats, and you keep it in the debate on the motion. I've been, in the end, hallucinated. In any case, I didn't go out to the press wheel because the Presidency Counsellor explained that we actually enabled this moratorium in paying for housing and premises for the agency and the Incasól promotions. What else did we do? So yes, manage grant requests to pay for those affected and affected by the impact of Covid-19. And here we were very incisive and we went repeatedly and demanding that the State authorize an extraordinary match for these help to pay for the lodger. And, finally, and a little bit of plowing, the government you're part of has set up a 100-million-euro-100-million-euro game to be distributed to everyone. Absolutely insufficient. And we denounced it from the beginning and from the first moment. And, moreover, we have been approached by 14 and mig, which is not, vaja, neither the population nor the GDP nor the value of our housing stock, 14 and mig. So we're going to complement it with the contingency fund with five million more. But, indeed, this is insufficient – it is insufficient. And it's not that we have to put 40 million more to get to 60 or 70 than at these times we have requests from people and families who have done so, we have the call suspended, but it is suspicious as to the admission of new requests, it is not suspicious as to the delay or the payment. We don't suspect her in terms of the process or in terms of the payment. They're going through and next week they're going to start paying for the well-expressed and well-completed data. And the next week the requirements will come out because those who have not expressed their data well, so they can answer and complete them before August 1 so that they can continue paying. But on suspicion it does not mean that we are neither processing nor paying, because it is working every day because these summonses pull forward. The next week we'll pay approximately 200-250 that already have all the good data. What else have we done? So, the orderly administration of benefits to the payment of logger, which we advanced to the great people and to the women victims of male violence. We've pushed the ICF3 funding line, huh? , a line of funding to help, precisely, communities and individuals, people and families rehabilitate their habitats, especially taking into account energy efficiency. Again, economic reactivation: habitating, economic reactivation oriented to the Green Agenda. And from that, let's say, more standard, so, we're... You were asking me for the Housing Sectoral Plan and the National Housing Pact, so there's still work going on. Surely, the Habitat Sectoral Plan will have to have an initial approval, among other things because with a message that you have introduced to us you have claimed that we introduce the assemblies that have high demand for official protection. And it's going to take a few initial approvals, but we'll do it, we'll complete the sectoral plan, and we'll push the National Habitats Pact forward. And for the way we press the maximum of Decree 17/2019, this decree of urgent measures that you have also collected, and where we have introduced very important issues that cannot be missed. Do you know what worries me? That the government of the state can recoil him. You're linked to the government of the state to ensure that this decree is not passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.189.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.190.0	Well, thank you very much. Counseling, in fact, that you think that from 2008 to 2019 the data that reflects the report have to see with what it was done from 2008 to 2010 and from 2010 to 2019 you did not have anything to see with the results when the main peak of denunciations was 2012, 2013, 2014... Because if you consider that I can be herd of the people who ruled during the tripartite, which I will not enter now to discuss it, it is clear that you are the hero of the government that there was in those years, of the government of the Artur Mas, of the retails of the government of Mas, of the 3_per_cent of the government of Mas. So, you're also responsible for this, then. And not only that, too, of all the resources, which now go from the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. So, if we're talking about herencies, we can all talk about herencies. Or the party that gave support to the law that doesn't work, the express denunciations. You're also an heir to this. So, I understand that you have to go out and defend yourself, and you have to go out on the defensive on these issues, but this has caused you not to respond practically to what I have raised. And we haven't talked about that there's nothing about the empty housing tax, I told him that they're not punishing, that's something that can also be done. But it looks like it costs them, like sanctions. It seems that imposing a tax does, and it is fine, and, moreover, thanks to the negotiation of assumptions, bonuses have been eliminated from that tax, but your sanctions..., is a word that disappears from your vocabulary when they intervene. He has also not challenged me many of the other proposals that I have made to him: whether he intends to defend more resources for housing the money that comes from the State for the shoal. And now I'm gonna go in there... see if I have a little bit more luck and talk to me about the touristy floors in the next intervention. We talked about what his proposal is to deal with the fact that there are hundreds of empty floors that are not being used and that there are families in a vulnerable situation that could access these empty floors. Some of the demands made by the Llogateres Union, I take advantage of to translate them - there, and they are not my, counselor, that I only transferred them. And that if you met, you would also transfer them personally. The tourist accommodation logger, the Facilitating Law of the economic activity that this Government wants to approve allows 365 days of accommodation to be hosted in the year up to four tourists. Is that what you think you're really going to get to punch the bottle in the logger? When a person thinks that if he is dedicated to touristic rooms he will be able to pick up much more than by renting the piss to a family in Barcelona or Badalona or the Hospitallet or Tarragona? How do you think that'll affect the bottle in the logger? Work on legislative changes to establish the expiry of the current cases and to limit some of the other cases to fill the pockets of the others. What are they going to do with the tourist flats? How can your government control the fraudulent use of seasonal contracts that are now being used to support regular residential contracts? This is something his government can do, it can investigate and it can sanction according to the Law of the Right to Housing, because the Law of the Right to Housing contemplates as a very difficult crime to target tourist habitat usual habitat, which is what is now being done with tourist floors itself, because it has gone up– if you have followed a little bit of the real estate portals– a 260_per_cent offer of seasonal loguers, in a period that we know is not that many people are coming to Catalonia for time. Counsellor, I would like to repeat some of the proposals put forward by the ILP promoter group 24/2015, which were put to the vote in a motion for a resolution to the reconstruction plenary and which their group voted against. I would like to, if it can be – if it can be – to respond to these concrete themes that present it. I will simply read it: "Emergency measures. Immediate application of a shoc plan to set the Emergence Table to zero, and to people who abuse pensions and on the street guarantee them a decent and adequate reallocation. This, moreover, is one of the agreements that we reached with the negotiation of assumptions. We'd love to know who this plan is. « Sanctify the great owners who do not offer social loguer obligatori. Signing of agreements to end energy debts. This belongs to Councilwoman Chacón, but we would also like to know at some point how the topic of the agreements is. And what I said, activate a communicative campaign aimed at the people so that they know the rights of the 24/2015 Law. It's not that hard, is it? "Activate help to the loguer on a permanent basis and with sufficient resources to cover all the demand, not on the basis of calls, and facilitate telematic requests for information. The mandatory standard, which has already approved a young man, in this sense, too. "Structural measures. Effectively exercise the mandatory cessation of fully existing empty habitats since February 21, 2019. We would like to know what has happened in this sense and what they think they are doing, how they intend to expand the eligible park in Catalonia; how they intend to increase the parties for housing and social rights. "Change – and now I'm telling you – the tourist flat claims so that they move on to the permanent and non-temporary logger market. Counselor, there are many more proposals. It would be good if, for one time, it was a waste of toilets and tell us what you intend to do to cope with the housing emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.191.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... honourable Member, to go to the grass, you... no, I left'mfer a reflection before. I recognize them, of course, the knowledge of habitation and interest. I don't recognize them as a grace, do I? That I could offer him, right? , just like the ability to discuss complexity and make decisions for the benefit of people. But don't deny the Major, she constantly denies the Major. So, from the first day we talked about housing you and I denied the Major. Or else, we don't do anything to the generality, the only ones who do things are the gatherings... And I once told him, and I repeat, that I'm doing this kind of opposition, that it's quite legitimate, I think it doesn't do any favors to the professionals working on housing, magnificient professionals, together, obviously, also to the Generality, to the Habitat Agency and to Incasól or to the people, right? Because it's being promoted, it's being managed, it's pulling forward the right of choice and retraction, it's being pushed forward legislation, for example, and I repeat, in order to regulate an imposition on empty habitats, it's a decree of emergence – with its support – with which we introduce very innovative themes, among others, also, everything that refers to endowment habitats, it's still working – and certainly with difficulties, but it's still working – with the sectoral plan and with the national pact. But this morning, in the debate of the young lady, the Member of Esquerra made use of a phrase I liked, huh? , which said: "Let us not bow our heads more or less, shall we not? Let's not get in the way of the head. It's just that many of the things that you're referring to are these, sectoral aspects of housing, all of them very important, because after there are people, there are families that suffer, but we'd have to go a little bit over the top, right? The competence is of the Government of the Generality, effectively, developed through instruments suitable for the Generality and for the conjunctions, but we lack finance, and I always say it: we lack and we lack and we lack finance. And the figures of the National Housing Pact, which is the official nomenclature, are not enough, and punish Catalonia – punish Catalonia –, and punish Catalonia not only in the initial endowment but also in the withdrawal of something that, when I was Director General of Habitatge, many years ago, there was, that allowed us to search and invest more money, which was the Efficiency Fund. All this... you're in the state government. You do the favor that there is more talent, that the distribution is more just with Catalonia and that it is recovered in formulas like that of the Efficiency Fund, that allow us to make better policies, and we do not cheat for the wreaths. Because, listen, the competitive battle, that if you join it, that if here, that if there. Look, if there are the resources that they touch, it is distributed correctly and there is the Efficiency Fund, many of the discussions that we have and I would not have, because there would be an effective policy, so, potent, there would be an effective policy that would allow us to develop the main ingredient of the reception of housing policies, among other things, that there is more promotion, public and private, but more promotion of social logger. On account of gathering recent policies... I have now felt the last thing that needs to be done: a state pact or a state housing pact; neither pacts nor ministries, which must have been money, and which is shared. Because we already know; not who is talking to them, who is advising, poor of him, not the magnificient professionals we have at the Habitatage Agency, the Incasòl, the Barcelona Assembly or so many other gatherings that touch the housing policies well. So, how do I repeat the barricade over the wreath, so, in fact, it's legitimate, huh? But it doesn't seem to me that he's the one who plays – it doesn't seem to me that he's the one who plays. The state has now made its decree to this, 26/2020, with transport and housing issues. It doesn't have a significant impact, because everything that you say this royal decree is already doing. In any case, do you know what I found missing, and have you been able to gather from your political strength as part of the government? Some mechanism for prolonging the renewal of the denunciations. It has begun its intervention by speaking of denunciations and it turns out that the State makes a real decree, on 26/2020, and does not postpone denunciations, even in cases where social vulnerability derived from the Covid-19 is believed. It's not there, and that's what the State did – that's what the State did – and you form part of the State..., it forms part of the Government of the State, its political strength, and it's not there, is it? Or on the subject of temporary loggers. Listen, you forget that the lawsuits of the tourist apartments give them to the joints, and so that from here, therefore, there is a clear regulation that, after the excess than in surplus, because there are also no ones, so it is allowed to dedicate it to social habitats. Or the subject of the sanction. Sanctions must begin in the first instance on the part of the assemblies, and when it is not done, when it is not done and it is precisely so, when it is not done subsidarily can apply them to the Generality. And lastly, you have asked me to do – I finish, President – a campaign that we promised and did not do: the campaign is done; the campaign is done, the campaign is done, the campaign is expressed. [[The counselor shows a full camera.]] And I'll teach him the infographic that we used to pin it to the courts and to pin it to a lot of barrels in the country that need to know this kind of information, which is what the government is developing. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.193.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about Aran as a national reality]] [[300-00276/12]] The twenty-five point of the order of the day is: Asking the government about Aran as national reality. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Ms. Anna Geli has the word for the presentation of the inquiry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? You're right. One moment. The order is correct. Yeah, yeah, he's changed. No, no, no, that's the right one. The order has been changed and now you see an inquiry. The twenty-four point of the order of the day is this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.194.0	What am I doing, then, staying?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.195.0	No, no, yes, I stayed's, I stayed's, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.196.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.197.0	I'm sorry, I'm putting time on it now. You're right – you're right. I can start, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.198.0	All right, all right. All right. Good afternoon, President, Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members... From the Presidency he was thought to be a figure now Secretary of Local Administration and Relations also Aran. A figure created, advised, at the beginning of the current legislature before giving now willing to hold the maximum institutional and bilateral respect between two Catalan administrations, as atau merca was Lei d'Aran. So that we could say that this is what I'm going to pour into the table of dialogue and negotiation and not so much dilhéu was that promises eth Spanish Government. Good. I started out as an intervention in everything to quote was provision for the first addition to the Law of Aran; what law passed in 2015 in a Madeish Parliament and which says this: « Eth Parliament of Catalonia recognizes eth right deth people spiders to decide eth are future. It takes place – six years ago – for all parliamentary groups of emigrants except for the PP and Ciutadans. Because this additional article says that it is also approved by the Socialists, a party which, in turn, has positioned itself against the right to decide on the future of the Catalan people. It is strange and strange plan to co-exist political and ideological contradictions throughout today's arguments following the agreement or following the turn of the day. Because I still believe that Mr.Iceta defended a referendum in Catalonia, and there is no problem with it. He stood by, recognized, and respected Aran as a Catalan demonstrable to be able to defend himself in a prigundial way and was so singularized that he was now freed from the Aranians. Tanben eth recognizement of his language, his institutions, his traditions and, as it were, his self-government. By late, August 17th past June eth president of this Generalitat, eth plan aunorable Quim Torra, now assisting the National Hesta of Aran. He arranged for all the Arani, especially for those who had been at the end of his career in all health and social work for Covid-19, and he heard a feeling of dead people, and then, in his show of affection and respect, all was his intervention in spiders; all of it, absolutely all, in spiders. Indeed, this is in spiders, because he was in a castle, which he also had an official tongue, and possibly spoken for a long time, but he was not his own land. Do you understand? It's clear that being a spider couldn't be a native language of, for example, me, El Puerto de Santa María, right? Voleria, tanben to make clear that you are lords of Citizens, of Ciutadans, will vote against this law der Occitan, spiders in Aran. And, therefore, defend themselves and the spiders, and the aurian voted in favour. We have asked for the present complaint to the Government of the State to respect was Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Tanben eth Treaty of Lisbon and Tanben eth besonh to respect was European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities, and it did not happen. It may take time for international institutions to know that it is a democraticly weak state to be Spanish, to use the force of travel and lawdoing so that in the first place there is proof of a desire that they still live in such a franchise. Coma ben saitz, eth Tribunau Constitucionau suspenec eth mot« prefernt esta Lei der Occitan, aranés en Aran. And who's holding you at the Constitution? Eth Socialist government of Zapatero. There is no such thing, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing! Eth Govt der State to promote measures before recognizing the spiders of this day madeish way that they recognize other official languages. They fasten the sentilh, they fasten the easy. That's what I'm saying. I'm telling you, I'm trying to get a political shinau. As at one time in a Madeish Faristòu call, again ask and question: don't you think that you have preferred to be in Aran a spoken language for four thousand people and that you live at my age of 46 million speakers of this castle? Don't you think, eh, Govèrn, that you're looking for positive discrimination from a stranger before you loved to ring and keep was a living tongue and you respect our past? Er spiders talk. We talk about it in a natural way. I'm talking about her too, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm talking about her, and I'm And he was Occitan, then, still spoken for a month of 3 million people in all Occitania. And, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, not all of you, if some of you would take Val d'Aran now and he was a spider too, all of you respected, and if you did not accept his condescension. We're small, we're luenh, not very important. For this reason I think that the age of so many political parties that do not stagnate when the Minister of Education deth PP of Alavetz is, Mr Mendez de Vigo, says that he is a foreigner who is more concerned about lauegi than he is about this language. Minister of Education, ladies and gentlemen! Spanish Minister of Education! You don't know where you were at that moment when it was education, Minister of Education. We're talking about Aran. Mess talking about Aran tanben and talking about Catalonia, for love that two national realities aspire to be pleasant and totally sovereign. Mesguarden: eth Catalan government has also not wanted to persuade Aran to build a finance model ship from Arani. That's why I want them to start negotiating in 2018, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and that at the end of the year it was only recently fruit was also 10 per cent applied to the Ath Conselh Generau d'Aran from the period 1991-2018. An increase, she advises, which knows will have an impact on all the annualities to pay by the end of 2020. So it's important, a few auts passed, I'm trying to highlight the integrated management model of Aran's emergencies. I would like, Councilwoman Budo, to have five of all the august defendants take over as a bilateral august, and what the ethos of Catalonia had to do with it was the Arane national reality. And here I like a little bit. So that Aran can have all the skills and can enjoy that they are self-governing – all the funding – he took over for the Generality. A small detail between comets that gives mass trips per het. Together for Catalonia and fully sensitive to the aspirations and now good understanding between so-called institutions, so-called respect and dialogue as well as to the extent that it is a combination of the Aranians, the Aranians, and by extension the inhabitants of this Pyrenees can have a model of life connected now with agriculture, agriculture, and what kind of person and profession continue to develop. It was bilaterau, then, repercussiond into that myelor sanitati, that myelor infraestructures, that myelor education, that myelor connection is also great cities. It was near the end of this optical fiber deployment that I was all-day Generalitat today will arrive there, in 2020, at our home. Month, remaining atth financing. Can you imagine what would happen, or if it happened between the Spanish state and Catalonia? Unfortunately, he's not well-natured. Badly, he didn't. The Spanish State has given Catalonia a huge tax deficit! Month of 16,000 million euros. And I ask myself, like him, that it is Catalan parties that his opposition does not stagger, and blame until now the Generality of all evils was not the Generality sufficient courses? What does that mean? Can you imagine that Catalonia does not give Aran eth finance that he deserves to rise again? How does Conselh Generate from Aran exist? Enguan, they have celebrated, if celebrán is thirty years now the first Law of Aran, of this special regime, approved in August Tanben Parliament, in 1990-1991, and that precisely allows the Aranesi to order again also eth sòn Govèrn, a government that, by the way, is going back to say, continues to abolish the Spanish governor in 1834. You see, the Spaniards like to abolish are Catalan or Arane institutions, they also follow a royal decree already follow it was application deth 155. Ager, eth president in exile, Carles Puigdemont, warns in the European Parliament that I must respect the rule of law in all countries, especially in those who seek to persecute the citizens of their ideas, that political dissidents, artists, journalists, as a series, are soon not? Ac know who they're talking about. Messing back then unfolding so far, we are definitely looking for critical beer. The oatmeal. As a joint critic, you think that as many of these Catalan governments as of these in this country we want to explain myelor, surely by experimenting in a language, that this we want to then be able to, then to keep it and then that it is ideological differences, and that it is personal journeys, do not end up hearing it. Here, we all have to go now Madeisha, all of us, and already as I warn Condò ena Song dera Garona: "Eth speak that I will give you, as I have given it, save it, as a good garden will salute it... Don't change! ...Tostemp Gascons! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And by the time I'm done, I'll be allowed to eth president of the august crampa that I'm asking that I own was Aran's Office in Parliament. The fact is that laws that manage the approvals of the emissary must now be translated into this language, which has already been completed, as soon as they are reviewed, they do not sound linguistically except legally. For this reason I am tomorrow the president, as I did, that I am now, as a minimum that I am complicating it also was her in that so many times the times that belong to the Parliament and for as long as she is now the office of the meijans, now the office of Aran in Parliament, that she is the office of the meijans that she deserves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.200.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Geli, for returning to her native language, which we cherish and respect. The Aran is, in fact, a national reality in Catalonia; a national reality with its own personality and differentiated based on the fact that the Arean community has a language and a culture of its own; it also has a language and a culture shared with the rest of Occidentia, and also an ancient tradition of self-government firmly defended by the Areans over time. And in this legislature, from the Government of Catalonia, we have given compliments to a historical demand, enclosing the relations of the Aran within the competences of the Department of the Presidency, creating specifically the Secretary of Local Administrations and Relations with the Aran. With the incorporation of the competitions of the Val d'Aran into this secretary, it is clear – I think it is a clear message that the Government of Catalonia does – the import of the Aran as a national reality, with political autonomy guaranteed by the State, and it also strengthens its ties with the Government of Catalonia and also compliments the Law of the special regime of the Aran. In fact, in March 2019 the government's executive council celebrated its ordinary meeting in the Aran Valley, Old Town, as a more than a show of the commitment of this national reality; a will and a commitment that we can also see materialized if we balance all the government's actions in this legislature. And the first one I want to highlight from this balance is the new funding model for the Aran. We will remember that it was during October 2018 when negotiations began to approve the stable financing agreement between the Government of Catalonia and the Conselh Generau d'Aran; a new financing model that you allow the territory of the Aran to have a management autonomy for its development. The fruits of these negotiations came to March 2019, a particularly positive one for the development of the Aran, with two very important approvals from the Government of Catalonia. For one band, March 11, 2019, the bases of Aran's new funding model were approved for a five-year period. And, on the other hand, and a few days later, concretely on March 22, he had the final approval of the financing agreement between the Government of Catalonia and the General Council of Aran. One of the outstanding aspects of this agreement is the application of the 10_per_cent increase on the aggregate of all transfers to the Aran General Council during the period 1991 to 2018, which will be reflected in four years to be counted from this year 2020. Moreover, this agreement, therefore, approves a stable financing that also allows the approval of new increments derived from the application of the IPC. But, in the band of this compromise with funding, we also had to come to terms with other commitments made, such as the institutional agreement to formalise the collaboration procedures related to the new model of the integrated management of energies to the Aran, which took place in May 2019, has now done everything just one year. As you know, since the year 2015, with the approval of the Law of the special regime of the Aran, the General Council has full competence in the management of the Emergency in the territory and the agreement establishes this new model of management of the Emergency and the based on a mixed model, in which a part of the fleet of firefighters will have exclusive dedication and the rest will have coverage with community firefighters, as it had been until now. The financing of this model will go to the Generality, like the rest of the public services, which will bear the cost of staff and operating expenses. And why are we doing this? Therefore, all this is done with the aim of working with the General Council of Aran on the implementation of a new model for the comprehensive management of emergencies in the areas of the prevention and fire-extinguishing service and also of mountain rescues that fall under the General Council of Aran. We also did this to maintain and improve the operational links of the emergency response device with the Catalonian Generality Firehouse, so that they also do so with the Aran's body in a coordinated and joint manner, and also establish all those mechanisms of participation between firefighters, emergencies and the Catalonian fire department. And after all these adventures, we arrive at this year 2020, in which as you know it is complete – and you also remembered us in your parliament – these thirty years of the approval of the Law of the Aran in the Parliament of Catalonia, a parliament and a law that recognize the uniqueness of the Arab people, that recognize their language and that recognize their ability to self-governance. And precisely this year 2020, after the month of generation, there is a later bilateral commission in which, among others, it was set up a commission to fix a new horizon of deployment of the Law of Aran. And in this same meeting we did not only take this important compromise of the future, but we also took concrete agreements, such as the transfer of functions from the Government of Catalonia, concretely from the Department of Territory and Sustainability, to the General Council of the Aran in the matter of managing the great carnivores of the protected wildlife to the territories of the Aran. Because the Council has to be able to manage effectively and effectively the management of the great carnivores of its territory and more concretely the presence of the bru bone, once completed the period of validity of the Life program. Therefore, honourable Member, and as a summary of this balance of government in relation to the Aran: will, compromise and execution of the deployment of its powers, which has not always been easy, but which this legislature I think we have managed to advance more than ever. And we did it from a bilateral relationship of mutual respect, also of alliance and also of recognition, and let him say that this relationship is exactly what we wanted to have the Catalans with the Government of the Spanish State. And now we're here, we have all these adventures on the table, but we have to keep going. We must continue to advance, and precisely these gains must serve us as the etiquette to identify a new horizon and work to complete nine strands. And of course one of the main challenges will be the protection and diffusion of the orange tree. As the President said on 17 June in Hista d'Aran: "In this Catalonia too will be there. If we save the orange, we'll certainly save the català. It is the same task, it is the same shared struggle, for the value of singularity, as its own contribution to universal culture. And it is that the Government of Catalonia is determined to advance in the recovery of the identity elements of the Aran: language, history, culture, historical rights and national recognition. And we want to push ahead with the progress for people, and that's why we've approved a stable financing system – as I explained – that allows all these actions to last. And because we are also in the recognition of the national reality of the Aran, we do not lose this horizon. Because we are also in the recognition of your right to self-determination, because Catalonia struggled for freedom and struggle for democracy of peoples. Because we have always understood plurinationality as a richness and not as a problem, and that is why we want to strengthen the ties of the Orange people and the Catalan people. I'm done. This legislature has marked a historical tape as to the recognition of the Arane singularity in the conjunction of the Catalan society, a tape that will allow us to advance for the freedom of all people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.201.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about autonomous public communication media]] [[300-00278/12]] Twenty-six of the order of the day is the question to the government about autonomous public communication media. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for its presentation, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.202.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Counselor, one more time we find ourselves here for an inquiry into the communication media. It's been a while since we had an opportunity to hold a debate, a dialog about the functioning of these public communication media that depend on your department. Since my last intervention, my last question about this question, few things have changed to TV3. Let's keep thinking, from our point of view, that TV3 acts like a government agitation and propaganda apparatus. We believe that TV3 is indeed a transmission correction of the messages of the separatist government. And all that I want to say to you today from the first moment I want you to make it clear that I think it's part of the plurality of a society. There are various visions of what Catalan reality is, there are various visions of what public communication means are and I believe that, precisely as Councillor Buch said before, we must try to have in this chamber rich debates about what our community is about, about which we live together and, therefore, the things that I can say to you that can be hard or blunt, I will try to do it in the most polite and curative way, so that the debate can be rich and thus achieve a benevolent arrangement on its part and that I need to answer some of the questions that I have thought about this inquiry. In the previous questions, usually every one of the criticisms I made about the functioning of public communication media, you replied that you are the government and that you have nothing to say or do about what TV3 does; the responsibilities told me that it was not his thing. So, very recently we have seen as the Councillor of Culture, Mrs. Mariângela Vilallonga, said scattered before the presence – to say her, excessive – of the majority language of Catalans, to the public television of Catalans, which is very curious of another band, considered that the presence of the castle on TV3 was excessive and scattered before this fact decided to give a knock to the direction of TV3. He said so, publicly, with no end in it. He acknowledged that he had recaptured the TV3 directive and that he had called it to the chapter, because he gave explanations of why the devil appeared with such a presence a language that, in principle, he would not have to appear on the public television of the city council of Catalonia. Well, that same argument, Mrs. Vilallonga repeats it yesterday also for what she does to this chamber. I thought that in the chamber where the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia are represented, with different political formations, in a society like ours, which is essentially bilingual, which does not mean that there are no more, of languages, there are no more languages. Now, that the main first languages of the citizens of Catalonia are the català and the castle and also the orange actually, but let's say that the most common, the most used for the citizens of Catalonia are these two, to me seems to be evidence that trying to deny it by saying that there are more than three hundred languages in Catalonia, I think it's a bit of a trap, if not more. In any case, one of the first questions I want to ask you, madame will advise, is whether you also consider that the presence of the castle on TV3 is excessive. And once you're on this line, I'd also like to know if, for you, the presence of the castle in this chamber is too much. I wanted to reflect on him in this sense. Before I felt so much the Councillor Puigneró as the Councillor Buch said two things: One, that the Councillor Puigneró said, that we are at the end of the street, that we are before an imminent election, that the legislature was over and that I imagine you must know something too, but in any case it seems to me that it is the ideal time for everyone to put their cards on the table. We, from Ciutadans, defend a bilingual model for Catalonia in its public sphere and above all to education, very useful for us, a trilingual model, in which the castle, the català and the English have a balanced presence, without entering in percentages but that no of the three remains expelled as the vehicle language. You – I don't think we're fooling anyone or discovering anything again – are in favour of a monolingual model. This is why Mrs. Vilallonga will disappear when the castle appears in a percentage of a 5, a 10 or a 12_per_cent on TV3. It is obvious that you are in favour of a monolingual model and I believe that, before an electoral scene like you draw, out of the ordinary, out of interest that you effectively recognize that what you ask for or pretend is a monolingual Catalonia. From this point of view too, she will advise, I want to give her a reflection. I think it would be very interesting and very interesting for the public debate in Catalonia that our Government, the Government of the Generality, make speeches, make speeches, make speeches, also address the citizens of Catalonia in the other language of the majority of Catalans, in the castle. I don't think I'd hurt them. In fact, I invite you, I encourage you to go out to this cliff and make an intervention in the castle, because it would not be such a strange thing; four minutes ago you made an intervention, surely because you don't dominate it so much, in orange. I think it would be a very healthy, very generous and very respectful thing especially with the conjunction of Catalonian citizenship, that you come out here and make an intervention with all nature as many of the citizens in the castle. Here is a bench, that of Ciutadans, which alternates in an absolutely natural, indistinct way, like the street, as do the citizens of Catalonia in the street, the Spanish language and the Catalan language. This is something that, for us, is normal. I have done so in our daily lives and I have also done so in the Parliament of Catalonia. I think it would be interesting and would prove that you really don't want a monolingual Catalonia, a Catalonia locked in itself, a Catalonia let's say that you reject and that you lack everything that is a manifestation of culture of the rest of Spain or of Spanish culture, that is fundamental to Catalan culture, it would be interesting that you also have the detail with citizenship – not with us, but with the city of Catalonia – to make a single, one-on-one intervention, as a castle. I think that... [[Greetings.]] Returning to the question of the attention touches, I would very much like to be challenged to a series of questions or to a series of questions that I immediately pass by. First, how many times has the Government of the Generality donated to TV3 during this legislature? Could you give us exactly, or more or less, the name of the stumps they've given them? Do you consider the presence of the castle on TV3 excessive? I repeat this question. Do you consider the presence of the castle in this Parliament excessive? To you it seems normal that the government of an autonomous community gives a blow to the direction of public television, because you see the presence of the mother tongue of most of the citizens of that same autonomous community? Which seems to me to be totally inverse, not to say delusional, but go ahead, I'll let you answer the question. And now a question you might even have an interest in answering. Do you also consider, like Mrs Vilallonga, that the castle is one of the three-hundred languages spoken in Catalonia? I, in fact, with all due respect for the enormous plurality of our society, which actually has a lot of languages, I think that as the most linguistic we speak to the citizens of Catalonia, better. Now, trying to dilute the importance of the Spanish language that is the majority – I insist – among the citizens of Catalonia, and to say that it is as important as the Urdu, the English, the French or any other to me, it seems to me that it really is to lack the truth and not to respect the authentic intrinsic plurality of Catalan society. And that's why I would ask you in this sense a lot more respect not for us, but also, that we represent more than 1.1 million Catalans who voted for us at the last elections, or for the voters of the People's Party or the Socialist Party or the commons, or even many of your voters who also have the castle as their mother tongue..., this less systematic of the Spanish language that you make in public space I think does not favor a public debate at least knows. What I said before: I think it is obvious that the presence of the Spanish language does not in any way harm Catalan, neither Parliament nor TV3. My question is if you consider it that way. Do you really consider that the presence of the castle in some measure damages the català to TV3, the Parliament or in the conjunction of our public life? I think that it is years against, I think that the confluence, the coexistence between català and castella is the rich precision of Catalan society, it is the naturality, the normality of our daily life, it is what we make most Catalans when we go to the market, when we go with friends to dinner, when we make our daily life. This is the daily life of Catalonia. Therefore, that is why I do not understand, I do not understand, it is absolutely incomprehensible to me, that you intend to establish a public debate, a public reality that is absolutely different from that of Catalonia. The streets of Catalonia are spoken indistinctly Catalan and Castilian. Because it must not be normal that in this Parliament it is spoken, exactly as in the street, in the castle, in the català, mostly, and also in the Aran when Members of the Aran have the need or the decision to make speeches in the Aranes, which seems to me to be healthier. That said, Madam Counselor, I believe that the interference of the Government of the Generality on TV3 has been made absolutely clear by the statements of Mrs. Vilallonga. I would like to respond to these questions, which I have been able to answer, and I would also like to remind you that the same chain workers, the same TV3 workers, have complained about the politicization, the partisan use of the Torra government with questions, such as the whitening of a tax evader, such as Mr Pujol, and other considerations of the chain line. I'd like you to talk to me about all these things and then we'll see each other again. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.204.0	Thank you, President. Bona takes another time, deputies and deputies. Miri, first of all, well, back off your words, Mr. Martín Blanco. Truly, therefore, we could not find ourselves, your group and ours, coming here to the government asking me an inquiry about the communication media, about our public communication media, right? But I see that, at this time and in these months, therefore, of parenthesis of this parliamentary activity, nothing has changed. I see that you continue with your obsessions, and continue with your parallel realities at the time of hearing that it is TV3 and how they work public media in Catalonia. Actually, let me remember it, so why not TV3, right? TV3 isn't even a few years ago, enough, thought of as an homologable television that state television is, that broadcasts generalist content in catalá and that it's a television that doesn't matter and that it bets on its own production, and it also does for the development of Catalan culture and language. TV3, therefore, has consisted with many other public and private television channels that emit strictly in the castle. And TV3, so, it's not with this will to do what I gave it, this diffusion of Catalan culture and language. And, in fact, one more time, and I will do it until you do, so I will appear here, to give, as it cannot otherwise be, all the explanations that you and the parliamentary groups are going to do, but I will do it and I will re-explain our model of public media and I will also re-donate objective data. Allow me first to introduce you to the use of language, right? A few days ago, Professor Xavier Vila, Director of the Department of Catalan Philology and General Linguistics of the University of Barcelona..., spoke precisely of sociolinguistics and a golden rule that says that languages only pervade because they have their own social functions, is to say, because they serve for something, functions that can be of practical or symbolic type, but that sense doubt the ideal for any language is to assume the functions of the two types. And TV3, as I said, was created precisely as a tool to normalize the language and to help in these particular social functions of the Catalan language. And Professor Vila said that in linguistics it is very simple: "If you want to make a language viable, equip it with its own functions; if you want it to disappear, take them all. So, from here on out, I ask you what you want to do with the català. And sadly I fear that the answer is sufficiently well known, because you precisely were born against linguistic immersion, and this is also one of the reasons for your repeated obsession with this chamber, to question the work of the public audiovisual media in this country. Look, I will tell you very clearly and answer your question: the Government does not exercise any type of political control over public media and the guarantee of this precisely in our model, a model of public media, which I have explained to you on other occasions, which explain Catalonia to the world and the world from a Catalan optics, which is the model of a television and a national radio – also a national radio – of quality. A model that – I have said many times – is based on three criteria that ensure this quality of public service of the corporation, and that are no more than independence, professionalism and economic viability. And to guarantee these criteria is to guarantee one of the fundamental pillars of democracy, such as freedom of information and political non-interference. And we can talk about independence thanks precisely to three types of control that guarantee it: parliamentary control, control of the Catalan Audiovisual Council and control of the Union of Accounts. And we can also talk about professionalism thanks to the criteria of all workers and workers of public audiovisual media, who with their pocket are and must be guaranteed freedom of expression. Guarantee of independence, guarantee of freedom of expression and guarantee of plurality, this is the model of Catalan public television. And I honestly believe that, more than that, that data shows it. Maybe you don't know the data, or maybe you don't like the data, but since the data doesn't respond to subjective criteria, you just respond to objective criteria, so I'll remember them. Look, today we're on July 9th and the data tells us that TV3 is starting to feel like audience leaders at other times. Because once we look at the June hearing, we can say that we are already thirty-five months old as a result of the hearing leaders. And this given is a historic record of uninterrupted leadership of a television channel. But what I would also like to highlight is that among the most viewed programs, because this is also important to know it, there are plenty of themes in TV3 programming. We have the information, we have the entertainment, we have the series, we have the documents. And, besides, I also want to highlight that TV3 is the most valued channel in June according to the GFK panel. And even though you have sometimes questioned GFK's data, so it turns out that this company, which is a multinational German market research and analysis company that produces reports on the quality ratings of viewers, is a prestigious company in Europe that has also made some important public televisions, so this company is the one that gives us the data that was moving it. But like you don't like these data that say TV3 is an impartial and plural television, and that the Catalan public media work from impartiality and plurality, and they don't like the data that say 6.8_million Catalans, that is, almost 93_percent of the people of Catalonia have connected for some time during this 2019-2020 season with our corporate media, so like they don't like these data, they misrepresent this reality. And what I can tell you is that precisely with data as objective criteria it can be said that the reality of the country is plural and that the majority of our country sees TV3 at one time or another. And I can also tell you that in this sense the amount of Catalans and Catalans that at some point or other consume any of the media of the corporation is enormous. Now, I also have to tell you, in our country people have no problem, because if we also look at the data from the intercanvi that is in certain programs like The Sixth, or Telecinco, or Antenna 3, or Spanish Television and TV3, you will also see how, for example, we are told that there are people watching the telenews and then passing on to Survivors switching from the channel, and therefore changing the television channel. So this is real Catalonia, and this is what TV3 has as its own television, even though you don't like it. I was asking myself more questions. I was wondering if I wouldn't have any problems, I don't know if I would have to answer that question to you in this sense. Look, I don't have a problem talking in the castle, but I come here, I speak in Catalan freely to the Parliament of Catalonia, because you know what's going on? That the Parliament of Catalonia does guarantee the right of Spanish speakers to come here to express themselves in their language in this Parliament of Catalonia, but the deputies of Catalonia do not have this right in the other chambers of the State, because the other chambers of the State do not guarantee this right that it does guarantee the Parliament of Catalonia. Look, you say you want to make a quiet debate, a debate will be, around the communication media. I invite them to when they want, so let's get through this quiet debate and be. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.205.0	Congressman, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.206.0	If in any case, then we continue, and with the second turn, then I will also answer the questions that you want to convey to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. Congressman, please, we're not going into a debate. Congressman, please. Ignacio Martín has the word for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.208.0	Yes; thank you, President. Well, counselor, nationalism definitely likes abstractions and chimeras more than tangible reality. Let's see, let's go to things and be a little realistic. Catalans have two languages, basically, we also have the spider and we have some other languages spoken here, but most Catalans understand each other perfectly in Catalan and Spanish. I tell you that, in Congress, in the General Courts, in the Senate, as a chamber of territorial representation, you can manifest yourself, you can express yourself in Catalan and in the rest of the Spanish languages other than Spanish. So, what we cannot claim is to deny a reality, which is that the Spaniards, in addition to having different languages different from the Spanish, have a common language all of the Spaniards, with which I believe that being a little reasonable and not involving us in nationalist and essentialist discourses and an ultra defence of a language as if it were an element of confrontation, but quite the opposite, should be an element of conveying dialogue. I think it is reasonable for everyone in Congress to express themselves with absolute naturality in the common language of all Spanish citizens. I don't see anything weird about that, honestly, and I think it's a mere exercise, a mere reflection of what reality is. You told me about the real Catalonia, counselor. Do you believe that the real Catalonia is a Frequently Asked Questions, a Frequently Asked Questions, the TV3 program in maximum audience on Saturdays, where one interviews, first to Toni Comín, former advisor of the Generalitat escaped from justice, then to the president of Ómnium Cultural, to the current president of Ómnium Cultural, Mr Mauri, then to a CDR, and then, to finish the thing of dressing everything, the equanimous and faithful of the balance, appears Pilar Rahola and makes the analysis of everything above? Do you really believe that this represents the reality of Catalonia? Do you really believe that it represents the reality of Catalonia that we have a presenter of a program – a presenter, not an eventual collaborator who can be attributed a great distance with TV3, but a regular TV3 presenter – who retuits to burning Spanish flags on networks? Do you really think that represents the plurality of Catalan society? I tell you one thing: I, honestly, the other day, as a citizen of Catalonia and as the spokesperson for the media control committee of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, I felt on my couch, I sat and I felt on my couch..., I really experienced a feeling – and I tell you with absolute sincerity – Kafkiana, I thought« this is Kafkian. As a citizen of Catalonia, have to be watching a program in which you interview everything I have told you, that only the rigorous interview to some ETA ex-terrorist was lacking to defame Spain for... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.209.0	Congressman, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.210.0	It's just, let's see, when you try to be respectful, do Mr. Bonell the favor... [[Pause.]] What does this gesture mean? Come on, I think... we're going through... I think whatever we say, it's going to happen to you. We pass, in fact, speaking castle, as Mrs. Vilallonga says, I don't have to pass... [[Greetings.]] It's just... really. Let's see, everyone can say whatever they want while saying it with respect. And what I'm telling you, honestly, is that you come to me here, counselor, to say that that is the normality of Catalonia... I insist, TV3 presenters who retweet fires of Spanish flags, TV3 presenters who systematically insult the rest of Spaniards, programs in which they interview unique and simply leaders of the separatist movement... And you call that to reflect Catalonia's plurality? I think that's certainly not serious. I do not think it is the television we can aspire to from the citizens of Catalonia. And I tell you one thing, Mr. Puignero said a few minutes ago that we were heading for an election period, he said that this legislature is exhausted. And I say to you: in an election period, I am very worried that we will have, every week, the teleshopping of Pilar Rahola selling us their electoral product, that of Junts per Catalunya, that of Mr Pujol. Well, I don't know exactly, now I have a little bit of a disconcerting who will go on each list, but, in any case, it seems to me that that's not the way to make an even-handed television, a television that really represents the plurality of the citizens of Catalonia. I sincerely tell you that the citizens of Catalonia who watch TV3 really feel... to those who are not absolutely nationalist and absolutely Hispanic, it is offensive to them. I'm really telling you. And the data you've given, Mrs. Counsellor, I'm sorry, but you've told me practically 95_per_cent of citizens of Catalonia, one thing to the Bulgarians, who see TV3. No, listen, voters of constitutionalist parties like us Citizens, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and also voters of the commons say in each of the polls that they almost don't see TV3. TV3 is currently only seen by the voters of the separatist parties. And I tell you more, there will be very reasonable ones, but others really to swallow know all that is the propaganda and agitation that TV3 makes against Spain, to me seems very difficult to accept. And, therefore, to present it, that, as a model of equanimity seems to me more than questionable, counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.212.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, I..., allow you to continue, you continue with your speech, I will follow with my plurality, impartiality and independence, because, in fact, these are the characteristic traits of corporate communication media, and I will not tire of repeating it there. And I won't get tired of repeating it because it's true. It's true, and that's it. Although I am aware that this is biting cold iron, and that the more you say it will continue with your speech because, in fact, one of the obsessions of your political party is to eliminate Catalan public communication media. In fact, you are born to eliminate everything that you help the català to consolidate and generate social cohesion for our society, as is the model of linguistic immersion, which also contemplates communication media. But thank you, too, and here you go to demand therefore that the media must be not know what, that they must guarantee the rights of everyone, that they must collect plurality. I tell you, listen to one thing: TV3 contents are independent. The Government of Catalonia does not generate the contents of the public communication media of Catalonia. This may not be used to in other places, but here in Catalonia, that's it. The fact that from their political party these demands that they have with the Catalan public media do not have it, for example, with the Spanish public media. And I could give you an example: in his intervention, and now I think he's hinted at it again on this second turn, he talks about the treatment he's done TV3, for example, in the figure of President Pujol. So, look, I've never heard of Spanish public television, I've never heard of a criticism of your group for not treating the corruption information of the Spanish royal family, and in concrete terms of the Emeritus King. I've never heard of that. In fact, I don't feel any criticism of respect. Clearly, even if they are not in favour of a committee of inquiry in Congress, they may also be interested in news about the corruption of the royal family, which has long appeared in all international media, whether public or private, they may also be interested in explaining themselves in Spanish communication media. And, in the same way, we also know how hard and what it is that you don't see because of plurality, impartiality and independence of Spanish public media, because we've never heard them raise your voice in this sense. When in these last few days, for example, we have seen that those responsible for the territorial domes of Spanish Television accuse the information director of wanting to impose his criteria on the margins of professionalism, and they sympathize with the people who have resigned or ceased. We haven't seen him, either. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, I have not heard them denounce it or criticize it, that is. And if we follow with the examples of the Spanish State, a hardship to the conjunction of the communication media, which cannot be justified from the beginning, it is the help of the 15_million euros to deal with the consequences of the Covid, and which was allocated to those private television channels, Mediaset and Atresmedia, with the benefits of the millionaires this past year, in concrete terms of 211 and 118_millions, respectively. And while hundreds of middlemen, local middlemen and local middlemen, saw that, even though they were doing more work than ever before, they had to cut under, clocks, seedlings, or present ERTOS as the most viable solution in the short term. And in this case, too, it's too bad you don't see her. But do you know who raised his voice? So it was raised by President Puigdemont, who from exile and in his capacity as MEP, presented a written question to the European Commission regarding these 15_million euros that the State has donated to private televisions in the framework of exceptional measures to combat the coronavirus. And he also asked the Commission to investigate whether there is a violation of the competition between these large state and regional and local companies. And I finish, and I'm doing it with a recognizance of our public communication media, because they're plural and because they're impartial, and because they're essential to prevent the backsliding of rights, freedoms and democratic values. And if they are always in any democratic country, they are still more essential to the situation of repression than we are in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.213.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the Protocol of Civil Protection for the care of persons before heavy emergencies in Catalonia]] [[300-00277/12]] The next question is about the Civil Protection Protocol for the care of people before heavy emergencies in Catalonia. And the formula... [[José Rodríguez Fernández intervenes without using the microphone.]] Yes, say'm, deputy. Why... [[José Rodríguez Fernández intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, he wasn't in the hemicle. I understand that it refers to the inquiry that has taken place now. The questions are not contradicted or allusions, honourable Member. He said that the next item on the agenda is the Question to the Government on the Protocol of Civil Protection for the care of persons before heavy emergencies in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, she has the lady MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.214.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, on March 20, 2016 I worked at the International Relations Office of the University of Barcelona, at the Faculty of Geography and History, when they warned us that a bus in which Erasmus students were navigating had an accident at the height of Freginals, in Montsia. In this evil accident, thirteen women died – thirteen young women – and more than thirty people were badly injured. They were all different nationalities, among which there was Veronica, a Romanesque student of the Faculty of Geography and History that we had attended and knew for a week. I remember the following weeks, full of pain, helping to make the administrative procedures, collecting the personal objects of Veronica, comforting the companies and, finally, the family of victims. The August 2017, very close to the Faculty of Geography and History, a van, Rambla downstream, murdered fourteen people, and two more would end up dying in Diagonal and Cambrils, in one of the bloodiest terrorist attacks we have recently suffered in Catalonia. One of the first people I met when I was a member of Parliament and arrived at this Parliament was Javier, the father of little Xavi, only three years old, a fatal victim of the Rambla storm. These two stories do not want to be a referent nor are they different from the rest of the stories related to the differences and various emergencies that we have suffered and are patenting in our country, but they do pose a manifest that one of the most important things in the resolution of emergencies is and must be people. Only by placing the people at the centre of the policies that we are doing in this Parliament and that our Government is carrying out can we achieve the objective of politics, which is nothing other than social welfare and the better of the vital condition. In general, in Catalonia we have good plans for emergency. In the accident at Freginals, for example, the emergency service worked correctly, ambulances and emergency health personnel, the firefighters, acted with speed and professionalism, as they also did in the case of the Barcelona Rambla storm, where the health services were perfectly coordinated with the Urban Guard and the Mossos d'Esquadra deployed the Cronos anti-terrorist device, which allowed the identification and neutralization of terrorists. The collaborative work between the different administrations has been demonstrated and is demonstrated to each of the emergencies we have experienced, especially when it affects victims of different nationalities, made every time more frequent in a globalized world and in a plural society, different, like Catalan. Thus, the Government of Catalonia worked with the foreign consulates and the French authorities, the Government of Spain, in the accident planned by Germanwings in 2015, with one hundred and fifty victims of twenty different nationalities. And it's that the world changes and the needs of emergencies naturally also do, and it can adapt the plans and protocols of action to these new needs or simply improve those responses that have been rated as better. The Catalan Directorate-General for Civil Protection in charge of managing emergencies in Catalonia has, as we have said, action plans that work, but they are very oriented towards solving the classic risks linked to meteorological phenomena, such as snow, plugs, sales, riuedas, over which we have no control and for which the management has to focus on minimizing risks, solving the impact of the emergency and protecting people at the immediate moment of the emergency. As we have already seen, and above all, as we are still seeing from the emergence generated by the Covid-19 pandemic, the type of emergencies that we are currently facing do not only have to deal with current natural phenomena and require a different approach that places the person, the victim, the affected person, at the centre, and that ensures that their protection is not only regarding physical rescue, when the emergence occurs, but also in the subsequent psychological, social, educational or economic treatment. It is for this reason that we present this inquiry today so that you, counselor, explain to us what are the strategies that have been devised by the department to deal with these new emergencies. Emergencies can't help it. They are emerging and, therefore, as such, we cannot avoid them, but we can come up with a new global solution, above all that places the person in the center and that there is this support from the victim or the affected person. We believe that this protocol for the care of people before the difficult emergencies in Catalonia is created in order to guarantee a comprehensive and continuous response to the affected. A concept, that concept, that of 'affected', certainly, much wider, which includes much more people than the concept of 'victim', and which we believe is a certainty on the part of the department. This new protocol will have to ensure response to the new Emergencies situations, with multiple victims or multiple affected and multiple administrations involved. For example, how could the response to an emergency similar to the accident of Freginals be improved, with multiple victims? What would be the paper, for example, from this new protocol, from the assemblies, the local governments, which is often found at the first line of the emergence, but which sometimes can suffer from a lack of resources or well-defined action or action protocols? What resources will be made available to municipalities, especially small municipalities, in order to follow up and accompany these people? Putting the person at the center of the response and resolution of the emergence, we walk towards the construction of a socially fairer republic, which guarantees the well-being of the person. And this can be done by accompanying the victim or affected in an emergency on an ongoing basis, from the first moment of the emergency, but by following up on health, social or economic matters. As we see in this crisis of the Covid-19, emergencies are not just sanitary. This emergence that initially was health care has resulted in social, labour or economic emergencies, and therefore must be analysed from the cross-cutting, and the answer must guarantee equity and individual and collective resilience. What is the strategy that the protocol provides to ensure that any person who has been affected by an emergency situation is not only at the time of this emergence, of this impact, but can return..., who can accompany...? How do you foresee this protocol that can accompany this victim or victim until he can return to normality? We believe that the creation of this protocol of care for people before hard emergencies is sure to be a good tool, a good tool for updating responses to emergency situations, but above all to put people back in the centre, in the centre of all politics, because, in the end and in the end, we are a political woman to improve people's lives. Catalonia needs this protocol, but above all it needs its implementation in order to be able to improve the attention to victims and those affected, to learn from the deaths of Veronica and Xavi and the rest of victims, and to improve the attention and follow-up of Javier, the health workers working on the emergencies or the thousands of people affected in these traumatic processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.215.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Miquel Buch, has the word "Interior Counselor". Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.216.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good time. Member of the Commission. - Thank you for asking this question. When we talk about emergencies we can pose ourselves in the theoretical plane, that in the theoretical plane there are four phases of management of an emergence, which are: the preparation, the plans that are made for when there is an emergence; the mitigation, which also forms part of this initial phase; the response to this emergence, and the management of the recovery of this emergence. If we put ourselves in the operating plan, from these four phases we move to three, which are: impact, crisis management and recovery. Therefore, we can say this in the theoretical or operational form. But there is a phase that is obviously contemplated, which is recovery. And here we focus on this plaza that we've pulled forward. On June 2018, when I was lucky and honored to be able to build a team in front of the Interior Department, the first one we did was to analyze what the situation was. You're obvious, aren't you? Arrive, find, analyze what the situation is, and from here, therefore, seek in order to improve this management that you have been honored as the person responsible for this management. And it's obvious that we've had a lot of shortcomings, and the fruits of many years of not having made the investments in the Interior Department, in the emergencies and in the security of this country, so we need to work. It was necessary to work to have a more robust system of emergencies, security, and at the length of these few twenty-four months they could see how we have made the most investment in fire stations, in police stations in Mossos, we have made the investment in tools, vehicles, all necessary tools for the Generality's operative bodies. We've increased the number of effects. Therefore, we went to face this, let's say, lack that for a few years the Interior Department, the public security system and the emergences of this country had held. And the goal was to make it more robust, more powerful, much more capable, responsive. Obviously, when someone thinks about the emergence, as I said before the phases, so think about it, the fire, the people turning it off, right? , in the police separating the citizenry that does not attach to the perill, etc. But now, within the emergence system, we must also think in the recovery phase, in the post-mergence, that we do not consider it a post-mergence; it is a way to explain it, I understand that the emergence is when there is fire, when there is the accident, when there is the rescue... But the emergence is still alive. Why? So, because there are people who have been affected by that emergence. There are people who have suffered that emergence. There are people who, perhaps at the end of a few months, at the end of a few years, can have a fruit bud from that emergence: a psychological bud, they can suffer the next few weeks after the emergence some psychosocial deficiencies, they need a follow-up, and what they can't do is find an administration opposite; they have to find an administration at the side. You have to accompany them, these people affected, who are not victims, people affected. Therefore, we can have plans, we can put out the fires very well, we can rescue very well the citizenry, to whom you need, that if later we do not give the attention that we must give to the people affected by an emergence, the public system of emergencies of this country is not good enough. It will be good, it will be the best system when you make a planning, it will be able to respond to an emergence and can accompany the people affected in the post-mergence, after having suffered that emergence. Therefore, the optics must be integral and permanent. You talked Germanwings... no, you talked about Freginals, you talked about August 17... we can talk about Germanwings, we can talk about Gloria, huh? We can talk about all the threats, temporal inclemencies, emergencies we've been through, but it's very cold, that. Why, of course, when we talk about Germanwings, when we talk about August 17, we can fall into the mistake of doing it in a cold way, to say: so many victims, such a day, right? And that's it, and we've already taken over and integrated. But we need to know that after this cold number of so many victims there are so many family members who have suffered, there are so many friends who have suffered, there are so many times who have suffered, there are so many people who have suffered and who may not have had the support and are part of that emergence. And that means that the Emergence System, Civil Protection of the Government of Catalonia, didn't give them this escort? No, he gave them a follow-up, there were no suns left. They've helped these people. But now we're giving them a lot more strength. With this protocol we give them much more importance, in this post-merger management. That's why you give the principle, as I said, of this legislature, to the August of..., at least for us, not for the Parliament of Catalonia, but for the Government; in August of 18 we detected a series of shortcomings and put ourselves to work in the management of this post-merger. Surely at my step as mayor for two years and president of the ACM, there was also some affectation, because at the Mar Prize we also experienced an emergence; an important emergence, which affected people, and the management of that emergence also taught me to work with this vision, after extinguishing the fire, after rescuing someone, after solving some concrete problem. That's why I'm on my way home if any of you ever see it, so I've been writing people in the center since the first day. People are always at the center, of all policies, of emergencies as well. And the social visit the Interior Department has, this mandate, I can assure you it's important, very important. Therefore, we have been able to do this protocol, to draft this protocol and to approve this protocol, with three great objectives, which is to define the strategy, a cross-cutting strategy of attention to people for any difficult emergence that places quality in this attention as the highest priority. Fix: the quality, not the quantity at the time of teaching people, people. Second big goal: to have a system of prescriptive procedures in the planning of Civil Protection, focused, another time more, in the quality of the attention of the population in all scenes, times and processes of the emergence, always, from the minute zero or from the minute least u, because when you plan and plan for the emergence, you are in the minute least u, until the last minute of the game, always have the quality to the capdavant and the people also. The third major objective is to ensure that people are treated fairly in emergencies, and here the honourable Member has referred to it. We are talking about quality, standards of care, coordination to minimize bureaucracy, to facilitate post-mergence in the citizenry, continuity in the time of care and associated resources. A crisis or an outbreak and can come out, after having suffered an emergence, and can come out the following week, and can come out at the end of the months or at the end of the longer. Therefore, we must always be attentive and loving to those people who may experience a bud from an emergence at the end of a time. We're also talking about training; for us it's important to have the staff in order to know how to manage these people who have experienced this emergence. When the municipal deputy speaks, then we need to talk about fairness. Because in an accident, in an emergency where there are multiple victims, they are probably people who see different municipalities. Therefore, these joints have social services to accompany those people who may be different. The small assemblies, which the honourable Member referred to, obviously have a much lower capacity and potential than the large municipalities, at the time of accompanying. And that can't be. Because we can find that, in an emergence that has suffered various victims of various municipalities, if you are lucky enough to live in a large city with a capacity of social services and social assistance to these people, therefore, have some quality services, and if you live in a small municipality the Assembly cannot offer these services. So we're talking about how we could manage the post-merger in which there would be first-class citizens and second-class citizens. So, as this can't be, let's set some standards for everyone. But we also talk about integrity in all phases, focusing people in the center. We're also talking about resilience, we're talking about recovery, we're talking about creating a unit specific to Civil Protection for people. We've signed a deal with the Social Work College. So, what are we gonna do? One more step to focus on people who are emmigrants of emergencies. What do we do? So, looking for an administration at the side of people who hurt emergencies, not in front of them, like I used to. And at the inquiry earlier I told them that, before any path, for very short or for a very long time, a first step must always be taken. If you don't take a first step, don't get to the head of the path. It's been a few years... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It's over, President. A few years ago he took the first step because Civil Protection already cared for people, and kept them in the center. With this protocol we don't take a minor step. We are taking a big step, very important, to continue managing a public emergence service and a public emergence system in this powerful, robust country, but once again focusing people at the center of any emergence. Therefore, thanks to all those who have made it possible; thanks, Member, for the inquiry and from here to dispose of the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.217.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on transparency, democratic control tools and the anti-corruption compromise]] [[300-00280/12]] The next question is about transparency, democratic control tools and the compromise against corruption, and the presentation, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.218.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies who are still here among us. I grew up with my daughter because we both worked the seven days of the week, and, of course, the more readings of little age, therefore, Mortadelo and Philemon, of the great Francisco Ibáñez, who now that we are dealing with slave states we should dedicate a monument to Francisco Ibáñez, as the master work..., all that he has done. And, logically, another thing that I did was hello, right? That's what she's got, so grow up with a bird. And, of course, with the Hello..., picture quite well what is the situation of a country or a state, in this multi-national case, even though some only see a nation. So, I was born and raised with Hello, but in the same way a lot of people from Spanish society, a lot of people. And hello, so, of course, that reflects, so, a way of doing, an acrylic journalism, that even the little serious media have made it follow; acrylic media with a corrupt monarchy. Because, of course, when he was talking about the monarchy..., so, here we have a special, so, that he visited Cuenca – certainly, a great city, magnificent, heritage of humanity; taking advantage to recommend it, the Enchanted City, and also other places in Cuenca, like the birth of the Raven River. And of course, they make here a series of very nice statements, which I think is... today we talk about salvation, today, for example, we say: "In his passage through Benidorm the king asked for a healthy peat ice cream, because at home we don't drink sugar," said the queen. I think we need to follow these monarchy councils, because then we'll have a much healthier life. Thank you, hi and all the journalism, to make it possible. Because he believes the Bourbon that everyone is of his condition. And no, neither those of us who are here, nor any of the citizens of the Spanish State, are inviolable, we have no impunity, nor do we have a vital income for the fact that we are born in an exclusive family, nor do we have 65_million euros to give to our friend or to our partner. And of course, when you're giving away a rose or a book, then you're fatal. [[Rialles.]] Thank you, Juanca, thank you. And, of course, I'm planning the new Corinn pair, because, of course, if I don't give it 66_millions, I'm sure it leaves it; so, if I don't give it to it at least 65,1 won't be possible. And, of course, the Corinn here has a paper, like a lot of other people in the history of the Spanish monarchy, in which we could talk about the Game of Thrones, with the famous iron throne – I don't know if they've seen the series – so here's where the Game of Thrones and the famous iron throne are, we're talking about the throne of headlights, because we're talking about drawings and drawings of people who are involved and who haven't profited during all these decades, in favor – in favor – of their butxaca and, logically, in favour of this monarchy, in an acrylic way. Because this monarch, the present and the former and all folded, goes from a long dynasty that fine, goes, like all monarchies, that are corrupt, directly. This morning a company of mine, Raquel Sans, was talking about DNA – it was referring to an institution, logically speaking metaphorically – but in this case we could talk about a DNA that was linked to any monarchy of the world, and that included the Bourbons. And of course, Article 56.3 of the Spanish Constitution speaks of the monarch's inviolability. And of course, if you read the document, it looks like I'm talking about a being of light, huh? – I don't know if they sound like that language – a superior race. Clearly, he gives me an impression of constitutional monarchic supremacyism, people who think he's over good and evil and no one will touch him. I, actually, get used to being like this. But this is the practical definition of the 78 rule, or hello rule, with this or any other means. They have come to us all this time that this was an immaculate institution, without any criticism, the same media that later, logically, they would say, therefore, that here in Catalonia there was terrorism, and that Remedios Amaya, year 83, won Eurovision car and then did not get any points – Spain, zero points. So, in this case the monarchy, zero points in transparency, in democracy and in netness. Because here, when people are later going with the Bribón sail – I don't know if they remember, the famous Bribón sail, by the way, with the sponsors of the "caixa", now, now, now, CaixaBank – so of course, these people are going with a "pole, with the Spanish flag, now with masks with the Spanish flag, but of course, they go with patriots, but also to say it – and I don't want to be a patriot, because being a patriot is simply paying taxes, not even at all, nor at all, not at all, not at all. Because that's to be patriotic: to do what's right as a city, not to sell 'without putting on masks or things with the flag, because no flag can cover corruption, neither here nor anyone's, because there are no corrupts of ours and some corrupts of the others, the corrupts are none's, the corrupts are only from them, from themselves and from their buttocks, and these are the people who are not patriots, they are people who really don't deserve any respect, and the only one they deserve is the Penal Code with all their strength. And of course, if a state has as its highest authority a corrupt like the state's head, a state that acts acristically, as this pressure that does nothing to tax, to follow up on what it does and what it stops doing, then of course, it says a lot about the democratic situation and transparency of this state. And of course, then, when we were talking about DNA metaphorically, if the head of the State is corrupt, so I don't know if the DNA of the State is corrupt or not, but it's close enough. Here we go, that's it. Because Mr. Juan Carlos Alfonso Víctor María de Borbón y Borbón Dos Sicilias – and I'm sorry if I've had to serve the concept of lord, because I don't deserve it–, of course, 2003 was 39_millions_of_liures as paid, as in support, for the sale of Barclays; 2008, 65_millions of euros– that are these famous, that we have stated, that they ended up at the hands of his friend–; 2010, 120_millions of euros that, like the 65 previous ones, came from Saudi Arabia; 2011 was 95,78_millions of euros; 2010, 1,7_millions of Bahrain, because, logically, we don't have to put everything into the same cyst, we have to diversify the investments. And of course, it's a thing that goes a long way, and of course, the New York Times, since 2012 said that the Spanish monarch had an opaque fortune of more than 2,100_million_dollars, because, of course, he was wearing many years of age, he's a man of age. It may be recalled that in '77 the Persian branch gave him 10 million dollars, and what was at that time the King Fahd of Arabia did not give him more than 100, without having to make them, logically. And, of course, now we're gonna talk like before, right? So when his father died, he inherited 872 million pesetas – if they have the calculator on their hands if they can pass it in euros. And it is logical that after this, then, that Cultural Heritage is to file a complaint – since we are talking about languages, so I will speak in my paternal language, which is the castle – so that it presents a complaint asking that it is Juan Carlos for the offence of passive cohecho, trafficking in influence, prohibited negotiations with officials, crime against public finances and money laundering. Clearly, with all this experience, I don't know if they know that on July 17th here is the first summit against corruption in Parliament, a first city summit that this house acull, with the participation of institutions, of entities, and I think it would be very good for the monarch to come and explain it to him in the first person, because who can't explain corruption better than a corrupt; that comes, is invited. And logically, we could also invite, why not? , the current monarch. I take this opportunity to remind you that the current monarch, when he was married, a Catalan businessman – so, when he said that the issue of corruption does not go with flags – paid him the turn of the world when he was married. Congratulations. What, they've all paid the world back, haven't they? When did you get married? As they gave you a picture of Lladró who's probably already at the post office, or something else. So, no, they gave him the world's turn, a businessman. Ah, and I take advantage to say, the advent, which, of course, in the same way a businessman, therefore, paid to what was the head of Ciudadanos, the Albert Rivera, an apartment in Madrid many years, curiously giving after lessons of democratic purity. There are no favors of friends with power, which are corrupt interests; we have it present. Because 65_million euros corrupt– I remember: 65_million euros corrupt–, and if we add up to the wide list, they affect much more the image of the Spanish brand, the Spanish state and the Spanish democracy than not 65_million delegations to the outside or the famous embassies, that so much good were already an embassy and that we could exercise the republic. It's worse than that, this image of corruption, not people in a few cities than they do is to serve the interests of the citizenry. And, of course, we're talking about some delegations that only cost – cost, like anything else that's in the generality's assumptions – 7.5_million euros, huh? 65, or if you want the 2,100_millions, which I understand when the New York Times published it in 2012..., from 2012 to 2020 if you're only interested in peace of mind must be 2,500_millions. So, of course, with 2,500_millions, when it comes to all these things about the process and all these things... how many things would we do with 2,500_millions? How many hospitals? How many schools would we make with all that money? And this money, not just in Catalonia, but logically for all the citizens of the Spanish State, and more so in the emergency situation now because of the Covid-19 and logically because of the previous crisis. 2,500_million. They make numbers. If the king wants crown, we will give it crown; we will mount a referendum and vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.219.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the counselor, Mr. Bernat Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.220.0	Well, thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs. Deputy Civic, in the first place, therefore, to thank him for the opportunity to illustrate us in this royal story and in this late saying after a complicated ple. But that doesn't have to hide that corruption went much further than the case or episode you explained. Corruption has gone a long way. In this Parliament, this same inquiry that was presented today could have been presented on many other occasions, because corruption was linked not only to the Royal House, but to political parties, to State institutions and – as you have said – to the monarchy. A corruption that has been engulfed in fraud, espionage and other irregularities, and that has not only passed to the Spanish State, but has crossed borders. As you know, the case you explained today is in the hands of Swiss justice. And, in fact, today we know President Sánchez's opinion when he described this information as "disquieting." I wouldn't want to think that this concern is based on communication media like what you carried today in this Faristol. Certainly, a case with these shadows could investigate it, but it had to be the justice of another country that had placed it on the table. So, what has Spanish justice done until today? What has the Congress of Deputies done until today? When it had the opportunity, on various occasions, to set up a commission of inquiry into the monarchy, it became apparent. And, therefore, we remember who were those political formations that made it possible that today at the Congress of Deputies there was no commission to investigate the corruption of the monarchy. Therefore, before these facts, which are repeated continuously; before these facts, which continue to engulf situations like these, hiding them from public debate and justice, where is democracy? Where's transparency? , where are the values of those parties that when they draft their election program pose the fight against corruption in the face of everything, but when they are in government they don't forget? You have also told us about the international image of Spain, how the Government of the Spanish State is obsessed because the Government of the Generality, in its external action, can come to harm the external image of Spain. Well, with the scandals that you explained today, with the scandals that the Congress of Deputies did not approve of this commission has hidden, the doubt that I am left is what really is the evil that is produced in the image of Spain? Are the actions of the Catalan government internationalizing all the work it does, through external action? or are these irregularities carried to the international press? Does the Catalan Government do this when it defends the image of Spain or does the Spanish State do it when it presents us with these brutal actions through the police, when the people of our country demand to exercise their right to vote through a ballot box? Therefore, to these parliamentary groups that at the time prevented the creation of these commissions, I remind them that when I put on the table the debate on the fact of mismatch the image of Spain that I remember, that I revisit the international hemeroteca and they will find enough cases to illustrate this situation and, therefore, that the image of Spain has remained illegible for many other reasons. I've often tried to put myself on the skin of this country's citizenry. I think today the citizenry of this country would say that there are guys, corruption. The citizenry of this country would say that there are no types of corruption that have become systemic, that the indifference of the high powers of the State and some political formations – why not say so? – has converted corruption into a normalized and systemic lifestyle mode. And, therefore, we are very clear about this, we are very clear about this, because the story goes down and we are public servants and, as such, we are here to represent the interests of the citizenry and to defend integrity in institutions and, in any case, never to take advantage of it. And if someone doesn't make it clear, there's the door. From the Department of External Action, concretely from the Transparency Unit, we are very clear that the fight against corruption is one of our main commitments. Actually, it's a foundational pillar of the Government of the Generality. In fact, it is also the principle of reference in all spheres of action of the Catalan public administrations, because we understand transparency as a will, as an essential value to strengthen the democratic system, as the best tool to improve the quality of the relationship with citizenship and as the best way to promote trust in public institutions. And we do it out of conviction, just out of conviction, because we believe it, and because we work day after day to accomplish it, because we don't throw it away and we don't need to defend ourselves - and that's exactly the essence of the best Republican tradition. As you know, the Government of the Generality has approved a strategy for the fight against corruption and the strengthening of public integrity, an agreement that was produced by the 15th generation in the same Government of the Generality. A strategy that you foresee twenty-and-five actions; I will not call them now, because it would be very long, but to give some examples: a new system of protection of alerting people of new cases of corruption, with allegations of 100_per_cent anonymous. And this was possible thanks to the collaboration and advice of the activist group Ciutadà Xnet, which has assisted us on a voluntary basis. For another band, so it has also established an agreement with the Barcelona and Xnet Assembly, which will allow us to provide this anonymous electronic compass with alerts. Another measure that forms part of this strategy: the collaboration between the Tax Agency and the Squadron Mosses Cos, precisely, therefore to strengthen this fight against corruption and not only that, but a specific formation for the Squadron Mosses Cos so that they can be the most agile possible before a situation of corruption. Because we want Catalonia to be a referent in democratic quality and good governance. Let's explain, let's explain why we want to stand up as transparency references, because this is the model of the republic we want. You are referring to this: on July 17th, here, this Parliament will be joining the anti-corruption summit, a summit that will allow us to assess and follow the agreed measures in the Social Pact against Corruption, which will allow us to draw up a work plan for the materialization of the most urgent measures, which will allow us – important – to establish a timetable and a priority for the measures that have been planned and above all to create an executive commission to deploy the work plan. Finally, Congressman. As you know, the government, and as I have said, and as I have demonstrated with some of the actions we have planned, the government is working to show that another model is possible, which they have explained to us for so many years, that this was normal for public administrations, it does not exist. Corruption has to end, it has to end once and for all, because we want a country based on transparent public management, democratic public management, but above all on a useful and citizen-friendly public management. Do you remember when I told you I was trying to pose for the citizens? So the citizens have to perceive the governments, they have to perceive the institutions as examples of transparency, as examples of good governance. And, therefore, we from the Government of the Generality, concretely from the Department of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency want to build a society where civil, political and social rights are at the center, at the center of all policies, where the same citizens follow the transformative force to achieve a more just and cohesive society. They are the same citizens who have to carry out this control task and this political action follow-up task. And that's why we're still working because this model is coming into the world. We will explain it to the world and why we are still known, because Catalonia is known and recognized for its transparency, for its institutional integrity and for democratic values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-09-5703.221.0	Thank you, Members. After this inquiry, there are no more points in the order of the day. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning to the gods of the morning. Thank you.
