ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies and deputies. Let's resume the session. In the first place, and before following the order of the day, the wish would be to propose an alteration of the smell of the day, according to the request made for the government. The proposals that, according to what is laid down in Article 83.3 of the Rules, it is possible to alter the order of the day passing the inquiry provided for in point 13, concerning the inquiry to the Government on the digital administration, at the first point of the order of the day to deal with today, and, therefore, at the place of the inquiry referring to point 10 of the order of the day, is to say, the inquiry to the Government on the situation of detention centres for foreigners, eh? [[Pause.]] So, if it looks good and it can be approved by consent, I understand, we'll change point 13 to point 10, and we'll start just by 13. To announce also that, in the accounts of, as predicted, that answered this question the councillor Jordi Puigneró, would do so the councillor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Okay? [[Pause.]] [[Asking the Government about Digital Administration]] [[300-00237/12]] All right. So let's move to this point, to the government's inquiry into digital administration. Formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the question was asked by Mrs Gloria Freixa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning to the mornings I'm here. I can't really criticize, 'cause I'm a little late, too, huh? , in the morning..., well; first of all, to clarify that if this question is well dealt with, as they see in their title, of digital administration and therefore, it was addressed to the Counsellor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, with the motivation of the cancellation of the Mobile, that it is the most important congress of mobiles that we have in Catalonia at world level, so it cannot be here, until all the unexpected that this difficult news supposes. So today, Councillor Calvet will be so kind as to make us a Digital Policy and Public Administration Councillor in office. Well, as I said, this inquiry was addressed to the Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, in order to be able to listen, from the government, to the bet on a new digital administration, which must lead us to nine ways of working, to nine ways of relating to the city. What's the point? The objective is to achieve a different service delivery model; based on a city/administration relationship, more similar, easy, understandable, proactive and customised. As the name of the Digital Policy and Public Administration Board says, this is the board that deals with the issue. And I want to put special emphasis on this point, because during the Councillor's appearance to expose the Generality's assumptions in the matter of public administration and digital policies, some group of this chamber took advantage of the opportunity to find the holder that the Councillor devotes more time to digital policies than to the Public Administration. And today, here, I'd like to say two things. The first, which I think should be made clear to us that one thing did not go without the other. That the public service and the relations between administrations and administrations with the city, if not all two of them from the hand, has not heard much, today. And the second, that this time, as the deputies are already prepared and we already know each other a lot, it was timed how much the counselor intervened, talking about digital policies and how much he intervened talking about public office. And the result was that it was exactly the same time devoted to one thing as the other. So, I'd like to make this a little bit clear, because we always fall into easy headlines. But let's go back to the thread: what's our miracle? Our Mirall may be England, may be Estonia, may be the United Nations, even though some no longer like to talk about the United Nations. But we will go to Estonia; to Estonia, the year 1991, Estonia proclaims its independence and, at that time, looks for a way out and focuses on technology, on the Internet. This makes Estonia situated in the Baltic country in the first position in terms of different subjects: in digital health, enterprise, facilitated to the enterprise, freedom to the network. An example country for all those who start their digitalization processes. And as we say at first, they didn't consider technology to be a thread, but rather a way to improve the life of the people. It's been years since they've had any official documents in the near future. But it is not a matter, only not to make the paper work, but also to organize the bureaucracy in another way; with transparency and make it easier. Do you know that there are already 99 percent of the services that can be done online in Estonia today? Now there are only three ways to go in person: to get married, to get divorced or to buy immobile goods. So it's not here, it's not where Catalonia wants to go. It is working decisively, because public administrations can manage public services, so that they respond to the needs of a digitally empowered citizenry. Technology to put people in the center; the person is the center, from which decisions must be made. Artificial intelligence, always thought of being human. And what does that mean, this real integration of technologies? So not just put machines and interfaces at the disposal of the citizens, but it means equipping the environment with tools that can make this technology really useful. The city – I speak both of the natural person and of the legal person – that which is related to the Administration, must find before an intuitive system, that when this is configured, you are already thinking of the needs that the city has. That if you want to ask for a scholarship, you quickly find out which are the ways to get to the end of this way you want to do. So you have to find a friendly administration, an administration that helps, an administration that you can trust. It is very basic that this administration is reliable. It can't be that the citizen donates the data to Google, without thinking 'often, and in change, when he has to donate the DNI to the Administration to make a deal, however small he is, there are reticences and it seems as we have entered the unknown dimension. Therefore, in order to generate this confidence, what should the Administration do and what is it that they are doing? Act with total transparency. The city has to hear what the Administration is doing, it has to hear what data, the Administration, from him. And you have to be able to ask them at any time. This relationship of extreme trust between the two must be generated. And we adapt. We adapt, why are the cities today, what are they doing? They relate between them, all of them, whatever age they are, by technological means. We are no longer talking about the millennial generation, which already does everything through technology. Therefore, I would not have felt that it was the only Administration with which the city could not relate in a way, also digital. So, first we have the front office, which is where the city is when you access the Administration, which, as we say, has to be quick, has to be intuitive and has to generate confidence, with secure identification mechanisms and back office. It is to say, that once that information enters, on the part of the city to the Administration, we do not find that, at once, it is printed in paper, that we must go to record it, that we return it to the Administration and the Administration makes us a digital resolution. You don't feel it. We need to think about it all in digital. And that's why, for this process, it's essential to think about effectiveness. The job's only been a while. When we've already facilitated a given to the Administration, we can't ask for it again. Well, why do we have to go to bed, if we can do it all from home? In Estonia, for example, the citizens make the rent in three minutes. In the matter of hours they start a company. And when there's no child, the same hospital is already registering for this child, and more so, it's already filing for parenthood and fatherhood. It's a way to relieve yourself that, when you're in the hospital and those current companies come to ask you, at that moment that you're so excited, that you pay, that you're going to register currents for the child. Or that the husband went to record the name of the child quickly and passed like me, that as there was a technical empath in my son's name, he won when he went to register my son and is said to be different from what was predicted at my home. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, do you know when we figured they'd get away with this new automated bureaucracy? Thousand-four-hundred-seven years of work annually. And Catalonia, we're already there! The catalogue of data and interoperable documents of Catalonia is the tool through which the public sector makes the citizens' right not to provide data and documents that are already in the hands of the Public Administration. And, to close the circle, so does the digital public employment. It is very important that we have the public worker fully aware and formatted to attend to these petitions; digital training, because they can face our challenges. In addition, this gives a certain degree of peace and security to the worker, because, already, the process, any wrong action, unlike when it was manual, can be traced. And more so, when there are any types of problems, it can give a solution. And why this is so, the objectives to advance in quality in the work, is to create – as already announced by the advisor in the appearance of the assumptions – the technical support office to the deployment of new forms of work to the Administration, to facilitate collaborative work, teletreball, cotreball, to the Generality. These new forms of work imply a change of mindset in the current model of work. According to different studies, Spain still has the perception that it is more productive to work for hours than not for purposes. That is why it is very important that this culture of responsibility, based on the results and the compliment of the objectives, be established. This will also assume other benefits, and it is that work will be more sustainable and work and family reconciliation easier. And finally, what are the benefits of the city, before this digital administration, so, roughly and with headlines? Access twenty-four hours; simplification of procedures; speed and agility in obtaining the service that is required; be safe in the physical displacement to the Administration; and increase of satisfaction. In short, we are working for a cultural change of the Administration. It's about, not just a use of technology, but a revolution for and for people. Finally, counselor, I understand that as the administration we have to be the example that follows the rest of society and so, that this government makes a bet to be captivating, as the administration of the 21st century: open, digital and efficient. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.4.0	President, councillor, deputies, deputies... deputy, many thanks for your reflections. He has captivated his intervention, as it could not otherwise be, for the circumstances in which we have to answer it. I'm doing it on behalf of Counselor Puignero, he's busy today, so he's busy with everything that means this hard news of Mobile cancellation. All the way, like the government, I get the idea we're quoting for the 21st, huh? And, therefore, this continuity of Mobile at our home, as a technology defender, from Catalonia all over the world. And we are actually talking about digitization. And he's done a lot of deep reflection, which I appreciate. Often, to me, as a territorial and sustainability advisor, I have to talk about digitization in the center of, for example, climate action, the internet of things is basic to be able to monitor and do climate action. But obviously we also need to talk about what digitization means in the public service, in the Administration, huh? Administration of the public service passed through the prism of the backs of digitalization. Because, with the Director General, we talked about it a while ago, before we entered, to govern and manage the organizations, until now we had two great levers: the classics, the ones of the last century, if I may, that was the management of people and the management of economic resources, of the premise. But if we're talking about a 21st century administration, we need to talk about a third lever, too. From this lever that means technology, digitization. And I will also speak, quite recently – and I will refer to it in my intervention – of a fourth lever that is that of specific data management, which will allow us to advance and address many of the themes that you have put forward. It will be precisely this data management, which will allow us to offer proactive services as a reference: automated renewal or intelligent management of notebooks, scholarships or public transport titles, among other processes. We are working on a digital, data-based corporate processing system that will allow massive processing of processes, like Estonia. It is no coincidence that, in the case of the Government of the Generality, digital policies and public administration are two competitions that go hand in hand, because it is a clear bet, precisely for this, to move forward as administration to an open, digital and efficient administration. If we want to count on an administration of the 21st century, we must start by talking about its main activity, which is people. You're also in reference. In the first place, the citizens, the ones who get the service. The governments work for the city and with the citizens. That's very easy to say, it's practically a phrase, it's a more complex concept than it seems; working to work with. It is useful, it is, therefore, to hear that the Administration is only right to be if it is placed in the service and works alongside people. If you allow me a personal reference, with other responsibilities, when I was director of the Incasòl often the goddess, to my people: "We are here to serve the people and the economy of the country, not to close ourselves and serve ourselves, with this planning of the territory, but to serve and to offer territorial conditions to the service of the people, the families and the economy of the country. Therefore, every time we talk about people, not just public employees, who are very important – now I will also mention it – but putting in the first instance those who receive the service, the citizens. And, for another band – we say now –, our own workers and workers, public servants. This determined bet that we act as the government for the Digital Administration supposes to work at the different levels of public administrations to manage more and better public services that give answer– and this is the third pot– to the needs of a citizenry, each time more digitally empowered. It is to say that the digital transformation went much further than a technological change that affects, in a positive way, this affect, our way of functioning as public entities serving citizens. What is our digital administration and data governance model? To advance digital administration, from the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration, we have designed an integrated model in four broad areas: people, processes, data and technology. It's not just about, say, injecting technology, but putting it there, above all, putting it intel. Value added to the city thanks to the technology. And in order to achieve this, we have to make our workers and workers – the public servants – who are the soul of the Administration, who are also drivers of change and managers of this Administration of the future, who must be a pioneer, who must be proactive, who must use technology to provide quality services and who must, once again, insist, put people to the centre. When we think about how we imagine the Digital Public Administration, we also need to know how to put into practice – we need to know how to put into practice – the skills and skills that public personnel would define in the future, through different dimensions of transformation. There's gonna have to be a transformation. In this sense, we have identified – we have identified – the main skills and skills related to the concept of digital public employment of our Administration in order to be able to develop tools for self-assessment, detection of training needs and professional development to the new Administration. We're going to end up with a wide digital training platform, not just enhancing knowledge, but also digital skills, huh? , we are talking about topics of communication, negotiation, persuasion or creativity, among others. Adaptada... all this role adapted to our future. And we are also developing format content on topics related to the prevention of work risks, cybersecurity, data protection, project follow-up. All this is also related to this willingness to move forward with the Digital Administration and this ability of the digital public employment. This must also allow us to move forward with new forms of work in the Administration. There are already some pilot programs, but these new forms of work in the Administration have to assume to break with a model based on the presence in the place of work to move to a model centered on the work for projects. We're talking about teletreball, based on projects and objectives. And, logically, the assessment of these projects and of these objectives must be made with criteria of efficiency, quality and excellence, so that excellence can be rewarded more than presence. As well as the modern concept of public service provision. We will, therefore, make a bet for a model like teletreball. The Government of the Generality, the Public Administration of the Generality which, without prejudice to the performance of the public service, allows to advance in this orientation of work for results and offers, in short, also a greater flexibility hourly on a part of the working day to certain professional profiles. This will obviously affect certain professional profiles. Teletreball must involve enabling, for example, time control mechanisms to record the day, but it will also be necessary to guarantee the right to digital disconnection, the right to rest, the right to personal and family intimacy. All this goes into a new paradigm that we also need to age. It will also be expected to enable cotreball spaces. It is a derivative of teletreball, distributed throughout the territory, destined, precisely, to teletreball according to criteria of reservation and availability that is determined. Not unlike some companies that are introducing all these concepts of teletreball and cotreball into their own organization. We know many examples. Therefore, we will promote a collaborative work to convert the individual knowledge that professionals have into corporate knowledge of the entire Administration. We want to explain and share it as a strategy to develop and manage specialized knowledge so that we can detect elements of improvement and innovation in the organization, always thinking about the public service, in the city service. And a great achievement. A great achievement of everything that now gives them that it is, say, non-theoretical, but it does arise at the level of being able to develop precisely in concrete projects. The Generality's Administrative District Project. This great project to the area of Fira 2000, riding between the two stations of line 10 that we have inaugurated in this legislature: Foc and Phoneria. I'm sure I've talked about physical location, but logically, this administrative district has a great digital connectivity and, in this administrative district, we want to move forward on all these issues I'm giving you right now. We want to make it a great opportunity. It will allow us to begin to visualize and make possible the introduction of these new ways of working. It is not, therefore, a new administration of the Generality, but we want it to be a paradigm shift, an opportunity for us to put the administration of the 21st century in practice. Certainly, we also want to minimize the use of paper. This also connects to issues of circularity and resources that can deal with other councils, such as Territorial and Sustainability. But, in this new district, we need to find the opportunity to put all this into practice: we are sharing, working together, working as a team, working as a network. In short, to stimulate collective intelligence in the service of citizens. We want a new digital administration for a digital country and a digitally empowered citizenry. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. [[Asking the Government about the monumental heritage]] [[300-00236/12]] The next question is about the monumental heritage, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Ms Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.6.0	Thank you. President, councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies, very good day. Honourable Counselor, these days we are talking about assumptions and assumptions about culture and everything that this sector needs. A sector that is one of the foundational pillars of the welfare state and a powerful tool of transformation and social cohesion. We are not convinced that only by promoting culture will we achieve a cultured citizenry with critical, civic, respectful and solidary spirit. This is why it is so important that culture has the right funding to design programs and lines that it considers necessary to achieve these objectives. Last week, in this room, I answer an inquiry, you will advise, to explain why we don't have the funding that would suit us, he explained that, with the assumptions that are being processed, it is better a xic until we have a real boost respect the 2017 assumption of 50..., 54_millions. We'd be much warmer, of course. We come from here, but the most important thing is that from his words it can be underlined that they will begin to establish the bases of a paradigm shift in public policies of culture. We need this paradigm shift, counsel, a change that is propitious to really and for culture to vertebrate society, to make it more cultured and, therefore, freer. This small improvement allows us to have hope in the strengthening of the cultural sector, but this inquiry of mine did not speak so much of a presupposition – which also – but rather of its department the strategies relating to one of the most important areas of culture and which often speaks little, very little. I refer, in concrete terms, to the conservation and management of cultural heritage. I want to look at the arrival, in those material testimonies that we have inherited from the societies that preceded us, that which, by law, we are obliged to preserve it and to reach it in the best conditions: cultural heritage. As you know, Counselor, Catalonia has been a pioneer in the preservation of monumental heritage. As an example, the first museum of the Spanish State was the Episcopal Museum of Vic, in 1893, and the second of all the Spanish State, the Diocesan Museum of Lleida, in 1893. For what it does to the immobile heritage, both the monumental and the archeological, the great men of the Renaissance, in the second half of the 19th century, like Pau Piferrer, called the preservation of the great medieval monuments. The modernists, like Puig and Cadafalch, continued their defense to whom they owe, beyond their great architectural works, the preservation of the Romanesque heritage, in order not to enter the famous chapter of the preservation of the Romanesque mural painting. It is not by chance that Catalonia has a wide repertoire of immobile conjuncts declared world heritage, from the work of Antoni Gaudí and Domènech and Montaner, to the Roman conjunct of Tarraco passing through the cultural landscape that conforms to the churches of the Valley of Boí, the rock paintings, the worn art or the monastery of Poblet, in order not to enter the declarations of immaterial patrimony. Yes, Catalonia has pioneered and led the preservation of cultural heritage, and allow them to do an extrapolation. Perhaps in this Roman leadership the remorse of King Pere III the Ceremony, which in 1380 sent balleters to the Acropolis of Athens to protect it, because, as a document of Rubio and Lluch narrates, according to the king, the Acropolis was the most precious jewel of the world. To value cultural benefits goes from the far, and that Catalonia once again leads the preservation of the monumental heritage, witnesses of its historical trajectory. Heritage, you know, it's a social construction. His consideration as an element to preserve, to the heredity that he can maintain and connect with the best conditions depends on the value that a national community confers on him. For this reason, the concept of heritage is dynamic and polysemic and has changed over time. That's why it's so important the research and knowledge transfer that they make of our experts so that the elements of the past do the necessary heritage process. Be known, valued, esteemed for citizenship as the element that attracts a sense of belonging and, therefore, a sense of collective identity. Just like that, and with this necessary inn-to-value process, an element is converted into a memory element and, therefore, into collectible assets. And it is that the value of heritage precisely in the degree of knowledge it has of this heritage. And in this process, the Administration has a primordial role to play. In this sense I would like to ask you, counsel: Who are the strategies that the Department of Culture that you are leading to preserve the rich repertoire of cultural heritage that history has come to us? Which broadcast programs and knowledge transfer and what assumptions? Certainly, I know of the work being done from the Department of Culture for the conservation and recovery of cultural heritage, and even to advance in the conceptual dynamics of heritage. At the same time, I am also aware of your sensitivity and your involvement with cultural assets, because I have had the opportunity to accompany you on visits to the territory and because I know that the government and the department that you are leading have objectives, have strategy and have clear plans to extend the life of our material assets. Also, the immaterial, especially the most precarious immaterial, which is the language, always likely to be used as the trigger weapon for those who want to misunderstand the demands and the need for its preservation. Before I said that one of the most important indicators of a national community is to have a cultured citizenry, which is what makes and defines the country. In the same way, the most powerful indicator that shows the quality of a cultured society is the degree of inn in value of its cultural heritage. In relation to the heritage of the territory and the most local, is BCIN – cultural good of national interest – or cultural good of local interest, with the Cultural Community, planned to establish priority lines of action designed with technical and objective criteria? Have they designed or will they design programs of action in the restoration of cultural and monumental heritage with a view of territorial equity? Cultural heritage restored and put into value is a powerful local development engine, which generates wealth through cultural tourism and, as an example, the unique valley of the Corb, in Urgell, and with the Cistercian monastery of Vallsanta it can become a great node of attraction of cultural tourism and that helps to diversify the economy. For what it does to the restoration program of monuments that is arranged with private entities, it was a success, councillor, the program "Romanic open, with which it has acted in a _watch of monuments. We know that it has in the damont of the table the program "Gothic time, with performances and investments until 2022, which will allow to intervene in monuments of first level, such as..., and allows'my license to ostentar..., to be of Lleida, of the Lands of Lleida, to mention, for example, the splendid church of Sant Llorenç, of Lleida, which exercised the functions of cathedral when his Vella was converted into military quarter for Felipe V ; or the Gothic church of Almenar, a jewel of the gothic leidatà ; or the castle of València d'Aneu, which tells us the actions of Count Hug Roger III of the Pallars. Certainly, public-private collaboration is an essential tool for maintaining cultural heritage. We celebrate the continuation of this public-private entity. Finally, and respecting preventive conservation, counselor, and in relation to the Malmès cultural heritage for the porters and riuades of October, I imagine they haven't yet evaluated the stars caused by Gloria. What assumptions and strategies have the department planned to act proactively and reactively before these situations? The settlement of the Vilars d'Arbeca, for example – a unique settlement for which..., for the reports relating to the Iron Age and to the Illergeta – it was strongly affected by the authorities and flooded the entire fossar. The imposing architectic joint of Castle of Farfanya lost a defensive tower when it collapsed for the porters. What does the department plan to do with it? The damages, it is clear, embrace from the deposits of Empuries to the castle of Miravet, passing through the monastery of Saints Creus, etc. Are there preventive conservation programs for the monumental heritage, Counselor? Of course, heritage is a memory of a community. And as Henri Rivière said, who is the father of modern museumology, "cultural heritage is a spur where the population is contemplated to recognize that there is an open door to hosts to be heard better. I want cultural heritage to have all those programs and tools to continue being an element of memory in this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor of Culture, the lady Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.8.0	Good morning; thank you, President. Good morning to all Members and Deputies. Congresswoman Montserrat Macià, it is always a pleasure to listen to her in this room, for all her expertise and for her sensitivity in dealing with the issues she deals with. As a result, it is a joy to be able to address you in order to treat precisely the immovable heritage of Catalonia. Well, this government has a course, a strategy, a clear goal. And how do we materialize that? So with plans that can be developed in time, because that supposes to make public policies serious and rigorous. Today I will talk to you not only about investments in heritage – which we have many and very important plans for – but I will explain to you the strategic lines, very briefly, of the Pla for conservation, protection and diffusion of the intangible cultural heritage of Catalonia, 2019-2025, because they know a bit of a key of this planning framework that gives feel to our performance. Actually, it's the first time we've published this... these master lines of the plan. The sectoral plan aims to prioritise protection, conservation, research, dissemination and evaluation actions on the assets that conform to Catalonia's immobile cultural heritage and set priorities through programs and projects, as well as ordering investments and seeking financing. The strategic axes of the Pla for conservation, protection and dissemination of this cultural heritage are five. Strategy 1 seeks the constant improvement of identification and protection instruments. Strategy 2 refers to the sustainable conservation of intangible cultural heritage. In this sense, the good knowledge of the conservation state of the immobile assets allows us to make decisions and activate policies based on the principles of prevention that you asked of me. Strategy 3 refers to the impulse of research – just as you asked me – applied to immobile cultural heritage with the aim of facilitating accessibility and our uses, and increasing its diffusion. Appropriate the heritage to the citizen. Strategy #4 takes a step further and focuses on the diffusion and inn of the intangible cultural heritage because it is converted into a factor of memory and recognition, of social cohesion and that collaborates in the welfare of society – as you very well said. Finally, strategy 5 refers to the improvement of the management of intangible cultural heritage and the assessment of its impact. It is also essential to define ways of expanding and diversifying the financing of projects through the inter-government community, aid competition, and the search for and promotion of public-private and sponsorship collaborations. It's true that this council believes that there must be the three great administrations in each of the places, together, to help make everything that I'm saying possible. That is to say, the Government of Catalonia, the deputies and the assemblies, in each of the places, I think there must be these three administrations together. That's why we're talking about this community, but it's true that culture can't be subsidized for a hundred percent, because it's impossible, and that's why we also need these private and sponsorship investments. Once the objectives and strategic lines of the Sectoral Platform are established, we focus on prioritizing the constituent elements of cultural heritage, taking into account the concept of territorial equity, as well as the historical, chronological and typological significance, and the ability to become diffuse elements of the values of the heritage. We work in the following lines. If we approve the assumptions – let us hope so – we will have a remarkable increase in the endowment for the best of our country's cultural heritage. Also, linked to the approval of the measuring law, we will move from '1_per_cent to '1,5_per_cent cultural, which will bring us more money for the heritage. We are channelling resources from European foundations and we are seeking financing from private entities. We must be able to reinvest the tickets obtained in marketing policies of the assets also in the same assets. For what it does to the realization of the programs of investments, we have obtained, for the first time, resources that come from the European foundations for the conservation of the patrimony, with an endowment of 8_million_i_mig of the convocation of the operating program Feder 2014-2020. This government trusts in private public finance projects. As you yourself highlighted the « Time of the Romanic, now we have at hand the « Time of the Gothic, which we hope to sign the agreement in a very short time, and present it. It's a deal we're just working on, because it's very short, with the Foundation "the Box for the period 2019-2022 and for a total import of more than 10_million euros. Intervention in these monuments distributed throughout the territory is envisaged. It's a bit like the Romanesque, but in this case in the gothic. For what it does to the planned interventions with its own resources coming from the premise and the '1,5_per_cent, I would like to highlight the action that has already begun at the Seu Vella de Lleida, for example, through the restoration works of the covers of the cloister and the interior of the bell and the Porta dels Apòstols for an import of 1,600,000_euros, and will occupy the years 2019-2021, they began at the end of the year passed and will end the next year. Also the intervention in the walled center of the Turó de la Seu Vella, with a forecast of total endowment of 600,000_euros. And we'd especially like to be able to give him these quantities because we know how Lleida feels, but also how the whole territory of our Catalonia feels. As for the World Heritage Site of Tarraco, we are making an agreement between the Assembly of Tarragona and the Department of Culture for its maintenance, conservation and restoration between the years 2020-2023, with a total endowment of 800,000_euro. Also the intervention at the Roman theatre of Tarragona, in the arrangement of the round of the Roman theater and the hyposcene, at the Roman Villa of the Mounts, at Altafulla, we plan to start works in short for an import of 700,000_euros; at the map of Escaladei, at Morera de Montsant, we will start works of restoration of the church and restoration and adequacy of the major cloister, for an import of 3_million euros. We have planned the structural recovery of the factory Asland, in Castellar de n'Hug, with an import of 700,000_euros, as well as a project of inn ambitions in the value of the castle monestir d'Escornalbou, together with the Diputació de Tarragona, for an import of 4_millions of euros. There are more performances, but I don't have much more time. It must be borne in mind that, for the first time, we will call for grants of €435,000 for the inn in value and accessibility of the archaeological and paleontological heritage of Catalonia. It must also be noted that the Directorate-General finances the recovery of all the assets through calls which, today, we have more than two-hundred actions for an import of 7,5_million euros, which are to be carried out between 2018 and 2021. With the approval of the new assumptions we can increase the endowment by 5_million more. As you said, honourable Member, the Gloria disaster has been devastating; we are still working to identify and assess the damage, but the damage we do have assessed and retested is already the damage caused by the previous time, from the 22nd and 23rd of October 2019, those torrential plugs that affected so many areas of Catalonia. We have assessed the actions that would urgently need to be taken – the total result of the investment that we are due in term up to 216,900€ – a pile of actions that respond to a coherent and rigorous program that seeks above all that the heritage continues, as you also said, economic engine, knowledge and joy for all of us. Among the performances of Dana there is..., for example, the most expensive one is the Gothic chapel of the castle of Montsoriu, of the 14th century, which was snorted: 85.000_euros; or the Archeological Park of Iesso, in Guissona ; the castle of Tarrega ; the village, village and necropolis of the Font, of Verdú. Anyway, let's hope that we can assess the damage caused by Gloria quickly and that we can also fix all this. Many thanks for your intervention, for giving me little to explain all this. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about culture in Catalonia]] [[300-00239/12]] The next question is about culture in Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.10.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors. Madam Counsellor, you have been in office for a year and we cannot highlight a single interesting initiative on your part. Indeed, the neglect of culture on the part of his Government has forced the birth of Actua Cultura, which is a platform that brings together the vast majority of companies in the Catalan cultural sector, and which at the beginning of the year issued a communiqué to denounce the unfair treatment – and, according to his words, indecent – of the Generalitat and to demand greater economic commitment. You have managed to unite against it companies of the performing arts, music, audiovisual, art and book. The sector demands a 2_per_cent of the budget, which is what Santi Vila already promised in 2015, and now, five years later, we are still around 1_per_cent, while we are the autonomous community with the highest and best paid positions. So, as they devote all their resources to that, the cultural sector drowns for lack of support. And that's for not talking about the museum offer, which languishes at the leniency of separatist governments – I doubt that I can answer if you don't listen to me –; I told him that this is for not talking at the leniency of the separatist and populist governments, both of the Generalitat and of the City of Barcelona. While Ada Colau refuses to have a headquarters of the Hermitage in Barcelona, given the absolute lewdness, also, of her department, my companion Marta Rivera, who is the Councillor of Culture of the Community of Madrid. reach out to the city council in order to create the Museum of the Madrileño Movement, and look is not that I want to sweep home, but while the cultural sector here in Catalonia joins to denounce its poor management, they recognize the great work of impulse of my companion Marta Rivera both in the Statute of the artist and in the Law of patronage. This shows that where Citizens rule culture has the consideration it deserves and that our vision of an open and inclusive culture becomes the engine of the dynamism of the sector; that is, exactly the opposite of what happens in Catalonia. While the separatist governments do not consider Catalan literature, so Juan Marsé, Maruja Torres, Terenci Moix, Javier Cercas, the Community of Madrid presents copies of Galdós to celebrate the centenary of his death or get eight_ thousand students to see Fortunata and Benito in the Theatres of the Canal, plus all the people who can see it by streaming. Galdós was born in the Canary Islands and lived there until he went to college, but the Madridns, instead of talking about races, as you, Mrs. Consellera, claim it as their own, but, come on, what are we going to ask of the nationalists, if they have not been able to even claim Rosalía until he drew a song in Catalan. Madam Counsellor, you are a philosopher and you know perfectly well that there is no text without context, so I will try to frame the context of your Government, which is nothing other than that of cultural fundamentalism. An anthropologist Verena Stolcke coined the concept of cultural fundamentalism in the 1990s to describe a new form of racism in which race is replaced by culture; that is, it is a form of covert racism. But the reality is that you don't hide much either, because you do speak openly of race. A few days ago he publicly declared that the Catalan race is defined by popular culture and folklore as sardines. If we look at Verena Stolcke's writings on cultural fundamentalism, we see that her statements are perfectly in line with the definition she makes, and also Mr. Torra's writings, because Mr. Torra has left in writing countless samples of that cultural fundamentalism, and you too, because I will quote what he wrote in the book The Trees. I quote literally: "Sardana is the true ritual of our race. This is literal, huh? This is what you wrote. Now, in response to my colleague Hector Amello's questions, he says it was a lapse, when he said it a few days ago. Was this also a lapsus, Counselor? , when he wrote it was a lapsus and when he did the test review before editing it was also a lapsus? That I'm also going to tell you one thing, the lapsus thing doesn't leave you in a very good place, does it? Because what Freud would tell us is that precisely the lapsus serves to access that which is repressed. [[Greetings.]] But, come on, you put the job easy on Freud, huh? , which is that neither is it that you repress yourself too much, that is that you speak openly of races as if nothing, like your partner of ranks, the mayor of Vic, speaks of people who seem Catalan or autochthonous, or not, according to their physical characteristics ; words that outraged this whole half of the Chamber, and you, instead of demarcating yourself from the words and saying : " But what have you said, ma'am? , he merely read so quietly what he had written. But, of course, how will you be outraged? If you have also translated it in writing in the presentation of the campaign« Do not change language, you speak of native Catalans who seem Catalan or not because of their physical characteristics. Can you explain to me, Madam Counselor, what those physical characteristics of the Catalans who are indigenous, according to you, consist of? Because you know what's going on? I will explain to you, that it is that people like the citizens' deputies, like the citizens' voters, who we believe in free and equal citizens, we do not understand that of the native Catalans who are different or not because of their physical characteristics. [[Greetings.]] Of course, and if there are some physical characteristics of the autochthonous Catalans, I say there will be others of the non-autochthonous Catalans. What are these characteristics? Those of the « wild beasts described by Mr. Torra, with mold in his teeth and so on? Those are the non-indigenous ones, aren't they? As I was telling you, Mrs. Counselor, neither you nor Mr. Torra are too repressed. You speak of the Catalan race because you really believe that there is a Catalan race, just like Oriol Junqueras believes that Catalan DNA is different from Spanish DNA and also leaves it in writing. Madam Councillor, is it not embarrassing for you to talk about the Catalan race in the middle of the 21st century? How will we expect you to renew the cultural sector if your conception of culture is nineteenth - century? From our point of view, it is evident that a person who speaks of sardana as the essence of the Catalan race cannot be at the forefront of Catalonian culture. But, of course, what's going on? , that when the defendant Borràs left office they saw her resume and said: "Man, this is the ideal lady to hold office. And I am not talking about their academic or professional merits, which undoubtedly have them and I recognize them, but that they saw that they had written about the Catalan race, like Torra and Junqueras, and also signed the Supremacist manifesto Koiné, in the same way as the imputed Borràs had signed it. The Koiné manifesto is a manifesto against bilingualism, with all the letters. And, look, in my opinion, if we had to be proud of something, it would be precisely that we are a bilingual society, that we are lucky enough to speak two languages. Why are you against bilingualism, Counselor? How does it seem normal for you to campaign to tell people not to speak Spanish and to speak Catalan alone? And you, in the Koiné manifesto, have stated, and I quote textually, that the Franco regime used – and I quote – « an immigration coming from Castilian speaking territories as an involuntary instrument of linguistic colonization. Are you aware of how offensive that results for much of the Catalans, that you have sewn up the people who come from outside? Look, there's nothing more supremacist than animalizing or seizing the other. Mr. Torra animalizes them and you cosmify them; that is, he takes away much of our humanity from most Catalans. And in a person like you there is the culture of Catalonia, so it is normal that in what it has mandate we cannot highlight a single measure to renew the cultural sector, which is so much needed. Because while you treat culture as a matter of races and sardine and you don't care about the sector, in Citizens we have an open and inclusive culture concept and we want Catalonia to be a pole of artistic and cultural attraction again. Let's see what happens, for example, with the publishing world. Since the second half of the 16th century Barcelona has been a pole of attraction for the edition. By the way, at that time much of the books published in Catalonia were in Spanish, followed by Latin, and only 17_per_cent of the books published in Barcelona were in Catalan. I'm commenting because when they made the Koiné manifesto they forgot to add this. And, as far as I know, in the middle of the 16th century neither the War of Succession nor the Franco regime had yet occurred. As I was telling you, in the face of your nineteenth-century vision of culture, we have an open and inclusive vision of culture. And while you leave the cultural sector, we claim your potential as an industry and consider that cultural workers, in order to do their job well, have to do it in the best conditions, and currently their working conditions are terrible. Commissioner, what measures do you have to improve the working conditions of workers in the cultural sector? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.11.0	To answer the word has the Counsellor of Culture, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.12.0	Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, counselors... Mrs. Sonia Sierra, well, you say I didn't do government work in this almost-year that I'm in this council. So, I don't know, maybe you weren't in Parliament when you approved a series of laws, changes of laws – which I'll now explain to you who you were – that you were the reason you came up with this project that you were thinking about, Acta Cultura, that you're not against this council, all very different from what you're saying. On May 9, 2019– and this is a long time ago– this Parliament approved the Law amending Law 6/2008, the Conca, with votes in favour of Junts per Catalunya, ERC, PSC, In Comú Pode and PP, forbearance from the CUP and votes against Ciutadans. This amendment of the law allowed to renew and constitute the plenary of the Conca, which once again has, as at its beginnings, seven members representing all sectors of the culture, partners for the first time, with a woman to the presidency and endorsed for this Parliament. I believe that this has been a success of this Parliament, of the Council and of all, less of you, who voted against it. On 13 November 2019, this Parliament approved the amendment of the Law of 27 July of fiscal and financial measures, and of a Law of 29 December 2000, which was the Law of creation of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Industries – there are all cultural enterprises – with votes in favour of Junts per Cat, ERC, PSC, PP, the CUP and the forbearance of Ciutadans and En Comú Pom. This law allowed us to continue to support and accompany the needs of the cultural enterprises of the country by the Department of Culture through the ICEC, a very efficient tool for the service of our creative economy and a law of the 21st century; a tool, the ICEC, of the 21st century. That's why we don't have to congratulate each other, maybe less you. I gave support and impulse to these changes of laws from the moment I got to the council. And I also needed, from the very first moment, the alliances of the parliamentary groups and of the whole cultural sector, which started there. I found these alliances. And thanks, too, to the Department of Culture team, all this went forward. From this joint work between the Department of Culture, the Conca, representatives of the cultural sector and parliamentary groups, especially members of the Committee on Culture, culture has not been strengthened. And from here it was born justly Acta Cultura. Because, as they say in the manifesto that they presented to the media the month of generation, they have seen the strength that they can hold with their union at the side of the Councillor of Culture to claim what this Councillor has claimed since the first moment, which is more money to Culture. That's it, Mrs. Sierra. They are not against this advice, but we all go together, with parliamentary groups, to get more money for culture. And, in fact, we didn't get more money for culture. And that's what you see under the presupposition of 2020 that these days are being debated in Parliament. I believe that you are also in this debate on the assumptions and that you can see that we increase the money destined for Culture with 38,5_million additional euros, a 14,2_per_cent more on the assumption of 2017. And, if we add 16_million euros of the audiovisual tax eliminated in 2017 by the Constitutional Court, which we will also add, the real bid is more than 54_million euros, almost a 22_percent increase. Thus, the premise of the Department of Culture grows above the departmental middle class, which represents an 11_per_cent. Moreover, there is another very important and widely claimed element that we can promote from the Law of fiscal measures: the modification of the '1_per_cent culture, which passes to '1,5_per_cent culture, reserved in the assumptions of the public works with the aim of investing it in the conservation, restoration, excavation and acquisition of the assets, which is what we explained in the previous inquiry. We keep on getting it, trying to get more money from Culture, but it's not easy. Why? Because we have against a series of elements such as, for example, that the State has this fiscal deficit with Catalonia that makes it impossible to get all the money that would be destined here. And, besides, it is difficult for our museums to shine as much as we want, even though our contributions are superior, because – as I said the other day of this forum – MNAC and Macba, for example, have a contribution of 3_million in the general assumptions of the State, extended by 2020, while Prado or Queen Sofia have 41. And that, one year or another. I've never heard them report it. Why don't they report it? That they don't think the Catalans also have the right to some first-class museums. [[Greetings.]] Or why we have never heard them claim the provincial library for the city of Barcelona, an investment that the State has made practically all provincial capitals carried, oh by chance! In Barcelona. Don't you want a big library for your fellow citizens? Well, these are some of the things that I wanted to say to you about what you do to the money we sell to culture. But there is one thing I would like to say to you: that you are not condemning yourself to demolish, more than not to build, and to always try to go against us. I mean, you have your ideas, and we'll always have ideological differences. I'm an independentist, a Republican, and I'd like the best for Catalonia, and the best for Catalonia is what I've tried to do since this Culture Council. Catalonia, just over 32,000 square meters, just over 7 million inhabitants; with a unique language, which is català, except for the Aran, which is the Aran; with three official languages – català castella and aranes-occità–; 947 municipalities that share these: 850 libraries, 311 archives, 114 museums plus 379 collections, 137 cinema halls, 175 theatre halls, 2,298 BCINs – cultural benefits of national interest: monuments, historical complexes, archaeological zones... – 5,000 cultural entities without any record, with more than half a million associated people; 50,000 cultural activities; less than 10,000 celebrations; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 18,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 12,000 public buildings; 32,000 public buildings; 32,000 public buildings; 32,000 public buildings; 32,000 public buildings; 22,000 These data exemplify the rich cultural heritage of our country, Catalonia, a land of step and accompaniment, a place of civilizations, of those that preceded us, with a language that cohesives us and many languages that enrich us. They don't want to make the castle their own, it's not your heritage, they don't want to use it as a crowd of votes. Culture unites us, lies down, joins us, provides us with awareness of who we are, where we come from and where we go. And we're in the 21st century; I'm very clear, that we're in the 21st century. Managing all this cultural capital made up of people and heritage is the duty and responsibility of this councillor, and it is an honor, a great honor. "To serve the common when the hour is up is law of all democracy," Lluís Nicolau d'Olwer wrote. In this we are, in serving the common, and the common are the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans who see Catalonia. And I let Mercè Rodoreda, who is my..., one of my headwriters: "What I consider vital to our culture are the fonaments, and the fonaments are the language," she said. The government of the Generalitat bets, and strong, for culture, has always abetted, and it also does so on the assumptions of 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, the deputy has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.14.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, since we are the "best united, we are the ones who always look for what unites us, I am deeply glad that we share the lead writer, because Mercè Rodoreda is also one of my lead writers, and, by the way, I have given lectures on her. I have asked him about cultural initiatives, and in his reply he has not answered a single cultural initiative that really serves to renew the sector. And I've asked him a lot of questions, he hasn't answered me one, he's jumped me with the classic "Spain steals us and he's also asked me questions! That no, Madam Counselor, this does not work that way; that it turns out that I ask the questions to you and you answer me, not the other way around. But, look, by default, I'm going to answer your questions. The theme of the provincial library..., if it was your government – well, the previous nationalist government – that did not want the provincial library, to make the mammoth of the Born Centre Cultural! If the building, paid for by the Government of Spain, was already there, it was you who did not want it! [[Greetings.]] And, as far as the Spanish is our language, no, no, we consider that all are our languages, we have a very big heart, we have many flags and many languages. The one who considers that the Spanish is not his language and is our language, and the Catalan is not the language of those of Citizens, is the deputy Freixas, of his party. See the intervention in which you explain it, which is very interesting. And finally, are you a philosopher? How can you speak your own language? From a philological point of view, there is no concept of one's own language. It is a political concept of the nationalists, but as a philosopher, please don't use it, because that offends me deeply. Another issue of great interest to us is that of gender inequality in the cultural sphere. There are national and international studies that point to gender inequality in: incorporation and working conditions in the cultural and creative industry; in positions of power and leadership; in access to prizes, grants, scholarships and other recognitions; and in the visibility of works created by women. All this could be summed up in the fact that women artists and creators have far more difficult career paths than men, and it is not that women want privileges because they are women, but that what we want is to be on equal terms. And it is clear that the causes of inequalities are multiple, but one of them is the lack of support from administrations. So my question is: what concrete steps are you going to take to foster creation..., and end these gender inequalities? And if there is an artistic sector where the gender gap really becomes evident is audiovisual. We are far from achieving parity in film directors, television, screenwriters, producers, assemblers, composers and representatives of creative and technical departments. And from here I want to thank Cima for her work in trying to fight for that equality and to bridge that gender gap. It is clear that profound structural changes need to be made, so I ask you: what measures do you intend to take with the audiovisual sector and these gender differences? And, since we are with the audiovisual sector, the lack of support from your department is motivating many producers to leave Barcelona and go to Madrid. As I told you in the first part of my speech, it is noted that where Citizens governs the culture has the place it deserves, and every day more bags are made to Madrid and producers, technicians and actors who start spending more time in the AVE, then they open there a delegation and finally move to the whole company, to the point that in 2011 40_per_cent of Spanish audiovisual production was carried out in Catalonia and in 2018, only 20_per_cent. What steps will be taken to make Barcelona a new epicenter of audiovisual production and to return, at least, to that 40_per_cent? And another issue that worries us is the LGTBI collective. Undoubtedly, here in Catalonia the Casal Lambda is a reference on this subject, and they have a documentary fund, the Armand de Fluvià, which collects information about that collective; it is a fund with incalculable value, and I ask you: what measures will you take to guarantee the future of that fund? The truth is that the damage that the populist and separatist governments of the Barcelona City Council and the Generalitat of Catalonia are doing to culture is incalculable. Last January saw the best of the culture of 2019, the prestigious report of the Observatori de la Cultura, and there are disheartening data. For example, among the top ten positions in the national ranking of cultural institutions and events of 2019, Catalonia does not appear. My God, let Catalonia not be among the top ten! We have to go down to the thirteenth place to find, by the way, the fantastic exhibition « Feminisms, of the Centre de Cultura Contemporània. That means that it passes us through Madrid, which occupies six of the top ten positions – I insist, it is noted where it governs Citizens [[remorse of the voice]] – but also the Basque Country and Santander. Catalonia can no longer be among the top ten positions in a ranking like this. So I ask you, counsel: what measures will you take to make Catalonia a pole of artistic and cultural attraction, as it was in the past...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.15.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.16.0	...and have the different nationalist governments been burdened? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.17.0	There's the word now the counselor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.18.0	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, well, I have to say that Catalan language is Catalonia's own language, and I'm going to say it again. [[remorse of the voice]] – It is the official language of Andorra, it has around 7_million speakers and enjoy a bad iron salute, but it needs and deserves all the attention, as said our head writer, Mercè Rodoreda. Because, as Catalonia has not been close to it, the Catalan language that is its own competes with the languages of the two powerful states– three, we would say– in which it lives: the castle has around 500_million speakers and the French in tea around 300_million. The Government of the Generality's obligation is to protect and promote the use of Catalan language. Because when a language dies, our world is much poorer. [[applause]] And for this reason we need... As a philosopher, I tell you many years ago that I am concerned about the future of the Catalan language; and you need to know that, all the way around my bibliography. The trees– 1984, was published on 86 – in short, don't literally say what you say, no, no, no, no, because you haven't got the book in your hands, say it for third parties. And that's the third saying, the journalist who looked into my bibliography and took the book of trees and that phrase, which you don't say exactly that. The tree book is a tree book. And this phrase that you literally attribute to me – which I say, I say again, if I look at it; the philosophers must be very strict, and I have sometimes lost a night in case it were to be ‘to where it was to be', that syllabus or that letter in a word of a critical edition that was making a catal humanist of the 15th century, for example – so it is in a tree that is said to be ‘to die.' You didn't know that was the tree of the mill. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you know that? Did you read it? What luck, I have another reader of the book of trees! I already told you to read them at my academy. Edu projaven. Well, the Moors were the Moors of my town square, and that's where I danced sardans when I was little, yes. And surely, if you'd been Greek, you'd have danced sirtaki and said exactly the same thing, you know? [[applause]] : that it was the ritual that my land was. What did I write and say race? So, miri, why? Because this word is a word that today, in the 21st century, I know it's anachronistic. This is written in the 20th century. [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, in the 20th century, we are now in the 21st century –, and it is an archaism; I know, that it is an archaism, but, look, even so, if you list all the writers of the 19th century, of the 20th century and of the 21st century who speak, for example, of a race of daring women or of a race of daring men, we would not finish this session today; the examples were not there. But it's an allegorical, metaphorical term... In other words, being Catalan, I think, is to feel identified with the community, the Catalan people, for the free will of its members. And in this same mark it is Catalan not only answer to a criteria in singular, but to a complex plurality of factors. Centers in a unique historical and cultural framework of common references, there are many forms of being catalá, and these forms are restrictive. You know 2003 is over studying the human genome. There are a lot of articles I'd like to tell you about this, but I'm not going in there right now. If you want, I'll give you the bibliography. He asked me the question of the genere. I look, for example, at the Conca, which, earlier on, has the birthplace of the Conca, there is a woman who is president, but there is more a woman who is the president of the Visual Dones to the audiovisual media: Miriam Porter is the person who lives in the Conca for the birthplace of gender. But, in addition, for audiovisual productions; just had Gaudí and Goya awards, now, Miriam Porter, and it is one of the people we have in the Conca. So we do deal with the genre and we do deal with the visual arts, and we give support to the creators. We will contribute more than 25_per_cent to the public network of visual arts centers and spaces, to the creation centers. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Finally, we dedicate a lot more money to cultural enterprises that are dedicated to visual arts than we have dedicated until now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.19.0	Thank you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.20.0	I've got it all, too, and under the culture assumption, you can see it all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.21.0	We then move on to the point of the order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the situation of detention centres for foreigners. [[Question to the Government on the situation of detention centres for foreigners]] [[300-00235/12]] It has the word, to formulate the inquiry, the deputy Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.22.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, counselors... The CIES, internment centers for foreign people, who are centers that are not penitentiaries, that intern foreign people who have been held for the simple fact of being in an irregular administrative situation, before – often – being expelled. I mean, they're people who haven't committed any crime and ended up in prison. Now, look, I'm not going to take advantage of this to explain one thing to you, and with regard to the previous inquiry. Against what has remained established in the imaginary collection – in certain imaginary collection – Franco, it is certain that he did not try to Spanishize Catalonia through migration. The reality, in fact, is quite different, it's good coughing and it's often more critical and it's worse than all that. During the period of the Autarquia of the 40's until the end of the 50's, the beginnings of the 60's, there are many people who from various towns, from various cities of the Spanish State wanted to come to Catalonia in search of a better life. The Francoist law, however, did not allow them to come here. If you wanted to come, move 'from the Spanish territory or, therefore, come to Catalonia without a work permit, a work contract in concrete – there was no need for a work permit only, but you needed the concrete contract of the work or a direct family member – it was considered that you were moving by between the territories of the State in an illegal way. You are an illegal Spanish immigrant from the territories of the Spanish State. That's why a lot of people before arriving at the station in France – and here there's a lot of documentation in the form of photographs and videos – jumped off the train before arriving at this station. Because arriving at the station in France was, in short, a handful of controls that looked at whether or not you had these papers. This was done by the Franco police, who were employed in Franco laws. These people who jumped off the train were left in a legal vacuum and, therefore, moved to Catalonia without having papers. It was illegally moved to Catalonia. I don't know if it sounds like someone, all folded. A lot of these people, of course, like I didn't have papers to be able to work legally, to which he was dedicated is to work irregularly. A lot of these people ended up working on the erratic street sale. I also don't know if we sound or find any relationship with today. What was going on? If the French police found and detained him and took him to Palau of the Missions. The Palau of the Missions is in place of Spain, in the Fira de Montjuïc – there is currently the Fira de Montjuïc there was the Palau of the Missions. And there they were, in a species of internment center, hoping to take you to your native village. Therefore, a space very similar to today's foreign internment centres. They recruited people, locked them in the Palau de les Missions, and brought them back to their village of origin. This is during the period of the autorquia. Today, Europe has 280 CIES. Of these 280 foreign internment centres, seven are found in the territories of the Spanish State. In Algesires, in Palmas de Gran Canaria, in Madrid, in Murcia, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, in València and, effectively, in Barcelona. The current CIE of Barcelona, moreover, is not far from the ancient Palau of the Missions; it is to the other band of the hull, to the vessant oposada of the Montjuïc mountain. We find him at the barrio of the Free Zone. And a CIE, like the CIE of the Free Zone, is a perfect illustration of the institutional racism of the Spanish State. A model of institutional racism has, of course, reached the model that the citizenry of Catalonia wants and also in concrete that of Barcelona, which has manifested itself massively and repeatedly in favor of the closure of this foreign internment centre. He has voted for it, voted for it several times in municipal plenary and also in this same chamber, also repeatedly. A country, moreover, which has repeatedly expressed its willingness to be a land of concentration and which has tried to demonstrate it with all its virtues and all its deficiencies. Our job, indeed, must be to work with all the tools that we have in supply to make a different society, which guarantees the same rights and opportunities for everyone. A cohesive and inclusive society. A solid society, according to republican values and human rights, where the discrimination that the foreign internment centre can represent – discrimination because of origin, gender, creed or what it is – does not have a social or institutional connection. We must therefore find the accumulation of forces necessary to absolve the main pillars on which this institutional racism is based..., this Parliament of women in tea few, but you can look for this correlation of forces to fall, to begin with, the foreign law. A foreign law that criminalizes the migrant person, that hinders any process of regularization, unless it arrives, obviously, here with the well-filled butxaques, and that allows the existence of barbarity as is the opaque case of ICES. And you say "opaque" because if any Member of this House wishes to go to a foreign internment centre in the centre of the Free Zone tomorrow, and knocks the door and believes himself as a Member and wants to enter or request permission beforehand, there will be no way he can enter. Therefore, everything that happens there is known as a result of which the same internals that have ended up coming out or some entities that can, in a credible way, end up coming in. It is therefore necessary to replace the foreign law with a law of human mobility for a gang; a law that guarantees the worthy treatment of all people by means of the famous legal and secure lives, as has been claimed in a way that insists on this very Parliament and during this same legislature. A law that allows, for example, the obtaining of nationality resides in a maximum real of five years and that makes it more flexible the granting of residence permits; that does not deport, and less that you do in warm, which, of course, carried the Socialist Party in the electoral program and that during this period in which the Socialist Party is in the Government of the Spanish State has produced returns that warmer in the last few years. A law that decentralizes the system of collide – a complaint also almost eternally – and that provides foundations, more, to be able to finance it. That you expedite the procedures to complete the right to live in the family, that you therefore allow the family reunification of the people migrated; that you recognize the right to vote to the citizenry, and that you are not so in prison, to the CIE, for the sole fact that you do not have papers. There are citizens born in Catalonia who are twenty years old, who are twenty-five years old and who have not yet been able to vote in their lives. There are cases of citizens as Catalan as we are, who are 15 years old here, living in the same fold, with us, who are, therefore, we, who are part of us, and who do not have papers– 15 years, who do not have papers. And, therefore, a person who is fifteen years old here, who has a stable life, who has a life that could look like that of any other person, can be found in the event that he reaches the street, that he sees that he does not have papers and that he ended up locked in a foreign internment centre and that, therefore, he feels deported to his country of origin. And it is for these reasons that it is essential that the Spanish State ratify Additional Protocol No. 16 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which would enable it to request preliminary opinions from the European Court of Human Rights before it decides on the interpretation of conflicts with the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, this procedure would help to put, for example, among many examples, among many things, the returns being heated. In one state, moreover, that the mass of the tools that are designed to protect minority collections are instrumental in ensuring the impunity of the collections that promote hatred, as the prosecution has believed in its circular in which it makes clear that the Faixist collections are likely to suffer hate crimes. A very strange thing. The Barcelona City Council has certainly sought all these lives to close it; in fact, it opened an expedition on 28 April 2016 due to the lack, in this case, of adequacy of the CIE's activity license. Despite this, it was two months, I think, I remember they were, closed; it was opened again. The majority of people, foreigners, migrants who are going to stop at the ICES come from... people who see through pastries, people who see the worst of ways, in the least safe way possible, but we also find ourselves with people who are stuck with results, with side effects, with other operations. It's an operation at the Raval to search for, to pick up drug traffickers' floors, and it turns out they end up more people being held and locked up – innocent – so they don't have papers, that drug traffickers have found; or directly beating places, barrels, subway doors to find people without papers. Therefore, counselor, we believe that Catalonia must initiate, it must be the impetus necessary for this derogation, for the repeal of the foreign law, and for working in a legal framework that allows and manages citizen mobility. And, in a more concrete and urgent way, it must generate an impulse – and seek the alliances, above all, and the correlation of forces that make it possible – to definitively close these prisons, the internment centers of foreigners. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Chakir El Homrani, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.24.0	Councillors, vice president, deputies and deputies... Deputy Wagensberg, you have clearly placed and explained in global terms that it is a foreign internment centre. He explained what it is: an equipment that retains people for their administrative situation. Is that fair? No, no, Are you opaque? Yes, it's a grey part of our society, and it's grey not to say black. And I don't want to say black because it always ended up using black as a pejorative element. But it is of those parts that show how a person, because of his or her administrative situation, is limited to freedom without any type of judicial order. It is certainly a very clear example of what the foreign law ends up generating. You've set it up perfectly. But I would add another element: it helps build an imaginary. It helps build an imaginary on the other. It helps to build an imagination about that other which is dangerous, which must be closed; that which has not done anything, but which only by reason of its origin must be closed and is dangerous. An imaginary that goes against the kind of society, country, community we want to build. And you even took advantage of the reference to the previous inquiry and explained how they managed the names of internal migrations during the period of the Franco-State Autoarchy, the Franco-Feixist State, which suffered in the Spanish State for forty years. And he was there to talk about the previous question, question where, as much the councilwoman as the deputy Sierra, who I don't see here, they talked about having the same reference writer, Mercè Rodoreda. I won't talk about Mercè Rodoreda, but I will take advantage of another writer I had the pleasure of being your student at the Joan Boscà Institute, of Catalan language. It was Maria-Mercè Marçal. And I'm also surrounded by a debate that I think is a debate that some people want to take advantage of, but Maria-MercÃ© Marçal explained it in a very clear way: our identity is an identity that adds up, and it's an identity that adds up from being rebellious before situations of injustice. And he explained it perfectly. When we do things right, when we get out, it's when we're able to build a language, to build a community that you don't tell anyone that you're going to stop being things, that doesn't counter-identities, that's what part of this Parliament's bench likes to do, counter-identities. Counterpose, in summarizing accounts; tell people that it's either one thing or another. And no, when we do it right, it's when we build that being a català doesn't mean no more being nothing. And I think it's important that we do this because the imagination that builds the CIS has been around this, the imagination that builds the Foreign Law has been around this; it has been about how to add vulnerabilities to people, like so many people, to citizens of our society, of our community, we add vulnerabilities to an administrative issue. And even we're able to close them, close them for months, close them opaquely, because we don't want anyone to look inside. And when in an institution it doesn't want to look inside it it's worrying, not to mention dangerous. When we don't want to look inside, there's something I want to store. Surely, the first step that we should take is that you are not responsible, if you really want to change it..., that I think you have to change it, that there is an agreement in this country, around the administrations, around the civil society, around the citizenry, that the ICES will close, but since they do not want to lock them up as the least transparent. But they don't want to be. And if they don't want to be, it's because there's something that embarrasses them from this situation. As I said, the CIE creates imagination, the CIE in the background does not cease to be a tip of the foreign law's iceberg, in that way we find vulnerabilities. And I think it's important that we find it because the solution is not only the closure of the CIS, of the ICES set that is in the Spanish State; the solution is to arise if as society we can generate more vulnerabilities to citizens and our citizens from a law, if we don't approach bringing the citizens who live in our country to the submerged economy denying them rights, if we can't do and we can't be as honest as it is today a country like Germany, which is not governed by the world's most radical left. What do you say? So he gives a work permit even though that person doesn't have documentation and even that person can have an expulsion process. And that's what Germany does, it doesn't make a state out of place. What we need to do is reflect on whether when we talk about safe lives, what we don't create, are more insecure lives, without acting respectfully; if we have a law that requires you to have three years of relationship – and after the difficulties in the process of relationship – to be able to regulate your situation..., three years, what will the person who lives in the barrio, in the village, in the city of this country do? What situation does she let go of? Three years of absolute insecurity and three years in which you will always have the possibility of being tanked in a prison without having done anything. Imagine the feeling, the perception that a person from the society that he has come to, that he wants to cuddle, that he wants to help build, with the feeling that they can close it without having done anything, only because he has no residence permit or work permit. In the year 2019, making a sum and the rest of the people who arrived in the Spanish State, who arrived with long-stay visas, who arrived with tourist visas and who came out, and about 300,000 more people who have stayed in this country and who are in an irregular situation; 300,000 people who at a given time, without any motivation, without any justification, can introduce them and stay in an IEC, close them, close their freedom. In the end, the problem of funds is that of the foreign law. Come on, let's add alliances, let's add complicity, and let's look at this reality that has not been addressed in a reasonable way in the framework of the European Union for a long time, but well done, and in sum, right, which is what is close to us. Because in the end – and if you allow me to finish this, and I think that it can even connect a part of the previous question and a part of it – what we want to be, what they claim to be any country, any society, is a community, be a community aware of our diversity, that this diversity makes us stronger; be a cohesive community – is not an anthem" diversity and "cohesion, more quickly, in 2021, is a need, a demand – and be a community that leaves no one else or outside, which, in the end, is truly the one that generates cohesion and community. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's no reply. [[Question to the Government on the agricultural sector]] [[300-00238/12]] We therefore turn to the 14th item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the agricultural sector presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And to expose it has now the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.26.0	Thank you. Good day, counselor; good day, deputies and members of the Government. I will divide this inquiry into two blocks: a more general part i a more specific second part. First, I'll start with 1.2_per_cent. I've been repeating myself lately, but I promised to help you and I'm gonna do it. The Government of the Generalitat dedicates a 1,2_per_cent of its budget to its department, to Agriculture. And I'm sorry to have to repeat, but it's that Agriculture is losing strength, and I'm worried; your government doesn't give it the priority it deserves either the department or the sector it needs to attend to. And so much so that I will read, literally, a piece of his appearance in commission the other day; literally: « The Government is a reflex of society. There is a disaffection between the rural and urban world, and I also find it difficult to convince government companies to represent the society that voted for them. The aspiration is to have more on the premise and the department is at the place that is worth the GDP that it represents and other things. It's obvious you're not enough. This is a literal reading of his words. Therefore, I see that you are aware of the justness of the department's budget and you are also aware that you have failed to convince your fellow government officials to have a sufficient budget. For this does not help in any way the worrying situation of the sector, with mobilizations throughout Europe, with protests in other autonomous communities, and it seems that here in Catalonia there is also beginning to be some movement. But why do farmers protest? Because of the low prices at source; they do not sell their products at the price they charge for unfair practices, because of difficulty in controlling competition, because of competition with third parties, because of third countries; they add high production costs, with the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage; with environmental requirements assumed as one more cost. As a result, there is a reduction in agricultural income that does not motivate young people to stay in agricultural space at all; in addition to other uncertainties, such as the Russian veto, US tariffs, Brexit, CAP reformulation, etc. This situation, which I will not continue to detail, is the one that provokes the protests. And this situation also has very worrying effects: the ageing of the rural population, the abandonment of agricultural holdings, the depopulation of agricultural areas, because there are no young people in the countryside. And it is a problem that is of the whole society; although the agricultural sector is protesting, it is a problem of the whole society. And this government devotes only 1.2_per_cent of the total budget to the department that has the most to say about this problem. Therefore, these protests go from this: the agrarian world demands more attention from the rest of society and respect for a profession, a profession more than worthy and with a vocation of service. The whole society receives a number of benefits from agrarian and forestry activity, social, environmental and economic benefits; social benefits as well as that which retains the population in the territory, contributes to the population balance; environmental benefits as the management of a territory and a landscape, promotes biodiversity, preserves the natural environment, helps to capture CO2 from the air – which we are so concerned about – the management of the water cycle, and economic benefits in the productive economy, in jobs, etc.. If society receives these benefits as a whole from the primary sector, it is logical to expect society to return or make a return in one way or another. And how? For a return may be in the form of recognition and respect, not criminalizing the paupers, who are always the bad guys in the film; they should not be permanently suspected of bad managers, or excessively economicists. There may also be a return in the form of structural aid, fire prevention, rural roads, irrigation, food chain control, food security, too, but also to ensure the absence of abusive practices, avoid market domains; the promotion of agricultural products, market studies, etc. And also represent and defend the interests of the sector, both in the face, for example, of the CAP, or vis-à-vis other departments, which also stretch. The list can be immense, and there are many ways in which society can pamper the primary sector, its livestock, its agriculture, its forests and its fisheries. And let's not forget the agro-industry either. And if you look, Counselor Jordà, all this is the competence of your department. So I join these proposals, and my Group of Citizens supports the agricultural sector, which is only claiming to be able to make a living with its work. So you trusted that this social visibility will help you convince your government to give you a little more budget, which I'm sure we can scrape some things in favor of the department. And the big question I'm asking you about this general block is, what's going to be your department's real top priority for 2020? And I move on to the more specific part, which I will ride with the second intervention. I will occasionally focus on the Lands of the Ebre. I say « casually because I have fixation with Terres de l'Ebre. Specifically, the Delta has an economy based on agriculture – rice, mainly – fishing and aquaculture – with mussels, oysters and clams, which are famous throughout the world – and tourism, which is precisely attracted by a unique agricultural landscape, by a unique natural environment, by outdoor sports and by customs, gastronomy, etc.. But the Delta is very complex and very fragile; we have seen it recently, it is very fragile. And, like every system, it has, apart from, a series of chronic problems. One is, for example..., among many, I will quote the Bay of Fangar, which is being closed by the accumulation of sands that we bring to the beaches, for tourists, for another type of economy, but it accumulates in our mouths and costs renewing the water, increases the temperature of the bay, increases salinity and the mussels are paying it. For this, what solutions do we have? Another chronic aspect would be the retreat of the coast line; we lost ground to the sea, by currents, by storms, by the smaller sediments. Are we going to wait for the sea to reach Deltebre or do we have any planned plans? Then there's the apple snail. You can't imagine how heavy I put on the apple snail. At some point I had some nickname that some colleague made me, so... [[Greetings.]] I do not understand that this plague, which is really so dangerous, has not generated policies that are really aggressive against this plague, no, because it does not only affect rice, it affects the entire balance of the Delta: the natural park, the tourism, the landscape. And have we already renounced the eradication? At least, are we going to eradicate it from the right hemidel? By the way, there were EUR 5 million in five years that I think are about to end. Is there a plan for the continuity of this aid to combat apple snails? And then there is the subject of saponins, a treatment that is something effective, but it also affects the mussels. This conflict of interest, how is it being resolved? I will also quote the tiger mosquito and the black fly, which is also another of the favorite bugs. I know your department isn't the one that handles these pests, but really the rice sector has a lot to do with it. And I would like you to explain to me how the department collaborates in this management, whether it has something to do with it, or, simply, well, it's one more thing that needs to be coordinated. Community of regants. They are private entities that offer an essential public service in the Delta; they intervene in the control of the apple snail, they are the managers of the water cycle, and in the Delta this is very important. Do they really get enough support from the department or do you think we should help them a little bit more? , because in his hands is regulating the salinity of the farms, the renewal of the bays, etc.. But the Delta is not isolated, in Terres de l'Ebre there are other problems that are also chronicled, which is the Xerta-Sènia irrigation, which I would also like to take this opportunity to explain to us how this irrigation system is for this year, whether it will start seriously or not; and the subject of millennial olive trees. This really also depends on another department but it is really affecting some owners, some farmers who have olive trees, which will affect them, this protection, either positive or negative. I'd like to know, the department, how it's going to happen..., so far it's gone from dots, but how it's going to happen when this goes on. And I'm going to give myself the license to name other topics, I'm going to name them quickly, because I'm running out of time. There is the issue of depopulation of Terres de l'Ebre, which is, along with several regions of Lleida, where more people are being lost. The transport, and in particular the train, which with the variant has not been recovered neither trains, nor frequencies, nor travel times. And, to top it off, the territorializable investments of the Generalitat in Terres de l'Ebre. And by the way, in Montsià they are below the gross domestic product they generate. And now he's going to accuse me of telling me that this is not up to Agriculture: "Francis, it's not up to Agriculture." I know, of course, I mean it on purpose, because I can't ask two counselors. So, I have asked..., who I have the most relationship with, and I also believe that he is responsible for agricultural policies, rural policies, and precisely one of the great difficulties is coordination between administrations and coordination between departments for a problem that we have on the table, which is rural depopulation. In my opinion, Agriculture must have a very strong_weight in this work, and the big question in this sector is: what plans it has for the rural development of the Delta and the Terres de l'Ebre, and what policies it will push. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Teresa Jordà, has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.28.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Thank you very much, Congressman. In fact, you have made an extremely generic intervention here but that helps me, helps me that it is perfectly visualized that many of the problems that affect our territory, wherever you are, whether you are in Hebrew, whether you are in Segria or in Pallars, do not depend exclusively on this department. And that's worth putting it in value, but, if I may, I'll focus more on the issue of the Ebre Delta in the second intervention. Now I'd like to make a few paralegals of the department's policies, because they also help to hear many of the questions you raise. In fact, a little more than a year ago, and we were already presenting the department's actions, we were presenting these actions in the governing board, in the framework of this high-ranking legislature, and we were going to mark two great axes that you know perfectly well and I'm convinced that it supports, because basically it can't be any other way, even though that would be a bit of a pedant, but that's what it is, isn't it? The first is the food. We are the food department and, look, in this country, the citizens and citizens have the mania of eating five times a day, which is important and which is that this food is healthy, safe and quality for us to ask it perfectly, and we are those who fight every day to ensure to the Catalan people that, in the medium and long term, have this physical access and also this economic access to a food that is sufficient and that is, as I say, nutritious, according to the needs of the food, as it cannot otherwise be, for a healthy and healthy life. The second, which also went very directly with the things you said to me, is that of territorial cohesion; the feeding for a canton and the other block of territorial cohesion. Because it is essential to guarantee this access to a cohesive territory. Because, if not, we don't think we're talking about the country, we're talking about Barcelona and the metropolitan area, and here we're leaving. I keep insisting – and you also said this in your first intervention – on the idea that pages and pages must be viable, that is to say, they must be able to make a living, because if pages and pages in this country do not make a living, then we will not have a territory..., first we will not have food, important, but we will not have an economically vertebrate territory. In fact, we won't have any people. Actually, there won't be any people. And, I repeat, there will be no food. Unfortunately, in Catalonia we have sectors that almost cyclically – and this is evidence, we all know – suffer, suffer because their products have worthy prices, have fair prices. To speak today of the law, to set an example, but only of the law, of the Avellana, or to speak of the fruity sweetness, or to speak of the citrics of the Ebro or of the vinya is to speak of a demand for fair prices on pages and pages. This asks the whole administration, as you very well said, but the sectors concerned also have to prioritise the work in the search for solutions to the complaint. And that's not a toilet. I mean, it's totally about everyone and everyone. We all know who each one's dues are, and these dues, the only way we get out of it is for everyone to compliment it. From the department we've designed solutions, obviously, short-term solutions in the form of help– I'm talking and I'm talking about the right price, huh? – in the form of help with the immediate objective of dealing with the crisis of prices. But the most important thing is that we are pushing structural measures, that a little attempt to answer your question. Because this is a structural problem and we must also give it out in the medium and long term so that it can structure, as it cannot otherwise be, the offer of the sectors, and make them viable for itself. I mean, nobody likes to live on grants, obviously. And this sector, because it can, because it deserves it and because it has the potential it requires, it has to be able to live, obviously, or it has to be viable for itself. In this sense, I want to put in value, for example, the organizations of producers, vital. The sector's own self-organisation is very important. This is how we recognize it and, look, at the meeting yesterday with the Minister, with the rest of the Councillors and Councillors of the State, put it in value. I had the opportunity to speak on a Tuesday by phone, apologizing that yesterday I couldn't be there for a question from the plenary, and that's one of the first things he said to me. That is to say, we must encourage producer organisations. It is vital that the sector is clearly organised. I'm talking about producer organisations, or we can talk about economic circumstances, too. They're examples of success, aren't they? And they're a model to follow, and each time it has to spread to more sectors. Some are more organized, others are less organized, but it is essential and vital that they are organized. I mean, we're working on this line. A score for the fruit and vegetables sector. You know, and I've said it several times, that the department boosted, in the year 2017, the fruit candy action plan 2018-2020. I mean, you can say that here we're going to move on to what was pretty predictable that could happen, huh? , a joint strategy that we were going to agree on at the expense of all the trunks of the chain to, in a way, supplement or overcome the economic difficulties caused by the Rus veto – that this is already seen as problematic to us – on the issue of the imports of fruit, but also because the campaigns never know how they end up. And, obviously, you see, the perfect storm has been campaigning, so very painful. Here, this plan consists of two measures and thirty-two planned actions. And today I can say – we can say – that the department has completed all those close to it. Actually, we can say that the department has done all the more. Is that enough? So we may have to do more. In any case, we have fulfilled those we said we would do. From here, listen, we can all talk again, and we can invent – as I always say – what it takes to help in this case the sweet fruit sector. But it is also necessary to ask for the same commitment in the ministry. And at this moment – at this moment – concrete with short-term measures – with short-term measures. It is a problem that – I repeat and you know it – is complex, it is structural, but it also requires help from the Administration. That's why I announced – I did it on the mark last week..., last week on the mark of..., in Berlin, on the mark of Fruit Logistics – that the department – when I say that we are also taking short, immediate measures, that I think in this we are diligent and fast – a line of credits per circulation, that could reach up to 35,000_euros through the Catalan Institute of Finance and with the assumption of the risk of 80_per_cent, that the department would assume it. That's what we're working on, and I'm pretty sure that in the next few days we'll be able to give it a course. I insist that the solution is not easy. In fact, the solution, of course, will be slow. And it also happens because the sector is easy to do, as I said before. But the department has to be, it has to be captivating and at the side – as it cannot be otherwise – of the sector. Require the involvement of all administrations. We won't do it. In the same way that we do, as in the department – as in the department – we will not get out of it either, because the area of the page calls it absolutely all and each – even though it did not seem to us – of the departments of this government. We are at the side of the sector, repeat, and also at the side of mobilizations. The problem that our country is experiencing at this time is not unique. That's to say, most of the territories of the State suffer from it. It's too... depopulation is obviously a concern for the whole continent. But let's say we can make it an opportunity, too. And now I'll be very distressed. That is to say, the focus at these times, the institutional focus and the media focus, at least today, at least this week, points to the primary sector. It's true – and we've talked to you and other Agriculture Committee spokespersons – that every time we focus on it, it's because things aren't right. Not because they applaud us and because we produce the best food in the world, so to speak. That this is hard enough. But in the society in which we live we are already used to that is never happy about when things go well. Usually you always come to the pedestal when things usually lie down in disaster. But in any case, the focus, at this media and institutional moment, is in our sector. Now we're going out on a daily basis, and we're not just going out on a daily basis, say, which is usually already about our sector, but we're going out on a generalist daily basis, huh? So we take advantage of this opportunity to make our sector viable and also its needs. Let's give it a chance. But here we need the complicity of everyone and everyone. It serves us because citizenship is conscious, too, about our pages, pages, ramaders, ramaders, fishers and fishermen. And because it's self-aware that it's obvious – that it's obvious, and it's not asking too much – that they and they can earn a decent living. We've got other sectors in crisis, huh? And if you'll allow me, on the second side I'll talk more about the Land of the Ebre and I can even talk about the Citrics Action Plan, because there we were, too. Well, it seems like it's starting to open a little light, but in any case, I insist, it's a problem that we're seeing, that we haven't done a thing, as it can't be otherwise. That I also know that I count on the complicity of all, I mean, of all the parties represented in this chamber, and now we need help from the other administrations too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] For the reply there is now the word, again, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.30.0	Well, I hope that in the second round I can clarify a little bit about the apple snail that I asked you exactly, if there has been a change in strategy, if there has been an assessment of the..., of the measures that have been taken so far... apart from the critics, which has also been an interesting point to explain. As far as the coordination of administrations is concerned, there is full agreement. I believe that we must demand the involvement of all the administrations, but also of all the departments of this administration. And the words have made me very graceful" I would not want to be distressed; for I invite him to be so, because perhaps it is what is needed. Because so far the action has been a bit discreet. Therefore, I encourage you to really be bold and implement policies that really get the sector out of where you are. And I'm still with the Delta. If the panorama of the Delta wasn't already complex enough, we come with the drunken Gloria. And before Gloria we had the great forest fire of the Ribera. After the fire, aid was given to those affected and – if I am not misinformed – some EUR 400 and a peak of EUR 1 000 have recently begun to be paid. And I have a lot of questions about this fire, for example. What have we learned? Do we know if the aid has been effective? What if they've been used for something? If the perceptors are satisfied? , or whether there have been victims who have been able to receive aid? We know the causes of the fire, but do we know why it affected such a large surface? Or why didn't he come to Portugal? Why did he stop? What should we do to prevent a fire like this from happening again? Is it just prevention or should we plan for proper forest management? In 2020, are we going to see government measures for sustainable forest management, which is economically viable for forest owners, but not in places where it is very easy to make wood and make a living with it... but in places that are more difficult to exploit? Are exploitation models that value forest biomass for energy being explored? Anyway, pleased to hear the proposals you have, and seek our support... our group's support for this. And I'm going back to Gloria but I'm not going after the Jew. We can't blame Gloria for everything that happens in the Delta, but it doesn't help either the decline of the population, the flight of young people, or the price, the theme of Gloria. And now it's time to value damages, establish aid... I know that 11 million of the contingency fund has been earmarked, which is not bad, but we have to prepare ourselves for tomorrow, because what happens if another comes and we have not remade? Everything in the air again? And here comes the consensus table. I was also in Sant Jaume d'Enveja, you, Councillor Jordà, and also Councillor Calvet, and territorially you have done your homework, and you have submitted a very studied, and above all very consensual, work proposal on what to do and what not to do in the Delta. And we touch again on issues that can escape from the Department of Agriculture, but also from the Generalitat itself. The case is that, if done or stopped, it will affect the very existence of many hectares of rice cultivation and much of the production of mussels and other bivalves. And this is the competence of your department. That's why I'm asking you again. What will your counsel specifically do to advance this project? How is this management plan that the Delta is demanding to be involved in this project, Counselor Jordà? Are you going to press your Government to truly engage in protecting the Delta with this master plan? Just like the Department of Agriculture, Territory, or Costas; I'd like to know how it's going to get involved. And, finally, I want to make a small summary of the Ribera fire, which we can draw the conclusions that we have to increase forest management and fire prevention; the Francoli floods in the Conca, which have also led us to the conclusion that we have to have the vegetation of our ravines cleaner and less occupied flood zones, and the temporary Gloria in the Delta, which has also been damaged in Ter and Tordera, I do not want to forget. That as a conclusion is that there is a master plan that would have to be pushed to protect the Delta. Doesn't it sound like nature is talking to us lately? Counselor Jordà, why don't we listen to him? But for now, answer my questions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now has the word the counselor for the final reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.32.0	Well, we did if we had time, because you think, Mr. Dominguez, that I'm talking about a lot of things that aren't exclusive to this department and that a servant would already like it, huh? But in any case it's not the fact. Let's focus a little bit on the Ebre Lands. What's he doing to the citrus, huh? , we presented the past October – I remember it was a disastrous campaign, that of the past year, and then we were going to be there – we presented a plan of action of the citrus trees, in this case 2020-2022, which had four axes of action; each of them contemplated different measures and actions. That's where the sector started organizing itself, and actually at these moments, huh? , there is a help for the producers, precisely because they pull into an economic circumscription to strengthen the sector before the challenges of the future. We're on it. For what you do to aquaculture, man, miri, here we go a step ahead, too, huh? , because if I'm not mistaken, more than two years ago, because the Director General of Fisheries and Maritime Affairs of the department, say so, when a servant took the turn of being a counselor of this department, she was already working on this, which is the Delta Cogestory Table. That already exists, huh? , and it has several objectives, but to define some, therefore, the main objective is to develop a co-management model adapted to Delta basins and which obviously helps the production of aquaculture. And that's done, I repeat, two years ago and it works, huh? Plus it's a model of success, beyond what we've found and what's happened at these moments. The subject of the cargoman poma – that I didn't know you were an insistent person to respect – : we worry – we worry –, and you're right, eh? You know there was a group – it's still there – ad hoc that it's working there, there was this assumption, and it just happened, huh? And it's just... Miri, the week before the temporary Gloria, also a servant was gathered with the communities of rulers, the one on the right and the one on the left, to address different problems. One of them was how we would continue..., or whether the department would continue to be on the side, obviously, of the sector and the governing communities. And there we were, obviously, yes, huh? In the assumption that's already there; that's to say, we'll continue to help in the same proportion, huh? And also analyzing, so, what are the results, that we obviously didn't eliminate it, but it's obvious that everything that went has also served, if not, to dampen – let me say so – this plague. Theme of Glory: So, you see, we're so lucky, this department that we should first fix everything, which turns out that in the middle of the year we've had the fire of the Jew, we've had the help of the Garrigues and the Conca and, moreover, we've had this time of the Glory. So, I said, if I'm not mistaken, with the burning of the Jewish Lands, I said, "Almenys this department and a servant we'll put red one time for this topic. Why didn't you go and put yourself in red, huh? Or if it goes, I don't know; I personally and the company and company in the department don't like it. There was no protocol, there was no direct protocol – I'm talking about the department, huh? – in any case, to cope with the emergence of these characteristics. And there we went to work. And we certainly did things that weren't right, and we had to adjust them to reality. And that's why we've got the farm organizations, the pages, we've listened, we've sat down and there we've designed... And what we designed there..., which, by the way, all this help we've already made effective at the end of the generation, and you'll say to me, "Home, you've been through almost six months. Okay, that's never gonna happen again – it's never gonna happen again. It's six months, huh? You could talk about a lot of help that has been promised – that has been promised – at the level of the Spanish State that still today, after years, has not been recovered. But, anyway, we'd always have to stick to the good ones. In this case, we have already approved with extreme diligence, in a week of difference, these 11_millions of the contingency plan, and, moreover, there is a technical table that is only, only, obviously, focused on the Lands of the Hebrews. There's more, huh? But one to the Lands of the Hebrews. In short, I'm going back to insist, huh? There's no turning point: our pages and pages must be able to make a living, this must be viable, because being paid or being paged or being a pastor or being a pastor or being a fisherman and a fisherman, which is the case that also occupied us, is for us to respect life, eh? And I understand that for you too. And it is obvious that if life is respected and the sea is respected, people are also respected. You don't sound like you're bosses with society, you know, with the country, huh? To respect people, I don't know what we do in a parliament. Therefore, I appeal to the joint responsibility of the citizenry, and also of the political class, to help our pages. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the impact of cartels on the Catalan economy and the Administration of the Generality]] [[300-00233/12]] We now turn to the eighth point of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the impact of cartels on the Catalan economy and the Administration of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. And to expose him, Congresswoman Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.34.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members, Members, Counsellor Bosch... Today we wanted to bring to Parliament a problem of which little is said but which has a great impact on the transparency and the economy of the Administration itself of the Generalitat of Catalonia ; a problem of which we know that neither from its councillor, Counsellor Bosch, nor from any other measure has been taken, despite its gravity. We imagine, counselor, that at this point you know your government, and so do you, what is a cartel and the negative effects. But, as neither the Government nor you are doing anything about it, perhaps I am not starting this intervention by recalling the Competition Law, a law which defines as a cartel any agreement or practice concluded between two or more competitors the objective of which is to coordinate their practices in order to set purchase and sale prices to be shared between markets and customers, including public tenders. And, as a result of this illegal agreement, a small group of companies controls much of the production or distribution of a market. Business cartels are not limited to obtaining as much profit as possible, but are unlawfully acting in a coordinated way to obtain a profit surplus at the expense of their suppliers or customers, who, without being aware, spend more money than is necessary to purchase products. In short, cartels are an endemic evil of the economy, at all levels. This is precisely why competition policy is one of the fundamental pillars of the European Union since its creation in 1957. Cartels have a direct impact on the Administration without any action being taken to remedy or recover the damage caused. With this interpellation we do not seek to pursue cartels or sanction them. This is already done by the National Competition Commission, the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union or the Catalan Competition Authority. With this interpellation we refer to those cases already detected and sanctioned by the competition authorities, in which it is found that the cartel has been created to the detriment of the Generalitat Administration or has harmed it in some way and, therefore, there is the possibility of taking measures to recover the lost money, money from all Catalans and Catalans. It should be borne in mind that the passive attitude of the Administration to such serious practices as, for example, forming a cartel encourages these practices to be perpetuated, as the penalties of the competition authorities are insufficient if, on the one hand, the injured do not claim the damage and, on the other hand, the companies that are infringing are not expelled from continuing to be hired by the administrations, which, in addition to humiliating the Administration, maintains the disturbance of the market. Counsellor Bosch, why from your Government, who so accustomed to us to complain about the lack of money, does not act against companies that take advantage of the Administration to obtain an illicit profit at your expense, that is, at the expense of all Catalans and Catalans? This will not be due to a lack of cases, because there are many cases in which it has not only been found that the Generalitat Administration has been harmed, but also that individuals who have also been victims have argued before the courts for compensation and obtained it. The first one I'm going to talk to you about is the paper cartel, a cartel of paper manufacturers' companies that distributed the public competitions of the Administration for the purchase of envelopes of electoral processes held since 1977; a cartel that has specifically affected the elections of the Parliament of Catalonia in 1988, 1999, 2006, 2010 and the referendum of the Statute in 2005. This implies that the amount paid by the Generalitat for each of these elections was adulterated upwards and, therefore, once the cartel was discovered, in 2013, the possibility of claiming the surcharge paid, plus the corresponding interest, which would certainly give us a billion dollar figure. A few months ago, in a written question, we asked him whether he had any record of this circumstance, whether he planned to take action for compensation against the cartel, to claim the financial damage suffered, and we also asked him about the actions of the Government to avoid being victims of cartel actions in public tenders. And the answers to these three questions came to be that since the Government of the Generalitat had no record of these circumstances. I'm also going to tell you about the cartel of truck manufacturers, another of the big cartels that have affected the Generalitat. The truck cartel is nothing more than an agreement reached by the six most important truck manufacturers at European level to set the price of trucks over six tonnes and delay compliance with the emission regulations; a cartel that was sanctioned by the European Commission with a fine of about 3,000 million euros and affecting all trucks sold from 1997 to 2011, which has caused thousands of self-employed people and companies to claim compensation on the basis of 10 and 15 percent of the truck purchase price plus interest, meaning that, in a truck for which 70,000 euros were paid, the claim would be between 7,000 and 10,500 euros per truck plus interest. Well, just considering that 50_per_cent of the seven hundred vehicles that were part of the Generalitat fire department in 2013 were trucks of more than six tonnes purchased between 1997 and 2011, the damage suffered in an initial estimate would range from 1,700,000 to 2,600,000_euros, plus interest. Another case in which we are also not aware that nothing has been done on the part of the Government, its Government. Or I'll give you another example: the weather service cartel. This is quite recent, specifically a few weeks ago. Acco has sanctioned Adasa Sistemas and MCV companies after distributing the market for public tenders for the provision of the service relating to the installation, maintenance and supply of radar parts and weather stations of the Meteorological Service of Catalonia from 2011 to 2019. This is a perfect example of how a cartel is created to benefit specific companies at the expense of the public purses, since, as Acco himself says in the sanctioning resolution itself – and I will read it textually – "this restrictive practice of competition benefits only the offending companies, which manage to increase their well-being to the detriment, in particular, of the public body which has called the tenders studied, which ends up paying higher prices for the services it contracts and, by extension, to the detriment of public budgets. In addition, this is a particularly serious case, since in this case the cartel was made possible thanks to the decisive role, as facilitator, of the director of the Meteorology Service of Catalonia, in those years Mr. Oriol Puig Godes, currently advisor to the Department of Territory ; which has also been sanctioned by the Acco, Mr. Oriol Puig, as instigator of the cartel. Mr. Counsellor, are you and the Government you represent in a position to ensure that you have not suffered any harm from actions contrary to the competition of any cartel? And, therefore, is it in a position to ensure that no euro of the public money of the Generalitat de Catalunya has increased the illicit profits obtained as a result of anti-competitive practices, which have been sanctioned by the competition authorities? And if in any of the cases of the answers you give me, if it were positive, what does your Government intend to do to prevent this from happening again and for the Generalitat's arks to be compensated? Will you allow the claims to be prescribed? Do you not believe that political leaders who do nothing to avoid it would have to have responsibilities, not only political but also economic ones? Because we think so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, Councillor Alfred Bosch has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.36.0	Good morning, President; good morning, Congresswoman López Fernández. We appreciate your intervention, because it allows us to fill in a topic that, as you say, is of the utmost importance. I would like to refer, first of all, to the case of the paper envelope distribution cartel, which has quoted it to me, and making it clear that I am responding, as the Transparency Advisor, for some parties that are remunerated – in the last of the contrasts – in 2010. I mean, we're talking about a couple of practices a couple of years ago. And, indeed, in 2013 the National Competition Market Commission, which declares accredited the existence of this cartel for the distribution of paper envelopes, among other things for electoral processes, therefore..., and having affected more than two hundred customers, among the various administrations, is taking place. It takes place from the National Competition Market Commission, for a number of reasons, which I insist, in the last of the contrasts, is paid back two years ago and which, moreover, have developed, say, between the first transition and this year, it is said, from 1977 to 2010. Therefore, it is a fact that, in any case, therefore, it is quite prior to the very existence of the council that I direct, not of myself, as a councillor, but of the existence of the councillor. The companies involved in the case of the paper cartel were sanctioned with 44_millions, as you know, in a resolution that, moreover, opens the way to the affected ones so as to make claims for the damages and damages correspondents. In the case of the Government of Catalonia, it is not clear that this route is open. And what we are doing is: with the Legal Council of the Government of the Generality and also with a new area of creation that you know, within the Department of Economics, we have demanded that this be clarified and that it be discovered if effectively it is still open this way for complaints. Because the first one upstairs is that he's already prescribed this possibility. But we do not give ourselves for satisfaction and insist that it be clarified if, as you say, this prescription, therefore, is not such a prescription. Therefore, I assure you that we are a student. In the case of Bombers and also the Meteorological Service, huh? In this case, therefore, there have also been imposed sanctions and we are also studying the corresponding complaints, of course. Therefore, you are right and we share what you are saying. This is a hard practice, a practice of oligopolies, which harms the administrations and all those who, somehow, have had to pay these overpriced collectively fixed for the cartels. And we're all compromised that doesn't repeat these situations. Because the existence of cartels to set prices is a direct attack on our citizens, on the contributions made by citizens and citizens in the form of contributions to public error. And, therefore, we have to face up to all the odds. What have we done to ensure a public and transparent contract in this case, for example, that you cited electoral processes? So, for example, now the contracts of the official models of the electoral processes are always encouraging the publication of contests and the absolutely transparent award of contracts, in a clear and transparent way. 2017 – and, therefore, we are talking about relatively recent developments – we also pushed for an absolutely transparent framework agreement for expenditure in electoral processes, which obviously, therefore, contemplates prices and also purchases of envelopes. We are, therefore, in these moments, totally transparent in public contracts and still more so. Things have been done, obviously things have been done, and the publication in open data and transparency that is now being applied will help decisively to fight any cartel or agreement expected at the time of setting prices between various companies. You say we're not doing anything against the cartels. So forgive me, it's not true – it's not true. I can admit that what happened a few years ago can't happen again. And that we need to investigate, and that we need to know how, if there's any way open to complaint, as we need to pull it forward. Now, we're doing things, and you know them, more so. The damage recovery system, which is a common practice for the private sector, but for public administrations, therefore, it is not so common, and it has to be much more; now we are starting, we are starting because, as from the 2014 directive, Directive 104 of the European Union, to which I seem to have made you allusion and also the rule, in the Kingdom of Spain, transposing this directive, the Royal Decree 9 of the year 2017, therefore, so facilitate it. And as the government, we don't want to be left out of it, because we're talking about the defense of money, the contributions of taxpayers. The Generality has been the first – the first –, the first Administration of the State, to have a specific unit in charge of advising and carrying out the follow-up of the rescue expeditions where the Generality has been damaged, a unit that acts since February 2019. We're talking about a school year, aren't we? And you're asking me questions that you've been doing for years, or many years, aren't you? , since 1977, that were occurring. So, recently, yes, okay, recently, but we're putting the batteries down very quickly. The Area of Competition and Regulation, which is within the General Directorate of Economic Promotion, Competition and Regulation, the Department of Economy, eh? , of the Vice-President of Economy and History, is specifically responsible, as one of its important functions, for advising departments in the claim of damages caused by illegal actions within which the market and competition is. For now... also to illustrate that we're doing things, huh? When he says we don't do anything, then we're not doing it. CatSalut, for example, has already claimed damages in relation to the cartel of companies manufacturing adult bowls. This complaint has already been made. And they're also studying two more complaints, huh? , that surely..., goes, it is possible that it is pulled forward, one against the sector finance with regard to a cartel for specific financing products named « swaps, which means intercanvi o « permutos financiers. And that's... so here's already acting to see if we can make this complaint. On the other hand, therefore, it is also looking at how we can claim in the bidding of the electrification maintenance of the train lines. This too, therefore, is another land in which we believe that there are possibilities for complaint on the part of the Public Administration. Now, the year 2020, when the Generality is aware of possible irregularities, illegal actions or practical ills affecting the general interest or public error, is taking place. That's how we did it, and that's how we're going to do it. Therefore, we act, and as long as we act! Mrs López Fernández, one thing is that you have told me that in the past things have not been done well– we can agree, they have not been done well–; another thing is that we are not now acting or that we are not now taking all those possible measures, from, therefore, these novelties, from these innovations of the Administration that commented on it, so as to act fully against these practical evils. Yes, we're doing it, and we're doing it, we're continuing to do it. And we'd be more grateful than you, as a fan, also contribute, helping us and making your contributions so that this work, with the collaboration, therefore, of all the political forces, because it's something that affects us all, and all the social workers, because it's something that affects us all..., all these practical evils, huh? , they end once and for all, which is never repeated again in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the reply, Congresswoman Yolanda López has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.38.0	Thank you, Vice President. Look, Counsellor Bosch, this inquiry is not theoretically focused, nor does it seek a grandiose statement from the government, indeed; we do not seek that you come to promise great promises in this matter and then remain in wet paper. Let me just say what he said..., is that we were outraged when he did..., but very few weeks ago, we asked him... – that in principle we sent him to the Department of Justice and the Government itself sent him to his department –, we asked him about the cases and they had no record or thought to make the claim because, as they were not aware, they could not make a claim for something that was not known. You come to me here and you're telling me that yes, that they are making claims. I point it out and I'm going to ask for the documentation, too, written. And there are now three weeks left, from here to the next plenary session; we can..., you can bring and you can inform us of more information. It is, of course, that you in writing told us that you did not know it even though there is a sanctioning resolution, which is public, which even shows that specific electoral processes have been affected. And it is true, but until 2013; but it is true that the same thing that was discovered in 2013, for the..., was discovered for everyone. And those individuals have been claiming, they're even claiming. And the Generalitat provided documentation, i.e.... that's why I'm telling you, it turned out to be very..., we were surprised by your response when in the same resolution you say that the Generalitat provided documentation. Someone had to know, from here. And his department's answer was that they didn't know. Okay. And, look, if we read the resolution, it is very concrete: the employers involved, by altering the price of paper envelopes, even laughed at the administration. It turns out to us, when we read the resolution..., almost the whole resolution goes against the Administration..., that the cartels went for the Administration. They themselves called themselves "the common punch or "the club", a fact which demonstrates the contempt and impunity with which a cartel operated, which for thirty years worked at the expense of public budgets. I am not telling you that you are guilty, I have already told you that we do not come for that; that is, that there has not been a resolution. In addition, it is especially relevant to hire..., as in the lawsuits that the cartel is receiving from private companies also damaged by this cartel..., its officials claim in their defense that, at last, the dye – and he quotes it like this – was not mounted to harm private companies, but that their objective was public tenders. That is, the resolution is extremely serious for the Generalitat. And it is that we have not only not claimed the damage, but that, despite the cartel sanction, we continue to hire the role in the electoral processes of the same companies of the common punch. Therefore, counselor, when from En Comú we can ask you specifically about this flagrant illegality, about what actions you intend to take, we find it intolerable that you would answer us that you have no record of this circumstance, and I will read in text what you replied to me: "And, therefore, the lack of record of possible irregularities of unlawful action or bad practices that face the general interest, you do not plan to initiate relevant legal actions. And when you tell me from your government..., that for us it is very important, that it is true, that from the government the necessary mechanisms are established so that within the public institutions they do not allow themselves to have facilitators like Mr Oriol Puig, who I have already told you, who is now acting as advisor to the Department of Territory. Catalonia does not deserve to be denigrated by the institutions, Catalonia does not deserve to be turned around by the Government, turning its backs while companies and facilitators take public money to full hands. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.39.0	To finish now has the word, again, the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.40.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman López Fernández, some pointing. Mr Oriol Puig is not an advisor, Mr Oriol Puig is a public administration official, and therefore he will understand that the procedures must be the right ones, right? Look, I'm a professional historian, but today we didn't come here to make history, not to talk about what happened a year ago or more than forty years ago since 1977. We've come... [[Funnel veils]] – effectively, we agree – we have come to talk about what happens today, what we can do today, and how we can solve inherited situations, because it is never reproduced more. And I seem to have tried to explain what we're doing, and we're doing a lot. For what it does to the complaint about..., to the claim of damages on the paper envelope cartel– among other things, used in electoral processes–, I already tell you that we are insisting– we are insisting– because the Legal Counsel corroborates us if effectively we are still in time to make this claim. Because we have external sources – such as you, for example – that tell us that until the month of April this is possible. What you tell us Legal Counsel and what you tell us also the Area of Competition in the Department of Economics, so far, has been something else. So we're insisting because we're clarifying this, and actually, if we're still in time to complain, we'll do it, okay? Later, he also commented on some questions about not acting sufficiently in the present against these practical ones. And I repeat, it seems to me that yes, we are doing many things. Among other things, for example, we are collaborating with the Barcelona Assembly with an arrangement to set up one hundred_per_cent anonymous assets, because these practices are sometimes not so easy to avoid, because they are agreements between private companies more than the administrations, but they can harm the administrations, so these complaints from people who can know the sector but do not make a formal complaint, because as you know, then the defendant ends up knowing who denounced him: his address, his phone..., and identifies him. And in turn, these anonymous goods, in which we are collaborating with the Xnet platform and also with the Barcelona Assembly to sign a deal, share important experiences in this field and protect the alerters. Will this avoid practical evils? Home, it will make them much harder, because there will be the possibility of always alerting; whenever the alerters are therefore considered – because they can be found there, they can be considered – as protected. And this protection for what it does to information that detects practical evils is basic; it's basic to help fight it. It is also basic the civic empowerment, which is a good tool, and also the participatory networks, such as the Decidim network that pushed the Barcelona Assembly, and therefore they must be believed with this. We will also share this, and so we want to extend it to all the municipalities of Catalonia. Look, thanks to all these tools and those that I mentioned before: the creation of a unit in the Department of Economy to facilitate complaints and fight against cartel practices, all of which are decided, decisive, but recent actions. What I can tell you is that four years ago – not in fact, thirty years ago, nor forty years ago – four years ago it was almost impossible to detect oscillations in the prices agreed between companies and awarded to suppliers. Gairebé was impossible to detect. Today, by making a couple of clicks on a screen, you can detect prices, if it's overwritten, you can calculate how it's done, and you can estimate whether the set of awards for certain prices, so they indicate an overprice, and therefore, from these estimates it's much easier to act. Today all these things can easily be detected when four years ago it was almost impossible. And that's why this impunity is also produced. Therefore, listen, we fight against these immoral and unacceptable practices and take it very seriously. It is difficult to eradicate 100_per_cent impropie behaviors from businesses, or from civil society or even from the Administration, because the human condition of times, therefore, has storms. But it is possible to put the maximum prevention and ensure that you have the maximum information, because as more information, it is harder to produce monopolies, oligopolises, or cartel situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on Climate Emergency and New Waste Incineration Projects]] [[300-00234/12]] Next we move on to the new item on the agenda, which is the Government's inquiry into climate emergence and new waste incineration projects, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unit Candidate - Constituent Cree. And to expose it, has the word the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.42.0	Good morning, all of you. Good morning, Counselor. We've talked about it a lot in this plenary, it's a debate that's alive in society. We live in a context of difficult climate emergence and we all know perfectly well that we need to take measures from our radical and courageous point of view. A crisis that has prompted hundreds of young people to denounce the inopportunity of institutions and the political class to fight climate change, desertion, large forest fires, extreme meteorological phenomena or environmental pollution and the loss of diversity on the planet. The consolidation of capitalism at the international level has historically needed to intensify the exploitation of both working classes and natural resources to maintain economic growth. Infinite economic growth, consumption of more and more natural benefits, of more non-renewable energies, of matter, generating almost infinite amounts of waste. We insist – and you know it perfectly – that this will of infinite growth causes us to generate an almost infinite amount of residue. And we are of the opinion that it is not opportune, as it is customary to do from public institutions, to exclusively hold citizens or consumers responsible, as it could also be said. We, Counselor, are asking him a question today – and we spent the whole day talking about responsibility – so we're asking him this question for responsibility. And for a matter of urgency. We want to talk to him about residues and incineration; about cremating rubble, ultimately. And we did it to you as a Counsellor of Territories and Environment, but this inquiry could be made to Councillor Vergés, of Salut, or we could be made to the Councillor of Agriculture, because the question of incineration and residues affects life in a transversal way. We ask you this question, as you can imagine, for the concern about the intention to incinerate residues in the municipality of Cercs, in Bergedà, and June, in the Garrigues. Concern and surprise at the fact that the comings and comings have met two incineration projects in their communities in this climate-emergency context with which my inquiry began. We believe that these projects are totally incompatible with the need to combat climate change. Two projects that would join existing public-management incinerators in Sant Adrià del Besòs, in Campdorà, in Riu Clar, in Mataró, Son Reus and Andorra la Vella. To the list add the plant of hazardous residues of Constantí, to the Tarragonès, and the furnaces of the company Solvay de Martorell where is PVC residue creams. From more than a decade ago, to more, cement companies: Bunyol, in the case of the Valencia Country, and Montcada and Reixac to the West Valley, Sant Vicenç dels Horts to the Lower Llobregat, Santa Margarida and the Monks to the Upper Penedès, and Alcanar to the Montsia, in the case of Catalonia, have seen in the brush a trading opportunity; stop buying natural gas as fuel and replace it with residues. It's a perfect deal. It's... as I would say, colloquially, it's the end of the business. [[The joker laughs.]] Thank you, Counselor, it's that he's very well thought out from a capitalist perspective: we'll cremate rubble that, in addition, will pay us and we'll get a roundabout deal. Let's go see these projects. June, a project, moreover, at the end of which there is Eduard Cau Barrufet, director of Junts for Catalonia to Puiggròs, a conversion project from the Tracjusa plant, a sewage treatment plant, because it replaces, as I said, the natural gas that scalates and evaporates the water of the purins for fuel derived from residues. Packages of brush of the grey contenter that go to treatment plants, that in accounts of making serve natural gas, that is not the better of the energies, but to the knowledge, what happens to the natural gas when it treats the purins? What does it emit? CO2, you know perfectly well: winternacle effects. But it's that when we cream brush to generate energy what we're doing isn't just passing out winter-effect gases, but, as you know, much more harmful gases to health, gases like dioxins, furans and particles. The fuel, I insist, now will not only come out free but will pay to be able to destroy it in June, in this case, and it will become a cost to be a benefit. And what do we have in Circles? The re-opening of a wound, of a very deep wound to the region of Bergedà: the proposal to convert the thermal power plant into an incinerator. A great cement monster who wants to come back to the purest zombie style. The year 2011 the plant was closed and now the project of incinerator..., certainly, driven by a businessman, Lluís Basiana, who is further investigated for the Jutjat number 1 of Barcelona in a presumed crime of corruption, under the accusation of benefiting irregularly from a subsidy of the Barcelona City Council. That's like the pasty wax. You're the same, we already know that you, when it comes to benefiting entrepreneurs..., you're the same as there's a person who's being investigated for a lawsuit, plus, a couple of a former Union registrar, but well, that's random. So a power plant, a very deep, cement-shaped wound in the region of Bergedà, which wants to reconvert an infrastructure that since we have it there..., so reconvert it into a scavenging cremator. We, of course, think that the incineration of residues cannot be part of the solution to the energy and climate challenges that Catalonia has for two obvious reasons, and it gave it to the principle: because of the difficult impact on human salvation, therefore we consider that this inquiry could also be to the Councillor of Salvation. According to Eduard Rodríguez Farré, professor of the Instituto d'Investigacions Biomédicas de Barcelona, in statements to La Directa, there is enough scientific evidence to show that the incineration of residues has a great impact on the health of the population. And now when you come out and talk to me about the filters, about the great technological capacity we have to avoid the consequences on human salvation, you also ask – and ask it directly – that you explain to us, from your great technical knowledge on the subject: the residues that are generated in these filters that you will talk to me about where you are going to stop? It gave two reasons for human salvation and also for what it does to the emission of CO2 and various gases. Dioxins – I have not spoken before – are the ones that from a sanitary point of view are harder, since we are talking about products that are generated only by emission, products that do not exist to nature and that greatly affect the normal functioning of people's physiology. And one reason: the highly harmful character of ecosystems caused by the first emissions of the whole combustion process, whether of fossil fuels or of materials that today are incinerated, such as plastics, fangs, llots, scrubbers, CDRs, hospital residues, pneumatics outside use, purins, flours, meats, vehicle unpacking residues, toxic components etc. In Berlin, for example, there are protections such as the scoundrel or the cock that would go away in horror. Today and these days, some Members, especially from Junts to Catalonia, have taken a rain, rain, a green link supporting the page. Say, "Save the pages, the pages are life. Do you know what the pages of Berlin and June say? Since June and Torregrossa warn of the high impact of emissions on the sale of the oil and fruit of the region, an important pillar for the region. Joan Noguera, engineer agronomist and manager of Guardiola de Berguedà, what do you say about Circles and its economic activity? "We don't know if there's going to be microtoxins, if all this contamination ends up feeding the cows, ending up absorbing them and ending up eating them and going to the food chain. It's not the same as an animal eating a contamination-free product. Therefore, we ask them frankly, clearly, with the need for responsibility, urgently, not just the councillor, but all the Members present today, and the ones I imagine will also be the day we vote for this young man. We are aware of the need to stop these two projects, not to talk about the need to dismantle and change the paradigm of residues and management of these residues in our country. And we do this because everything is folded, this situation that tries to explain to them, we also know it after the European Union has issued the directive recommending a 40_percent reduction in CO2 emissions in the eurozone joint before 2030, which they are talking about. Therefore, we, the Councillor, believe that they do not fall further into the Catalan countries generating winter-effect gases and dioxins. That's why we want to ask him, you, what do you think, what do you think, about these two projects? You know them. We've asked for them, but we haven't been able to see them in detail yet. He thinks it's coherent to move forward... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, Vice-President – moving forward in the construction and consolidation of these two projects is consistent with the European Union directive recommending a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to answer the question, the advisor of Territories and Sustainability, Damià Calvet, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.44.0	Many thanks, vice president, deputies, deputies. Madam Member, thank you very much for being able to talk about climate emergence and waste incineration. The truth is that in the end I chose not to look at her, because every gesture you made interpreted that I was interested in or not interested in any part of her speech. I am interested in everything you have said, and I am interested in everything that obviously affects the competence of our department. Only one point, when I was whispering when he spoke of the top, was "as said in Pere Sampol, friend of the PSM, to whom I take advantage to give records. I lived seven years in Mallorca and, therefore, reviewed, I say, a situation personally experienced in Catalan Countries, in the Balearic Islands. In any case, you, in all your inquiry, in which you have introduced many important issues, I believe that it is a vector that I will try to clarify, that it is the whole subject related to the mouthpieces, because the residues, in the end, therefore, are managed and, at the last stage of the management, are mouthpieces. And he talked about recommendations from the European Union and, well, there are other recommendations from the European Union about, precisely, the treatment of residues in hatchers. I'll try to bring some data back. In any case, then, with the subsequent dialogue, we deepen some of the themes he has said about salvation and concrete projects. I won't talk about filters, I won't talk about filters. I'll talk about the fact that we're actually on a climate emergency. I would say that the climate emergency, the cry that makes a lot of people, much of our society, to fight climate emergency, does not only ask the administrations and governments; fortunately, it went further, the whole society is asked. I would like to point this out, because he talked about it, the administrations and the political class: the cry that is made by organised civil society and by the climate activism much more than by the administrations and the political class. In fact, this is what we tried to do with the first Catalan Climate Action Summit, to ask the whole society. We may or may not share the model, but it is at this first summit that we chose to do. And I'd like to remember which are the great goals of the fight against climate change, which I often explain. One is the decarbonization of mobility, the other is all that refers to the energy transition, and the third big pot is the circular economy, and precisely the circular economy is why you exposed us to your inquiry. Because, if we look at this later point, in the circular economy, we must be aware that the cornerstone of the European Union's environmental policy – you have asked the European Union – is precisely what the hierarchy of residues and the circular economy package is called. That is why the whole issue of waste, resources, also know how to manage them, hierarchy of waste and circular economy. And this hierarchy is very clear, very clear. And we have not invented it from Catalonia, nor from the Department of Territory and Sustainability, but it is from Europe and marks the next. In the first place, he warned. In the first place, it prevented the generation of residues. Secondly, preparation for reuse. Thirdly, material valuation – which I will now mention – is the most substantial part of our waste management policy. It speaks, in fourth place, of other forms of valuation, including energy valuation. That is not what this Councillor, neither the Department of Territories nor the Government of the Generality, says the European Directive on the hierarchy of residuals and circular economy package. In fourth place, other forms of valuation, including energy valuation. And lastly – and this is the vector that you have forgotten in your inquiry – the deposition in the mouthpiece; when the other four have already been exhausted, when the other four, the first four that I have mentioned, have already been exhausted, these remains go to the mouthpiece. And I would like to remind you that the European Union, which has actually set this goal of reducing gases with winter effects to which you refer, has also set other objectives. For example, an important objective, the European Union has fixed that 2035 – the day before, in terms of governance – only 10_percent of the residues that generate vagina at the mouth. A 10_per_cent, in 2035, a 10_per_cent. And, therefore, this is a figure that we too must complete and we must complete taking into account precisely the hierarchy of waste management that marks the same European Union. Therefore, in this list it is clear that the European hierarchy, I insist, not of this councillor, nor of the Department of Territories, nor of the Government of the Generality, the worst option is that of controlled deposit. And with this order of priorities, from Europe we are told that energy value is preferable to drinkers. Perhaps to someone the inconvenience that we face this debate, but to this councilman does not bother or do it for and, precisely, if we mark it the European hierarchy and have the percentages of destination-buyer that we have, not only ourselves but the majority of European countries and regions – regions in terms of international language – so we have to face it. It is impossible to face a serious debate about energy valuation, if we do not take into account this vector of what goes to the shutters. We insist, first, to prevent and after, to reuse, material valorization and forms of valorization, including the valorization energy production, arrangement in shutter. Reducing the uptake of biodegradable waste is especially urgent from a climate perspective, especially urgent, as we are in this context of emergence and waste management is the major emissions generator. This is the key concept: the major emission generator, the shutters. It is important to explain to us well in this topic, including, to do pedagogy of this topic among all. You too, from your status as a Member and from your parliamentary group, use of abocadors contributes to a higher greenhouse gas emission than if we opt for material and energy valorization processes that are coordinated and complementary. The one that generates the most gasses of winternacle effect are the mouthpieces. And more, half, that's much worse than CO2. Therefore, what we need to avoid is the deposit and not the energy value, which is what you ask me directly. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that if we want to talk about climate emergency, seriously, its inquiry as a title has first, in the climate emergency context, the incineration themes, it should be very clear that if we can combine high recycling indexes and energy valorization, we could do that everything that refers to resources or residues, in question of contributing to winter-effect gases, including negative, including negative. The model we drive from Catalonia, through Precat planning, which is aligned again, obviously, with what Europe brands, has to meet the objectives of the 65_per_cent recycling..., recycling and preparation for reuse. This means that we have to have selective collection taxes between 70 and 75_per_cent. In our country, 2018 data that we have now closed, we are approximately 40_per_cent. Therefore, we have work to do and 35_percent of these go to the mouth and 19_per_percent to energy valorization. It's already happened. You have made a list of some of these energy recovery facilities, and therefore this is an element that we already have in the country at these times, in one of the four plants managed by consortia, not by the Government of the Generality. I have spoken thus of public management, in general, the government of the Generality is not there; Metropolitan Area, which is that of Eco4, that of Mataró; that of Girona, which is currently closed; that of Tarragona, Sirusa, is called Sirusa; and that of Sant Adrià de Besòs, the plant of Tersa. It is important to note that the Government does not manage these plants, it authorizes them, as with any other industrial facility, with any other industrial facility, obviously controlling the proper functioning. I return to the data I gave them a while ago: from now on, only fifteen years ago, 2035, the maximum amount of residue and scrap and treatment that can enter the controlled deposits will not exceed 10_percent of the generated residues. And that means, as has already happened..., it is happening in Europe, that there has to be a progressive shutdown of this type of installation. It will be necessary that there are treatment alternatives and energy recovery can be a more useful tool in line with the objectives of the European Union, in order to reduce precisely the controlled deposits and reduce – again to insist that you talk about climate-emergency – gases with winter effects. Let's talk about what's going on in Europe. Precisely those countries with more advanced environmental policies, which also have high recycling rates, are those that have a greater capacity for energy recovery: Sweden, Denmark, Germany, France, Netherlands, Sweden, Italy – I have said twice, Sweden – the United Kingdom, represent three_quarters of the energy recovery capacity of the European Union. There are countries with pounds per capita, 591, 587 pounds per capita. Countries, I insist, with advanced environmental policies, that what they do is above all to age more for material valorization and to reduce what goes to mouths. Catalonia is a hundred, a hundred kilos per capita. I, the countries that I want to assemble are the ones that have clear these hierarchies and apply the best environmental policies available. And it must also be borne in mind that, on many occasions, the energy production that was going on from this use also results in the fight against climate change because it is no longer using fossil fuels. On the second part of the intervention, if I may be a Member, we will talk about health and these concrete projects that you have named, but in this first I believe it was also important to give knowledge of what the hierarchy of residues represents to the European Union. Thank you, Vice-President, for the generosity of the seven-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the reply, the questioner has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.46.0	Counselor, I already have a few questions to ask you and we have already talked, debated on various occasions, and it is obvious that we have very different models, but I am still passionate about the ability to talk a lot and not to answer the concrete questions that are asked. You said it yourself, on the second hand you'll answer me what I'm asking you. Thanks for the lecture on hierarchy in the management of residues. Thank you for enlightening us all with your acquaintances, but he did not talk about what the title of the inquiry says and to which I have devoted all the two minutes of my inquiry to talk, which is about the Circle Incineration Project, to the Berlin, and about the June Incineration Project. So, I insist, and I will not spend much time trying to counter his arguments, because we start from a very different starting point, which is that I have a very clear conception that climate emergence is not a problem that has fallen from the cell; it is not God "our Lord, who has condemned us for sinners. No, climate emergence has very concrete causes and responsibilities – very concrete – and a system: the capitalist. And, therefore, how we start from very different points of view... I feel very specific about it; I asked him: "Do you think it is coherent to pull forward the projects of Circles and June, adding more to the Catalan countries than to cremate" bassura? Do you think it is consistent with the directive of the European Union for the reduction of CO2 and gas with winternacle effects? It is easy, the answer: « yes or « no. So what I'm doing is trying to interpret his exposure. And what he did basically is make a defense, well-argued from his ideological point of view, a very well-argued defense about energy value, so much about incineration as a tool to produce energy, and a very clear defense of the businesses and projects that they want to pull forward. You know better than that I who handled the waste in Catalonia is obsolete. And he also knows that his department has started the work and public consultation ahead of the preparation of the draft of the new residue prevention law. Honestly, if I've been in his place, I've come out to talk about this, I've come out to talk about the zero residue object; that I want to reduce the generation of residues, that I want to eliminate any product that is not recyclable and that, therefore, I can't get into the market of the circular economy. Catalonia is at a 20_percent of the circular economy, very far from reaching the goal that would please us, very far – far far – to find solutions to the questions we have ahead. After twenty-five years of this law, 34 percent of the residue is recycled and we go, in the later years, even worse: the volume of residue has increased by 13,5. We consider that we have a problem, a problem of management and generation of residues; that there are some responsible, that are the producers who benefit from generating these residues. Therefore, there must be consequences and, therefore, who generates these residues must be able to pay. And we believe that in order to move towards a zero-residue society, the application of new regulations is necessary, effective instruments that can reduce waste and associated environmental and health impacts and, above all, promote net production and responsible consumption. The facility dedicated to incineration, is done to Cercs or is done to June or wherever it is, is contrary to all European and global directives around the climate emergency, because any process that is dedicated to cremating remains or fossil fuels generates CO2 emissions, and this increases the winter effect, if you look where you look. So, what you're coming to me to say is that it's like a lesser evil, that the hierarchy of the European Union... that, well... we don't want this ambition. We're ambitious, we don't want any dyes, we don't want to continue generating gases with winter effects and, above all, we don't want to culminate and kill the expectations of territories that they have in the situation where they are, of people in a situation of depopulation, people that have a lot of difficulty to pull forward, we don't want to plant them two new fireplaces in their municipalities. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, this young man knows perfectly well that he will turn into a petition to all of you – and now I finish, Vice President – to his department and to all of the deputies and deputies to make an automatic moratorium on any incinerator while we don't have the law of zero residue in Catalonia, which you learn to be just as worthy as what happened to the Balearic Islands. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. The word has the counselor for the final reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.48.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, Councilwoman... MP, it's not true – it's not true – what you're saying is not true. Energy valuation does not contradict European directives. It is not true, because there are other European directives that need to be taken into account; among others, that of the reduction of catcher residues, 2035, 10_per_cent. And that needs management. And that needs advanced management, which we've been doing in Catalonia for a long time. I can't accept you saying we're doing an obsolete residue management. In Catalonia we have an agency that is model, not only because it does a good management in Catalonia, but also because it exports its model internationally. And we need to renew the legislation, it would only be missing; and we have explained it here, including questions from the group of commons regarding this new law of residue-resources. And it is a law in which we must introduce new concepts; among other things, all these new European directives or climate issues. But we are renewing the legislation does not mean that it is currently managed through the agency of Residus, a state structure, remains obsolete. On the contrary, it is a model management, that they copy us and try, therefore, to know it in depth other countries of the world. I said that I would talk about salvation, just to say that we have, therefore, constituted a commission for the study of the effects of the quality of the air and the acoustic and electromagnetic intakes on the health and the environment to Catalonia, of which also forms part the Department of Health ; also other institutions, such as the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. And we analyze the possible impact on health and the environment, the coordination and impulse of related actions and studies, the dissemination of studies on the possible impact on health and the environment of everything that represents dioxins, particles, furans... And we have, for example, a lot developed, and specifically around Tarragona, and also around Area 40, which is the area of the metropolitan area with the most complexity with reference to emissions. Remember also, in the past, that the main aspect about health – contamination of the air, dioxins, furans, etc. – is faster the traffic – therefore, the mobility, decarbonization of the mobility – that not the waste management, the incinerators, that you speak. Specifically, in the metropolitan area we have Tersa; it is not the one that brings the most contaminating conditions to the area we have in the metropolitan area. On the contrary, the traffic is faster, and that is why we insist on both mobility management and public transport. And to insist that we are at these moments, therefore, bringing forward this new legislation and observing with great attention what are the hierarchies that mark us the European Union, in order to be able to make an even more precise management. But above all the main objective is this reduction of the amount of residue that goes to the mouthpieces, that you leave it to them. If he leaves it, he leaves it and leaves it, and forgives the expression, with all frankness: he cheats on me, leaving her. Why, if we have this 2035-10_per_cent limit, how do we do it? We need to increase material value. Therefore, you accuse me that I do not answer him according to what part of his intervention in the first one, because I had, in my first intervention, to add clarity, to add, if I allow myself, even pedagogy, and you, seeing that there is a limitation 2035-10_per_cent in mouthpieces, simply traps me. And I ask you that, if you want us to face a serious debate about the waste management in Catalonia, this vector, do not forget it. You ask for a moratorium; I also want to refer to it. Environmental regulations do not provide for this possibility, it is different from urban regulations. The Services Directive, transposed into Law 17/2009, on free access to services and their exercise..., if a company presents a project, any company, we, as the administration, cannot deny its processing. And that's what we're doing. It's what we're doing, for example, to Circles, where a few private individuals have entered a project that we're at these times evaluating under the Service Directive. The first thing we will have to evaluate, clearly, is if you have what is called "documentary sufficiency, because we have not even arrived here. Talk about project... including sometimes it seems like it's a government-driven project. It's a project that drives a few private individuals, that gets us through the Service Directive. We're assessing his sufficiency, and we'll see whether he's sufficiency or not. But if I had it, then, obviously, all the evaluation, all the ordinary processing, which also includes all the public information and public hearings, where everyone could say theirs. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I want to tell you that the industrial waste incineration model is not in line with what this government wants – I answer it with more concreteness even if you ask me. Because we think, and so we're implementing, that the main thing in managing industrial waste is, first of all, material valuation; it's the line that we're advancing. And now we have to keep this limit very clear – and I finish, President – of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.49.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.50.0	...percentage that goes to mouthpieces. This one can't be obviated. And I ask him that in his young man I didn't hear it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee for the safety of the petrochemical sector]] [[252-00024/12]] We continue to move on to item 3 of the agenda, which is the Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a petrochemical safety committee. And, given that this proposal has been presented jointly for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, we will launch a single two-minute intervention round to express our position. Thus, therefore, the first word has the deputy Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.52.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention with a record for the victims of the reactor explosion at the Chemical Industries Plant of Etilè Oxide on the 14th generation past. We want to bring our condolences to your family, friends and company, and we also want to express the desire that all the wounded are recovered as soon as possible and can return to work and live as normal as possible, even though it will be very difficult to forget this explosion. The Camp de Tarragona is one of the areas of high concentration of chemical industry in Catalonia and the conjunct of Espanya, a chemical industry that is present in Tarragona since the first half of the last century. Surely they have heard it say: the chemical cluster of Tarragona is the most important of southern Europe; therefore, it is the most important of Spain. Production in Tarragona's petrochemical polygons is 50_percent of total production in Catalonia and represents 25_percent of total production in Spain, a production that we have to say is around 20_million_tonnes of chemical products, any year. We are talking about an important industrial sector, of high value added, with a level of investment in research, development and innovation that exceeds 25_percent of the total Spanish industry. The chemical sector of Tarragona employs around 5,500 people in jobs considered direct, i.e., workers contracted directly for enterprises that conform to the sector and that are integrated into the AEQT. But it also generates around 5,500 more jobs considered indirect, that is to say, in which workers work in the industry as part of contractors. For this reason, the real impact of the occupation on the Tarragona regions must also be taken into account that the number of jobs induced for the same chemical industry up to 35,000. Therefore, Tarragona's petrochemicals are directly responsible for 63_percent of the movements of the port of Tarragona and 53_percent of the total exports of the province. More than half of total production went to foreign sales, especially in Europe, the vast majority, but also to the rest of the world. The chemical sector is one of the growth and development engines all over the world, with a worldwide forecast of continued growth of 4.5_per_cent until 2030. We are, therefore, ahead of a consolidated industrial sector, which deserves the attention of the public administrations, and today, as a result of the serious accident of the 14th generation at the plant of Iqoxe, also our attention as parliamentarians to try to find the answers that society demands, especially the citizens of the province of Tarragona. From the point of view of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we are talking about an industrial sector of strategic character, with a high number of places of work of quality and with a potential of growth and continuity – therefore, of maintaining places of work – that is out of doubt. Therefore, we will not discuss its viability and the need to ensure its continuity. But also the enormous economic impact of the chemical industry, the veins of Tarragona, especially of the laying barrels, but also of the Canonja and Vila-seca, of the Morell and of the People of Mafumet, of all the municipalities that are within the areas of influence of the two petrochemical polygons of Tarragona, as they are also in Flix or at any address of Catalonia where there is the chemical industry, as well as the wealth that this industry represents, also look closely at industrial installations, loving at any change that can occur for what it does to the daily aspect. The veins of chemical polygons often reflect the quality of the air that they breathe, or the possible environmental contamination, aware, as they are, that we are ahead of an industry but that in some of its processes they reach considerable levels of risk. This cold, after accidents as heavy as they are, increases exponentially. It is only necessary to speak with the most friendly views of the polygons to note that the risk feeling, always present, is multiplied as a consequence of these accidents. An explosion and a fire of the size of which he lived to the southern polygon of Tarragona petrochemistry, to the plant of Iqoxe, the 14th dimarts of generation, is of things that are not oblivious. And they cannot be forgotten or left behind, because there were three dead, two plant workers and a Torreforta, who died at home as a result of the impact on their habitation of a huge half-piece of the reactor that was exploited; three dead and up to seven wounded, some of which were very serious. And there has also been considerable material damage. But, look, it's still coming out, because at this hour, we could be talking about a much bigger number of victims. Just to give an example: at the time of the explosion, at the municipal football camp in Bonavista, less than six-hundred_metres straight from the Iqoxe plant, there was a group of children doing their usual training. The rapid reaction of the dwarfs, who ran to take refuge in the building where there are the costumes, avoided an incalculable disgrace. The area of the football camp where at the time of the explosion there was a major density of minors was filled with pieces of half-elastic fish that, in the mode of the machine gun, fell on the ground. Therefore, now, especially now, after this heavy accident, the veins of the zones of influence look much more closely at the industrial installations of Camp de Tarragona. A feeling that, given the fact that the initial response of those responsible for the management of the emergence was produced, it can be extrapolated to the veins of other industrial areas of the chemical sector in Catalonia. In the motius presentation of the motion for a resolution that we are now debating, presented jointly for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, there is a paragraph that conveys with great precision what I am saying: "This unfortunate accident involves a paradigm shift respecting the perception of the activity of the chemical industry. Professionals working in the chemical sector have always been very aware of the risks arising from this very important industrial activity. Many of the people in the industry, especially those who have family members or friends working in the sector, were also aware of the abst of these risks. After accidents as heavy as that of the 14th generation, it may be difficult to find someone in Catalonia who is not, even if at least, aware of the potential risk of living at such a short distance with a large value-added industry, but who is not free from risks arising from some of his industrial processes. The same sector, the same companies are very aware, and of course they will work hard to improve processes, security measures, emergency response capabilities, risk prevention and worker training, as they certainly have done many years, but now even more. The authorities responsible for security, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the assemblies affected, must also tell him his own. I need to go through the security plans and see in detail what didn't work out in the emergency management, which, in everyone's eyes, was a lot of things. Errors must be corrected and the ability to respond to such heavy accidents increased considerably. The tarragons, I have to tell them we ask a few questions: security and answers. Security to avoid that in the future it is possible to produce more accidents like that of the 14th generation dimarts of 2020. Responses, which, in part, will have to come out of the work of this Specific Commission for the Study of the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector in Catalonia, as well as to come out of the judicial investigations resulting from the accident. The object declared by this committee is the study of the security of the petrochemical sector in Catalonia, and, in concrete terms, the functioning of the external security plans. In the motius presentation, the need to know transparently everything that happened during the emergence, to purify responsibilities and to study the actions needed to ensure full environmental, industrial and labour security is emphasized. Respect this approach, which, I repeat, is a combination of making only two points. The first, to say that the main responsibilities, which they have to deal with the victims and the material damage caused, the appropriate and relevant scope for debugging them is the judicial, and in this sense we do not believe that it is determining the work that we can do in this commission. Secondly, if what we are talking about is debugging political responsibilities in relation to the malfunctioning of the External Emergencies of Catalonia's chemical sector, the best would be that of a committee of inquiry, as our parliamentary group has already announced, and which may also need to be more forward-looking. In any case, let's start threading the needle. Today we will approve this study commission and see how its work evolves. From the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we will do everything possible because Catalans, in general, and Tarragonans in particular have at least some...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.53.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.54.0	...of the answers we ask for. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.55.0	Well, now the affected groups have asked me to make a change in the order of interventions, and, therefore, in the first place, I would like to put the words of Congresswoman Yolanda López, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Puermos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.56.0	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I want to greet and thank and send a strong embrace to the workers of the company Iqoxe who accompany us, neighbors and neighbors, both of the districts of ponant, of Tarragona, as well as of Vila-seca, and my colleagues of..., the directors of Vila-seca in Comú, and the Coordinator of Entities of Tarragona, who accompany us here today. So, too, our most affectionate memory of the three people who lost their lives in the accident and of the seven wounded there. And also those who are not here today but who lived and live with anguish the situation of Camp de Tarragona and the petrochemical industry, after the terrible explosion of January 14th. Tomorrow will be a month of this fateful explosion and the investigations still do not clarify the causes of this chemical accident that caused, as I have said before, three dead, seven wounded and the suffering of thousands of citizens of Tarragona, Vila-seca and the Canonja, as well as of the workers of Iqoxe and their families, who today continue to mourn for the great suffering that this accident has entailed. Citizenship, workers and, in general, Catalans and Catalans, we have the right to know exactly what happened on 14 January. It is urgent and necessary to answer an endless question. Why did the information not flow in due course? What were the internal mechanisms used for detection and communication with the Centre for Operational Coordination of Catalonia? Why did the company take more than an hour to communicate with the Civil Protection Operations Centre? What were the reasons why the way of communication was through social networks? Why didn't the sirens sound? Why are other channels of communication not activated? If the sirens fail, why not communicate with neighbours' entities or associations, for example? What are the reasons why petrochemicals Iqoxe has commissioned their investigation of the accident at the Institut Químic in Sarrià? And many other questions, unknown which we will put to the committee on the petrochemical accident, which we will vote on here today and which will certainly be approved. But even if we are going to hold a study committee on the accident, there are things that are very obvious. The economic importance of the petrochemical sector in Camp Tarragona is evident, not only for the companies themselves and their results account, but also for the citizens and the territory. A high percentage of the population works or has worked in one of the petrochemical complex factories. But also, and the reality is that, as trade unions and workers have been reporting for a long time, there is growing job insecurity that makes workers increasingly vulnerable. It is therefore essential that there is extreme security for workers and, therefore, citizens to be calm and protected. Security with emergency measures and plans that respond effectively and efficiently to situations like these. It is necessary to review and improve the safety protocols of petrochemical companies in order not to re-live situations of lack of information with deployed teams, to respond to the emergency situation, as well as to increase inspections, not to put companies under suspicion, but because of the sensitivity of the activity and the tranquility of workers and citizens who, taking into account the danger of the activity carried out by these types of companies, should improve the internal mechanisms of detection and communication with the Cecat. And now he told me to the Government, that of all it is known that the lack of personnel of the Directorate General of Civil Protection of Tarragona; four people, four, in a territory with the casuistic of the Camp of Tarragona. Do you really believe, gentlemen of the Government, that four people can cover any possible alerts? Obviously not. It is the task of the Government, but also of the Parliament, that we take all the necessary steps to clarify the situation and to avoid a new situation like this. And that the committee should not only clarify what happened, but also that the committee should come up with solutions so that neighbours, for workers, do not have to live with daily anguish in the face of the lack of transparency and mistrust generated by living next to petrochemicals. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now yes, it is the turn of Congressman Carles Castillo, of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.58.0	Good morning, everyone. Greetings to the people who go from Tarragona, from Tarragona to accompany us. Welcome and thank you to the company for waiting for me. Go ahead with our condolences and solidarity with the victims, family members, workers and visitors, and our recognition of all the emergence services that took part, both the private ones of the polygon, who are the first to arrive, who were the first to arrive, as the publics that took care of themselves in the overall way of the operation of the emergence and of the rescue. It's been a long time since there's been a heavy explosion in Tarragona's petrochemical complex with devastating consequences for the confidence of the citizenry. Surely one_me from which the citizenry was urged to confine itself preventively while the sirens that were taught to cry to the confinement were not activated. Almost one_month after a projectile, about a ton of fish, came out disparate by more than 2.5_kilometres, crossed three or four barrels and impacted on the third pes from a vein scale of Torreforta's barrio, pierced the land and blew up in the second pes, and killed Sergio, who was found by his householder. He also left important wrecks at the first piss. From all this, this scale of veins remains the same, as if you passed yesterday, with the rune and everything, as well as many other scales of veins of clean barrels that continue to have the glass cut off by the expansive blast, and that the discussions of insurance and responsibilities, diverse and discussed, cause them to come without being arranged for anyone, when not, because they did not say, they could not pay the assurances so that they would choose between eating or paying the insurance. Plugs, winds, and so on have passed, Gloria, and these affected veins have been some with the hole in the face caused by this shot gun living in family homes, and others with their glass cut covered with cartons. The sight on which the projectile fell upon her husband, in the band of the personal loss, is today, that we are here talking to each other, without being able to go home to her, and without anyone, no one, no administration, has already given her a piss, as the situation clears up, and why she can cry her pain in the intimacy; what less. I understand – and I also want to say – that the Assembly of Tarragona is conversing to get a pee. That's true. But today's nothing's come true. Surely, the company that suffered the explosion, that had labor expedients opened for violations of labor regulations, Iqoxe, on March returned to work and continued to have the production so necessary for the rest of the industries. And it seems very good to us, if they can return to normality complete all the requirements that experts have for convenient. But what about the veins and veins affected? Some, on the day of today, have not been able – with dec – to enter his house. They dropped more than a hundred disparate projectiles for the explosion and, by luck – above we still have to give thanks – it only impacted on a scale. Because there could have been in a hundred buildings or schools with children – there was nothing they were doing football training in schools much at will. And along with those affected hard and direct, there are many others that have also been more superficial, but not less difficult. I've been told not to sleep at all. Some people have had to go to social services because they have a desire and anxiety for the body. Only chance prevented the consequences of the accident of past 14 from being catastrophic. And we want and need industry, ladies and gentlemen, but not any industry and not any price. Because what scandalizes, in the end, is that some – a few, and certainly the minority of this industry – prioritize achieving the greatest possible productivity and benefits, and do so against the safety and health of workers and society at large. And it also scandals the negligence of the Administration of the Generality, which with its guilt in vigilance facilitates the impunity of companies when they lower standards in working conditions that clearly impact on security. And scandal because they're not playing with their security, they're playing with the security of everyone. Industry is necessary, of course, and everyone wants to defend the quality jobs that come from it. But this doesn't give bad companies license to neglect. The Plaseqcat, coordinated by Barcelona, did not work. And it didn't work in different incidents, already. And this has been denounced for the trade unions in the Ram. Years ago they demanded a sister in a table to negotiate changes with the Generality, and it was a series of different incidents and problems of type light or less difficult, which also carry time passing by. Until something happened again, and this time much harder, they didn't get interested in gathering these proposals or reflections. There are problems with subcontracting, because, while holding maintenance subcontracts that work, naturally, with quality, entering it by multi-serve companies, in general, the working conditions have deteriorated, and with them, many times, security. And this is one of the hardest problems we have in the table that we need to solve, because we're talking about the security of the same companies, the workers and the workers, but also the security of the entire population. That's why we're here today, to propose all the papers to this committee of study that has to come up with what has failed and what things can get better because it never happens again. And to avoid, of course, that the whole industry is criminalized in general, when it is certain that the majority act with rigour and responsibility. Probably the outcome of the investigation will tell us what happened. Surely, as always happens, it is not only a sole and exclusive cause, but the attendance of various. The accident manifests a certain abandonment of the Administration of the Generality in its preventive, inspection, punitive and coercive function. In short, in its function of defending the interests and the security of the people towards the purely economic interests of some companies. Do you know, for example, that Civil Protection did not have information about the workers' dispatches opened by the Labour Inspectorate? According to Plaseqcat, sirens must sound in the event of a chemical accident, defined this as a fit, flight, fire or explosion. The 14 genera gave the four assumptions and the sirens didn't ring. Containment is the most appropriate measure with general character in case of activation, according to Plaseqcat. And I quote: "Because the containment and/ or evacuation is effective, so that the communication of the accident is very fast. That's what Plaseqcat literally says. The first tweet of Emergencies recommending confinement was at 19.06; twenty-nine minutes after the explosion. Therefore, protocols need to be reviewed; if the default action plans are risk plans; improve the interfaces between internal, external, municipal, self-protection and emergency plans. And these last ones should be redesigned locally, according to risk zones. I already know that the Department of Interior is on this line exactly, but it has to be from the general context of Catalonia as the unique region of Emergencies. Now that they have an Emergence Bill proposal that the government ran around, I think it's time to talk about these things. It is an agent and manager of the emergence, and not as it is now, that is managed by two different general directions, such as the Directorate General of Emergencies, for one band, and the Civil Protection Directorate, for the other, that operate completely as compartments are, with lack of coordination, malfunctions, unnecessary duplicates and mutual mistrust. But more important than redefining plans, naturally, is to make them complete correctly and apply them correctly. Communication to the people and media – especially to the locals – was regrettable. The image that was given of four or five policies that seemed to be seeking quota to communication media giving biases, contradictions and few technical qualifications did not contribute to the resolution of the disaster and did not contribute to the confidence of the population. The guarantee to avoid panic is true information. We need honesty in management and communication, but above all in the recognition of everything that has not been done correctly and is to be improved, seeking corrective measures and solutions in the preventive areas of management and control of emergencies and in the role of inspector. Analyzing the main chemical accidents, you can see that they have in common, in the band of victims on the plant and to the proper populations: the reduction in safety expense, the increase of times controlled by production, subcontracting, the human factor – by fatigue or lack of training – and the lack of inspection and maintenance. That's what expert reports and chemical engineers say, not me. Many of the populations affected by chemical accidents had high assumptions and were ahead of time thanks to these industries. In a matter of seconds, they've ceased to be. Prevention and security can't be traded for any change in species, no subsidies, no infrastructure, no holidays, no economic paralysis chanting. Of each euro of benefits generated by activity and increase in production, we have to achieve a fixed percentage that goes towards better prevention and industrial and occupational safety. Security must be a proactive attitude on the part of the entrepreneur, and the Administration must age to reconcile stable and quality work with the competence of businesses and the interests and security of the vehicles. And this object is perfectly insoluble. All right, all right, I'm sorry, I may have been hard, but it's Tarragona's punch. I share risk and concern with a few times I've looked into the eyes and I've actually seen that they're very outraged and worried about the situation they've given themselves. That project that killed Sergio could have entered by any feat of Tarragona or its own people and could have touched us by any one; by my own, that of Francisco Domínguez, that of Raquel Sans, that of Campdepadrós or that of Alejandro Fernández, who are also of Tarragona, that of any one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, then, it's the turn of Deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.60.0	Good morning, all of you. We would like to begin with a window that has made most of the spokespersons of the rest of the groups, that is conveying the condol and support to families, friends and friends, to the companies and to the lives of the victims that have arisen in the years to come from Tarragona's petrochemistry. We've done this before, obviously, to come to this faristol and at the right time, but we think it's very important that in the constitution of this commission to study Tarragona's petrochemicals we exercise above all to remember people, to remember their families, to remember their friends and to remember what post-painting means when they give situations like we've experienced in the past years of Tarragona's petrochemicals. What do we think this committee should solve, that we remember it's a study? So, first of all, transparency. And transparency passes, from one band, to the exercise of being able to know the integral plan, on the part not only of the agents of security, but for the conjunction of the population. And that doesn't mean we know it exists; it means that, in its accessibility, everyone can hear it perfectly. And when some and some of us go to this plaza and we don't understand it, the problem isn't what you're going to, it's what you're going to do. Also clear and effective communication mechanisms. It cannot be that we are still discussing whether or not the sirens should be sounded, or whether or not we should be confined to the house. And above all to know the causes of the accidents. And in our accidents we want to place the centrality in the accidents of work and denounce, from this Faristol, that, when this parliamentary subgroup has asked the Government, through the Department of Treball, copy of the activities of Inspection of Treball, for example, about the accident of the People of Mafumet, they have told us that they do not give us copy. And, invoking a Treball Inspection policy, which is not applied to Members and Members... and which does not allow us to know in depth and, therefore, act politically to solve the problems of Catalans and Catalans. We won't flatten ourselves before that, we'll get in the end, obviously, to give us a copy of these Labour Inspection performances. Also important, and I am connected with the fact that we know the causes: we have to address security issues as a central element, review the contingency plan to assess the potential human and environmental risk and control the risk. Also review the Plaseqcat, above all to review it from the perspective that in the day to day much the technological reality changes and, obviously, also the management of the chemical incident, or the chemical accident; or we know firsthand what there is there or hardly this Plaseqcat plate can be giving answer to our needs. And determine minimum security gaps between industries and the population. When I prepared the intervention and thought about this point, I came to the top of a song from the year 1985, from one of the best albums that was edited that year, which I said, in the literal: "You made our houses next to your factories. I will not go on with the song, because I could offend some Christian Democrat here in the House, but I do want to remember this contradiction between those we have lived and live at the expense of factories and that we live at the factories and that we want to have factories, but at the same time it also generates us, as love, I hate, the fact of seeing how we are exploited, as our relatives die, as they do not give us alternatives of security and, therefore, this permanent contradiction of love with respect to what industry means. Also important: minimal impact on health and the environment. Therefore, necessary studies on what it means to Camp Tarragona to admit all those chemical compounds, to carry out acoustic studies on the environment of the polygons and above all to carry out independent epidemiological studies, which can analyze the real impact of the petrochemical industry on the health of people. On... the later question that we think we need to address this study committee: also look at the current legislation and see how we need to adapt it to give the necessary answers. We wanted to end with a special recognition, we did it about the families and friends of the victims, but also with an entity, which is the Net Platform. In fact, practically our intervention carried out what this platform is laying out from a long time ago, not now the last weeks, but from a long time ago. Let's think this is the path. But we also want to make another approach to some intervention that has been made earlier by some other Member, that is, that we are doing an exercise in the constitution of this commission to study in Canonia and that appearances or sessions can mostly be carried out at Camp de Tarragona, to look at the face of our lives and our lives, to look at the face and hear the suffering of the victims or, more than the victims, also the relatives and friends of the victims of the petrochemical accidents of Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party. [[Daniel Serrano Coronado intervenes without using the microphone.]] From the escó?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.62.0	Now. Thank you, Vice President. From the seat. First, to join us in our show of condolence and support for the families of the deceased in this tragic accident, and for the wounded to wish them a speedy recovery. We are obviously going to join the request for the establishment of this committee of study on safety in the petrochemical sector as a signatory to the request, but it is true that we initially believed that the creation of a committee of inquiry would have been more effective, because it would have provided us with tools that the committee of study will not be able to provide. Commission of Inquiry not only because of the gravity of the accident that occurred in the petrochemicals of the Canonja, but because we have the deep conviction that there were failures in the protocols of action and that there should be responsibilities, we would already see whether politics, criminal or both, right? But we thought it would have been more effective to ask, to set up a commission of inquiry. However, in view of the procedural phase we are in and of which judicial proceedings have been opened, and for the sake of consensus, we have joined the request for the establishment of a committee of study, from which we hope that we can draw the necessary consequences, on the one hand, so that unfortunate accidents such as those that occurred a month ago in the Canonja do not occur again, but above all also so that we can transmit to the neighbours of the area, the environment, the security and the tranquility of those living in safe environments. Those families, those neighbors, now live in deep anguish, not knowing if that accident can happen again. And I believe it is the responsibility of everyone, of Parliament, of the Government, in short, of all the institutions, to convey the certainty, confidence and certainty that an accident of these characteristics will not occur again in the future. We therefore trust that this study committee can serve that purpose. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the return of Congresswoman Raquel Sans, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.64.0	Thank you, Vice President, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, Mr Ricomà, Mayor of Tarragona, who will accompany us here today, as well as the companies of Vila-seca who are here today at the plenary of Parliament. It serves this intervention, from the outset, to give the condol to the family of the mortal victims of this accident, of the three mortal victims, and also of the accidental persons. As was also the case with Congressman Castillo, therefore, to recognize the pocket of the emergency services, which acted at all times with great diligence and which were there from the very first moment. Therefore, you also need to put your pocket in value. It was almost three-quarters of a set of the late 14th of a generation, when an explosion occurred in one of the reactors of the chemical company Iqoxe, located in the southern polygon of Tarragona. Two of the company's workers died in the accident. A third person, a fifty-nine-year-old man from the Tarragonese barri de Torreforta, who at the time of the explosion was at his home, also lost his life. The expansive wave of the explosion caused a mezzol·lic plane of a ton of pes impacted against its buildings, located at the square Federico García Lorca, and caused a partial collapse. From here, sirens, many and many times activated in test mode – they do tests for their functioning two times a year, which is not synonymous with simulating, but it is what it does to prove the sirens – did not sound. Moments of confusion, therefore, of panic on the part of the vein that had just felt the explosion, that saw the flames, that smelled the smoke but didn't know what was going on. From the Twitter account of Emergencies, first messages recommencing to the veins and the veins. At the radio, he was also talking about preventive confinement. Contradictory messages that placed the population in a situation of defencelessness, and that further contributed to generating negitation and this feeling of confusion in a late nervous and porous manner. But we don't have to fool ourselves, and we have to bear in mind that chemistry is a risk industry. Perhaps as the society – said the deputy Alonso –, at the level of perceptions we had relaxed. It is precisely this risk that, both at regulatory and corporate level, safety standards, protocols, technologies that are required are extremely thorough, which, despite this high risk that they manage in their day-to-day running a sector, chemistry, with lower accident taxes than other apparently safer industries. But it is obvious, as has been shown, that with all this, with all this work, with all this training, with all this still not enough. This time, moreover, the death of a person totally alien to the chemical industry, a Veí de Torreforta, as we say, which at the time of the accident was his home, supposes, also as the deputy Alonso said, a total paradigm shift. And we must not forget that the consequences – they have also repeated it, so Members who preceded me – could have been much worse. They have found themselves half-elastic fishes in spaces as transited as the Educational Complex of the Ancient Laboral or also as the football camp of Bonavista. Certainly, Congressman Castillo was talking about the consequences that this has had in some habitats and in some ways. Therefore, it means that the assembly has made available a service of psychological care and guidance to people who have suffered damage to their assets from the first minute, and that housing alternatives have also been offered for these veins and veins. So, too, from the Tarragona Junction to the side of these veins and veins. As I said, this accident presupposes the need to rethink this relationship of coexistence between the citizens of Tarragona and the chemical industry, a relationship begun in the sixties that has been consolidated until this sector has become the most economically important sector of our communities, of the communities of Camp de Tarragona. Dona labora– also said the deputy Alonso – directly and indirectly to eleven_ thousand people, and Tarragona is the most important chemical polygon in southern Europe. A polygon that, we do not forget, also coexists with tourism, the other great pot of the economy of Camp Tarragona. The accident produced a 14-genre. We wonder what would have happened if this accident had occurred in the middle of the tourist season. It's a question I think we need to ask ourselves, too. The security of not only the workers of chemistry, but of all the citizens of Camp Tarragona, is co-responsibility between the government and the industry. For this reason, from our group we believe that the creation of this commission is essential, that it must give answer to all the questions that we ask ourselves about Tarragona's veins and veins: why did the explosion occur? Did the plant have adequate safety measures? Was the risk analysis the right one? Did the relevant inspections and controls take place? Why didn't the sirens ring? Because that, somehow, also came, as I said, in contradiction to the messages that were being used by Civil Protection and also by the communication media. How and when did he determine that the cloud was not toxic? Were there any malfunctions and who were they, in this chemical outdoor Emergence Plate? The veins and veins of Tarragona, especially of the laying barrels, those of the Canonja, of Vila-seca, of Constantí, of Morell, of the People of Mafumet, of Vilallonga, do you really know what to do in case of a chemical accident? I think after this accident it proved not, that we don't know. Is there a good coordination between Civil Protection, that is, between the government and the area's assemblies? And since we need to rethink things, I think we also need to put our focus on environmental security. They are diverse, especially from the Cel Net Platform, which has for a long time demanded a study of the quality of the area, which claim to know what air we breathe the veins of the Camp of Tarragona. In fact, in this same line, the government of Tarragona, under the guany assumptions, has already included a match of 200,000 euros for a study, precisely, on the quality of the air. Because we want to know what air we breathe and what effects this has and can have on our salvation. Another measure that has also been claimed, in this case, since the Tarragona Assembly, has been, in this case, a complaint to the Government of the Spanish State to create a chemical safety agency. An agency that allows us to avoid accidents like that that was produced in Iqoxe but also previous accidents like those that have found place in the last few months to companies like Metal Carbons or Miasa. Therefore, this is not a single accident, but there are no previous ones. I, therefore, need to prevent these accidents from occurring. Since the Department of Labour, Councillor El Homrani has already told us that they will come to the end to determine whether there has been any incompliments in the labor security of the workers and workers of the enterprise. Therefore, it will come to the end. They have presented themselves as the popular accusation in the investigation that there is in the courts. And, therefore, I believe that as the administration, as well as public representatives in this Parliament, it is important that we agree with all political formations, all political groups, because this accident is to be investigated in depth, investigated until the last consequences. We need to know what was wrong, we need to know where we were wrong, we need to resolve responsibilities and we need to work with all our strength – it's our obligation – because that never happens again. We play a lot of games here and there from Tarragona. Actually, as it turned out, we're playing it all. Let's play it for ourselves. Therefore, this work is very important. Therefore, from our parliamentary group we can do nothing but support the creation of this committee and make ourselves available to keep working to prevent accidents such as these and to, as I said, rethink the relationship between the chemical industry and the veins and veins of Camp Tarragona. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the turn of Teresa Pallarès, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.66.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice President. Very honorable president of the Generalitat, councillors, mayor of Tarragona, a pleasure that you can also accompany us today. It's an important issue. It is very symbolic, very important your presence here today, as well as the people who accompany us: directors, entities and members, as well as the Net Platform, Members and Members. To sum up, as it cannot be in any other way – I have already done so in an intervention in the past Ple –, to the condolences directly to the relatives of the mortal victims, but also to all those people who have been injured or, at last, affected with effects, even psychological, on the subject of pressure and the moments that they have lived in Tarragona. Because, really, the 14th generation was a tough episode that was produced in our home, around this chemical and petrochemical industry. What is true is that a paradigm shift has occurred. There's one before and one after. The chemical industry, with all these measures – as has been explained, with all the Members and Members who preceded me... The fact that the death of a vehicle in a bar is occurring outside of what is the limit of the industrial installation, this is a change that really needs to be reflected with the causes of the accident and with what has happened. That's why we're here, too, today in this Commission. To me, if I may, I must say – because I was able to live in the first person – intervention in the emergency phase, Counsellor Buch, also the Health Counsellor, all those who were able to intervene at the front of that emergency phase – I was able to live directly with you, like other people – and I must say that it was an important job. With recognition of all the people of all the bodies who intervened because the work that had to be done at that time was important. We have recognized... you yourself, counselor, have recognized a few moments, an uncertainty around the subject of communication to the people. Therefore, it is an important issue that we will address, as I will now explain. It's important, it's vital to be very loving at this stage of investigation. That's very important. We can't start from harm and suspicion – as the deputy of Catalonia in Comú Pomera commented – but we need to pay close attention to all the different lines that take place at this stage of investigation, because we need to believe in rigour and responsibility. And from this investigation must be the answers given in a clear way to the people, but also to the sector itself. I think the sector itself is also a part of this phase, because it also needs answers because an accident of this caliber has occurred, unlike other incidents that may have happened or that they know they can control. Therefore, I believe that here we are at a stage that, at this moment, there is a secret part of summary, and we have to be loving whom I come from here. We need to work in a transparent way – this word has come out, too, and I will not repeat it – but I think it is important that we work from the point of view of rigour, responsibility and transparency to give an answer – as I said – especially to the people, but also to all those involved in this phase and in this work of the industry. Look, for me, there's a key word in this whole process, which is sustainability. I understand, first of all, the economic sustainability of the production sector in Tarragona. They didn't come out of the data, they talked about it. This sector – as different Members have said – accounts for almost 30_percent of the gross domestic product in our home. This means, from the frivolity of data, however, that many people work in the chemical industry, they are directly, indirectly and for many years. The chemical industry began to come to Tarragona in the sixties. He's worked a lot for the best of this industry in Tarragona, and together with the territory. Councilman Calvet isn't very familiar, that there's a board of directors, that I think should be the first, the first, huh? , which was tough in term because this work of the chemical industry, in a consensual way in the territory, shares the tourism sector, which also has an important power in the country's conjunction, and steps have been taken to work together. Wages, we don't forget, these days we're talking about job insecurity, we're talking about inequalities... Obviously; but we also have to put it on the table. We're talking about an industry that provides 80_per_cent work contracts. And we're talking about people's jobs with a high level of preparation, with a mid-term of less than 37,500 euros. I repeat again: data frivolity, but we have to take this into account, we have to take this into account. The same industry, which I think is important at these times, that with constant investments, the whole set of industry..., around better and safer. We need to talk about the environmental sustainability – it has also come out – of the different studies... Any industry, any point in Catalonia, cannot pull forward if we are not aligned with the objectives of sustainable development of the European Union. That, I think, is that both Consellera Chacon and Conseller Calvet, all of you involved with the territory and with industrial activity... can't walk in any other way. Therefore, demands, those that calguin; sotmesos, the chemical industry, with serious measures coming from Europe, such as the BREF directives, the best references– « the best references–, which analyze emissions of air, water and soil. We have, since the year 2015, the Taula de Qualitat de l'Aire a Tarragona, with independent studies, with the participation of the vein, the chemical industry, the same Cel Net Platform, which today also accompany us. We need to keep working on the line, as we've done so far, creating online emission control points, every minute, that the same department has and that are transparent to the web, and that everyone can consult them. What other elements can add? Obviously, we can introduce the best we can, but obviously we have to work on this line. No one can escape that a fact like this has come out of the confines of our home, of the Camp de Tarragona, of the industry of the Camp de Tarragona, even of the country. Social networks bring these news today and the Fedequim, Feique, which are employers also at the Catalan level, Spanish, but Cefic, at the level of the European agency, are also in the current of all these themes. Here is a very important point, which is the third pot of sustainability: social sustainability. At this point, trust with the people and with the people has been broken. This is a point that we need to worry about, that the government is very concerned about, and it is a point that we need to allow all the activities and work we do around this committee. If I may, what did the government do? I repeat the words that the very Honourable President Torra has already said in an answer last day..., to the control session: "The Government has acted as an accusation, because it has the responsibility to know whether or not all the requests comply with health, prevention of occupational risks. A social dialogue table has been opened in the field of prevention and occupational health. Work inspection's on the loose. All the departments that you have skills need to be left behind, because it is the responsibility of the government that we give answers, as I said, to the people, and also – and also – to the same sector. Obviously, as in parliament, the parliamentary tools we have to put them also in the abst and align with all this work. This study committee aims to study the safety of the petrochemical sector in Catalonia, and in concrete terms of safety plans. Let us not forget that we have a great repte. The first is: we have to gather all the appearances, the questions, the concerns..., all the people who have to come to Parliament to explain around this industry, what happened, come to find answers. Secondly, giving these responses to the citizenry, because how administration and how parliament can possibly in the future will be a matter for us to legislate respect. I would just like to end by saying that we should congratulate ourselves on being able to make a joint response from all the parliamentary groups. Therefore, this means responsibility and compromise the country when these themes unite us before a fact like what happened in Tarragona. I also want to thank Juntes for Catalonia for the co-responsibility of all the groups and the work that remains for us to pull together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Before proceeding to the vote, it appears to be agreed between the groups on an alteration of the plenary's sequence, so that the point of order of the day, which is the motion on territorial inequalities, can be substantiated just after this vote. Is everyone all right? [[Pause.]] They confirm to me that he has agreed; therefore, after this vote we would proceed to debate this motion, which was the last item on the agenda. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.68.0	All right. So let's vote on the motion for a resolution creating the petrochemical safety committee. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into territorial inequalities in Catalonia]] [[302-0192/12]] Well, as previously granted, we now follow the order of the day with the number 20 point, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on territorial inequalities in Catalonia, motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia In Comú Pode. To defend it has the word of Congressman Marc Parés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.69.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Let's keep talking about the Oblate Catalonia. We present with this motion a set of proposals to combat territorial inequalities, concretely those affecting rural areas, especially the regions of the south, of the post and of the High Pyrenees, which are more drasticly expressed these inequalities. Look, our societies are every day more urban, 80 percent of the population lives in cities, and it's cities where they speak and where most of the social and environmental problems that we have to face are also caused; that's right. Now, we can't disconnect urban dynamics from rural dynamics, because it's in the rural world where environmental services that make cities work are produced. And that's why it's just that the company's joint venture is our responsibility. And that means putting in value and collecting pages and productive activity, but it also means developing strategies so that the rural world is alive and active; and we all know that this goes much further beyond the primary sector. And that's what this really has to do with who is the model of the country we defend, which model we bet on. Because rural depopulation is indeed a model of a country, and territorial equity is another, totally opposed: a model based on territorial development from the human perspective, from environmental and social sustainability. We are clearly committed to territorial equity, and that is why we are proposing in this motion a rural agenda, coordinated with the urban agenda, as a real tool of participatory governance and strategic planning, to put the problems of the rural world on the table, to face the challenges posed by both the growing territorial inequalities and the dynamics of depopulation; a tool, in short, to advance towards territorial equity. They ask us from the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia, and we have examples of them very well; without going further, in France. Mirin, we believe, moreover, that the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation should lead this rural agenda; a committee, of course, which does not know exactly what is being done or what results are being produced, and that is why we are also asking for one of the points that is being explained. But, of course, it turns out that this is what we have the government's project, which is called a living country, a country of opportunity, a project from which, frankly, we have not just drawn clear water. Councilwoman Budo told us the other day that she didn't know or that they didn't have the results of this very project. And, look, I know it's hard, but our impression is that this "Living country, country of opportunity, is nothing more than an occurrence of President Torra, empty of quotas, empty of resources, and having the same future as this government, that is, cap. And the feeling that we have is that between one and the other, between Agriculture for one band and Presidency for the other, here finally does not advance in matter. And it's really a big deal, because in this young man we have shown that at the time of dealing with these problems the different groups are really able to agree on the proposals, all the groups, both from the government and from the opposition, and this shows that this is an important issue, an important issue, and that all of us want to solve it all, and that the problem is really complex. Let me highlight some of the proposals that we have agreed on in this motion. In the field of digital communication, totally priority: to deploy optical fiber to the whole territory; in fact, we have granted it in the agreement of assumptions. In the field of health, we propose an integrated and equitable management of the services and care routes of all territories, as the manager, with unified protocols and clinical guidelines; and we add here also a point aimed at reversing the detail in primary care and in local hospitals, at the proposal of the PSC. In the field of education, we propose to create a system of public aid for all students who have to reside outside their municipality for reasons of study, and also to claim the pending transfers of scholarships and university aid from the State, as proposed to us by the groups supporting the Government. In the field of transport, claim from the State a higher rate of the application of the third additional provision and the completion of the financing commitments of the Rodalies plan, and also that the Avlo bet Lleida and Camp de Tarragona and that the Euromed bet to the Village ; also a plan of investments and maintenance to guarantee the running access to all the population clouds. And, in the environmental field, we propose, for one band, to provide resources for Catalonia's protected natural space system, and for the other, to plan the growth of renewable energies with criteria of territorial justice; and this means avoiding the massification of aerogenerators and photovoltaic power plants in certain regions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.70.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.71.0	Thank you, President. Since the People's Party announce that we will give support to the majority of points that are planted in this young man. We absolutely agree that depopulation is a problem that has worsened as time went by. Therefore, from this young man is set up a whole series of initiatives for such not only to think about what are those aspects that we must be able to bring forward so as to improve the living conditions in the territory and, therefore, to facilitate that living in a nucleus of small population or living longer from the capitals can be equated to doing so in the same capitals and, therefore, to have access in equal conditions to the same servants. And, therefore, from this point of view we believe that we should work, and so we will give support, I insist, to most of the points of this motion that raise this question. We have raised a point in which we also ask for another visit, which is the visit on the part of both the Government..., not to say explicitly, but we believe that it is also important that we do so from the Parliament. At the time of adoption of standards, at the time of adoption of laws, at the time of approval, even at the time of initiation in Parliament, we believe that it is appropriate for us to have an assessment of the territorial impact of the standards we adopt. And if I may, therefore, I refer to a law which we have not approved in this Parliament and which affects many rural areas and small population clusters: the Law on the tax on CO2 emissions from vehicles; it is not the same in the metropolitan area, where there are enough public transport alternatives, than in the rural area, which is essential for the use of private vehicles to move already to the land, already to the pharmacy, already to the health establishments. And, finally, if I may, at least in the text that we have reached, in paragraph 3a, we believe that there is a wrong one. We also heard the speech of the MP referring to primary care; in change, the text, I insist, eh? , which has reached us – I don't know if it has been corrected – talks about 'health care, and I think I should say primary care as much as hospitals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.72.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forwarding Units, it is now the return of the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.73.0	Congressman Parés, we'll have a general reflection of your young lady, also making a summary of how we got here. I think first of all we have to tell the government and the group that they support them, and they have to agree; they have to agree on what they want to do. Because we talk about depopulation and they present us, we approve, we agree an interdepartmental commission. The next day we talk about depopulation and we approve the "live country." Sometimes we approve the depopulation to the interdepartmental commission, and then to the media the president says something else. And today, here, we're going to approve the... we're going to talk about the depopulation and we're going to approve the rural agenda. Therefore, I believe that first of all we should agree on what we want to do and how we organize ourselves. I am very pleased that the Territorial Councillor is there, but it is also that, if you look at it, we have four years of debate on this point: we have had discussions with the Territorial Councillor on depopulation, we have had discussions with the Agricultural Councillor on depopulation and we have had discussions with the Presidency Councillor on depopulation, which is also an indicator that we do not know what we want to do, who is to lead it and what mechanisms we need to put on the table. By the way, who's coordinating it? I need to give a message. We've been betting to coordinate it from the Presidency, because how it affects all departments we think is the best way to lead it. But we don't have any inconvenience that land and agriculture, if you believe it, so you can do it. But what can't be is we're changing our minds every two by three. I need to make a proper diagnosis. And here too the Government – we have to say – has not been given a reflection on what is happening at these times in Catalonia, like other places in Europe or the State, and who are the formulas or receipts we have to do to counter it. It's a tough solution, obviously we know. The territory is complex, yes, but Catalonia is not so big either. And in the end, it is to have a country project that is balanced, and that from the urban world – that this is a struggle of all – from the urban world, from Barcelona, to help the development of the territory. For another band, thankfully that you bring the motion here on behalf of the commons, but there is a problem: economic commitments, practically there is none; commitments of money, laws, commitments of terms, practically there is none. And, in fact, we have put in here a compromise of money, which we demanded 30_million euros with a financing fund to deal with the crisis of agricultural prices. There you go! With what we offer money, it's no longer accepted. So, man, we understand that they're not all money, but we understand that some compromise might have required the government, precisely because we talk a lot, but then we don't end up seeing, we don't execute concrete proposals. There are no concrete proposals to the law of measures, which, many times, as the company of the People's Party said, went further to the detriment of territorial development because there is a vision of environmental laws, laws of development of the territory respect what is needed to create economic activities, opportunities and infrastructures. As well as thinking that it is possible to travel through the environment without counting on the participation of people who manage or live in the territory. We have said: we propose 30_million euros to make a financing plan for the crisis of prices, to recover the school transport to the aggregate nuclei, to recover the lost hospital services and the lost premise since 2010 in regional hospitals, to make a timetable to reverse 80_percent of the flood of public investment to the Lands of the Ebro and Lleida..., because, of course, let's say here the territories that the most people lose and it turns out that are the assumptions..., is the place where the assumptions fall more in this assumption that they have agreed. I would also ask them, if they agree the assumptions and have the capacity to inflate, man, that also in the law of measures and in the assumption of expenses intend also that this is reflected, or that there is some game for depopulation, or that there is no canon of water to the ramadere farms, or that there is no elimination of the Fundació Món Rural – Fundació Món Rural –, which is also being eliminated. Therefore, we see that there is a contradiction between what is said and what is then agreed. So, listen, we have a big challenge and a big problem, empty Catalonia and depopulation, and we urgently need to define what, how and when. Therefore, we have a problem that will only be solved with concrete measures and with the necessary resources. We would have liked to be more concrete. Obviously, to those proposals that go in the right direction we will give support, in those that we believe is a toast to the sun or that legitimize the action of the government we will abstain. I, of course, welcome the proposals or transactions made to Mr Parés. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.74.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr. Francesc Viaplana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.75.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... First of all, I want to thank Congressman Parés for his willingness to settle agreements. And the show is that in today's motion it is brought here to plenary will be approved, in most points, for unanimity or with a majority amplification. And that's good news, because I mean there's a country consensus that it's urgent to act to curb rural depopulation and get a country balanced territorially. Rural depopulation is a cross-cutting issue that affects the entire government, and with this key idea, Constable Serret created the interdepartmental committee with the objective of ensuring equal opportunities and contributing to territorial balance. And here's the key, if we want a balanced country, we need a country with the same opportunities for everyone. Those of us who live in territories where we are experiencing rural depopulation do not want to be subsidized; we want to be able to push our business projects forward; we want to protect our environment, but this is compatible with economic development; we want our children not to go out to find a job; we want us not to move to provincial capitals to make a bureaucratic move. It cannot be that today we have villages of the High Pyrenees without paved road or that, even if it is a territory where snow is usual, every time we have problems with the electric distribution networks. It cannot be that nuclear power stations are concentrated in the Ebre lands and at the same time we have problems with telecommunications, with the risk that this would entail in the event of an emergency. Or it can't be that in this territory there's a concentration of avocados where there's going to be residues from half a country. Deployment of the optical fiber network is taking place, but it cannot be that there is no mobile phone coverage on Lleida's plane or on people across the country. And that's just a few examples. Focusing on the motion we're debating today. I like it because it sets out actions on different fronts so that it can address territorial inequalities, and I believe that, frankly, with the presentations and the girl transactions, among all we have improved it. At a point 1 bis we will abstain, since the one that is claimed is already being done. In the first place, it refers to areas that have suffered fires. And the DARP's response to the fires of the Ribera d'Ebre, Segria and Garrigues, I honestly believe that it has been exemplary, declaring the emergence in the affected area 1 of August, betting for a structural change because pages and branches are the main managers of the territory, and allocating in total 11.5_million euros in measures to deal with the damage caused. And, second of all, the interdepartmental commission... that the previous ones have already spoken to me, but it's in full operation. Last July, 2019, it was redefined, and opened it up and made it more permeable to the participation of actors who bring knowledge and expertise; November of the same year it was the last meeting, and it is expected that it will reconvene this first quarter. And this committee does what it does is to analyze the situation and put in action for a long time. With regard to point 3a, we obviously need to ensure territorial equity and that local hospitals have all the necessary tools to ensure proper attention to the whole population, and that is what is working on, but the proposal that is being put forward, in our view, does not respond to the current situation, since the requests have changed, the expert has evolved and complexity has increased. Therefore, we must adapt the system to the new realities and not work in an ancient logic. For what it does to the incentius, the proposal as it is proposed could violate the sovereignty of collective bargaining. What's important is to trust the professionals in the territories. We choose to facilitate the processing of foreign professionals, improving the occupation of jobs with a special difficulty of coverage; to make policies to retain the talent of residents; to encourage work with multidisciplinary teams, and to generate opportunities to search and then improve reconciliation, just to give some examples. Many times it is completely inconsistent to prioritize macro-infrastructures before small micro-actions to improve mobility and accessibility, to give life, to give potential and activity to small rural and mountain clusters. I demand the Bonaigua tunnel, an updated project and a timetable to be able to do this work, but it is much more urgent to ensure security in all the times that every day they go on a municipal road with a lot of holes and avoiding rocks and debris. I'm running out of time, and I've got to go. [[The timer laughs.]] With regard to points 4 and 5, it is clear that it is necessary to re-claim the financing of the Railroads Board, and to prioritise railway investments, and so it was claimed with the question that Company Alfons Montserrat asked the other day and also the intervention of Councillor Calvet. The demise at the village station will be a demonstration demanding trains worthy of the Jewish Priory, not a minor train, and, of course, we will be supporting it. For what it does to sweet fruit, which has been discussed before, it is in a critical situation, it is a structural problem due to the imbalance in the capacity to negotiate the trunks of the food chain. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It is essential that the actions of the 2018-2020 plan culminate and donate to it, but it is necessary to highlight the line of credits...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.76.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.77.0	... – I ended up, President – for the circulation of up to €35,000 for each solicitor through the Catalan Institute of Finance. There is also a planned demonstration, unity, with the slogan ‘Save the page and defend the rural world. Finally, what we need: political consensus, strategic unity and concrete actions to build a country that is territorially balanced. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Marc Solsona. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.79.0	Well, good morning. President, councillor, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, therefore, the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos has presented this motion on territorial inequalities. First of all, and before entering the movement, allow for a brief intervention or introduction to this topic. From Junts per Catalunya we don't like to talk about territorial inequalities, as we don't like to talk about empty or empty Catalonia, or as we don't like to talk about a Catalonia with different intensity, or as we don't like to talk about an assisted Catalonia. We like to talk about territorial reptes, policies of estimation and repulsion, territorial equity, territorial cohesion, local development, democratic reptes, capturing opportunities, and a wide range of things. To list the challenges that make us stronger than not installing and perpetuating a speech that, for a very kindly intention that it should be, does not help, let us say, in concepts of neuromarqueting, to a Catalonia that can compete territorially in the world from anywhere in the country. This asymmetric Catalonia of what we talk about is this; asymmetry is not unequal, it is asymmetry, just as singularity is not unequal, it is singularity. Therefore, if we know how to find in the singularity there, that value added to be able to compete, we may be able to reverse this speech, which in the background has a lot and a lot of sense but it depends on how we explain it can change things. Parliamentarian, the « Living country is not an occurrence of President Torra, the « Living country is this, it is an opportunity to make and articulate cross-border policies of the country in order to face up to the reptes that this motion is presented here today; a young man, as it has been said, will be approved in his majority, because it is open, does not seek disagreement, but seeks to find agreement, and therefore does this vision of identifying who are the reptes to which we must face and try to seek the maximum consensus in order to do so. Thank you also that we can enter this young man the papers that we have presented since the Group of Joints for Catalonia and the Group Republicà, where we had an influence on the subject of the trains of the Avlo to Lleida, which can stop and not only go far. Opportunities must not go beyond the territory, they must be able to stop and see them in the territory. As well as seeing this vision that we no longer deploy... the goal is not to deploy optical fiber, the goal of the country is to complete the deployment of optical fiber. Therefore, as we can see that it will be a reality, go there for all. Therefore, I also thank him for having accepted us. As well as saying that in the 2020 budget, this, singularity, is incorporated. And from the Department of Presidency, of Local Administrations, they bet by this singularity that they recognize the value of the population, the density of the population, the value of what the territory would be, in order to be able to make the recalculation of what the Local Cooperation Fund set up or also the assignment of the plans of the PUOSC. Therefore, this country view recognizes the diversity of this also stands in value with this assumption that we expect to approve in brief. A young lady who also talks about the fruit of sweetness, as she said. Today we carry, this week we carry the green light; tomorrow two-quarters of god of the morning at Sant Joan Square there will be the demonstration« Save the page, we defend the rural world. We'll be there and ask for the next one. Just like..., there is the same distance from Lleida to Barcelona, to put an example, that from Barcelona to Lleida. And that's not uneven; it's the same, huh? It's the same distance from one place to another. Simply what we say is that if we really believe that the primary sector is strategic and that it is going through a complicated time, the same complicity and equality at the time of attending demonstrations can be reversible, and that we are not only going from Lleida to Barcelona to defend the rights but can also go from Barcelona to Lleida to accompany us tomorrow at the event. So, nothing more. We try, therefore, to continue with this line of finding the agreements. We have also had a meeting with the people of the Workers' Committees on the subject of how to look at these deficiencies, which do not have to be equal, are deficiencies in which, in the service of rolling and also in the subject of high-speed trains to the Lands of Lleida, we try to sum up actors, try to seek complicity, try to make a purposeful look at where we were stronger together. And from here we are competitive in the country, because we have a lot of raw materials to put it in value, we have a country with a lot of resources and above all we have people who are able to transform the reps that are proposed in position to make us better. So, nothing more. And we will, logically, approve this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.80.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, the deputy Dimas Gragera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.81.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, good morning..., good afternoon now. We wanted to begin by thanking the group proposing the motion, the group of the commons, which gives the opportunity to speak in this plenary – although today we have also seen another question from my group – about the rural world and about the territorial inequalities that we consider to exist and we have no objection to defining that in this way. We agree on many of the points that arise and, above all, after all the transactions and additions we have seen in this negotiating period since the tabling of the amendment. We are going to vote in favour of the vast majority of the points, understanding that they really point to a reality that is existing and that is undeniable. Then we can have nuances or we can have divergent views on whether it is the best way to approach it, but we believe that only they bring in and raise the debate..., then we will follow up on compliance. We are surprised that you in this motion assume the separatist framework of urging the Government of Spain to carry out, of urging the Government of Spain to do, when you..., I know that it is hard to believe it, and many Spaniards too, but you are part of the Government of Spain, with which, if you have so much will, what you have to do is to do it and not to put yourself here to urge. But, I say to you, we share with you the need to effectively increase support for the rural world, support for the agricultural sector; we share the need to ensure a decent health system throughout the territory, to improve infrastructure, to invest, to plan for the proper installation of renewable energy, to develop environmental projects. And we also agree with you on the issue of the digitisation of the territory, whether by fiber optics or something that does not arise many times in this Parliament, which is also the 5G. That is why I say to you that the vote will be favourable, but we cannot forget the context in which this motion is being tabled, the moment in which this motion is being tabled. The Socialist Party's colleague said earlier that he was missing, and we too were missing, more specific budget allocations and commitments. And since many proposals are yours and come after an agreement with the Government, we cannot isolate this debate from the budget debate, because that is where the priorities really are, because that is where the proposals really are, and many of them are not reflected. Because we believe that, if they want to combat territorial inequalities, supporting budgets that are only going to promote inequalities is not the right way to go. And I say to you, and we will repeat it to you, every time you come to talk about proposals, about commitments, we will tell you and we will get the issue out of the budgets, because you are also going to be responsible from now on for all the management that this government does in terms of budget allocation. Because, look, you tell us about aid and support for the rural world, but in the budgets we see that you dedicate more items to TV3 or to the creation of tax agencies of their own than those that go to the rural world. Or we see, for example, that you are concerned about the local world, but at the time of truth you are spending more on external action than on local action, than on investment in neighbourhoods, than on investment in municipalities. We see that you bet on digitization, but in the end what you do is to shield Mr. Puigneró's digital republic. We see how they allocate EUR 500_million to CTTI, an opaque body, a supra-financed body, which does not know what concrete contribution it has to Catalonian citizens. And we see how you are going to provide more than EUR 15 million a year to the Cybersecurity Agency, that Catalan CNI that the government uses to spy on us. As I say, with these 15_million_euros, look, I'm going to give you an example, you could do five schools a year, or five hospitals, or twenty Galapagar chalets. [[applause]] , so that the people of the commons understand me. In short – I have little time left – you talk about infrastructure, but in the end you support separatist structures. The other day in a rather interesting interview Mr. Pablo Iglesias said that supporting the government of Pedro Sánchez were going to swallow a few frogs. I say to you that by supporting the separatist gentlemen's budget you are going to swallow the whole cove. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the last place, it is the turn of the deputy Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.83.0	Good morning to all of you and to all of you again. Well, some of the questions raised by the rest of the parliamentary groups and the rest of the groups that have spoken to them are shared. First, in general terms, it is almost impossible to say that this motion is not; therefore, we will vote in favour. They plant some of the reptes. But it is obvious, and I will not insist, with the time I have, on some of the questions that have already been said. If when I heard Junts' deputy speak for Catalonia about the «Living country, and whenever I hear about it, it makes me feel like it's more of a slogan than not a real plan and effect, this young man, I know hard, but it's also a bit of a slogan, because not concrete calendars, because not concrete assumptions. For example, for what it does to recover assumptions and health services, I know better than that the assumptions that you have approved do not incorporate better in this sense and do not arrive at the 2010 figures. And, in addition, they propose a follow-up of questions that we believe are important, but that they also know that they are not binding, and that, therefore, in the materialization of these priorities, you are not putting the emphasis on them, and you have not done so in your negotiation of assumptions, from our point of view, although we do share some questions. We, often said, have the feeling that the image that is from Barcelona in the rural world, of this singularity that is spoken of, has more to see with a myth, with this idea of the space of rest, of the space of the oci. And we always claim that rural space is not exclusively a space where there must be exclusively agriculture, but that those small towns, those more rural places must be places to live there, to live there working and living of whatever. We consider that from the left we have an objective that is no less: to suffice a valid project for the non-metropolitan popular classes and to plant as small and medium-sized municipalities become an engine of social justice and territorial revolution. And all this is done in a context in which today our country lies in a 70_per_cent..., its food lies in a 70_per_cent of exports abroad. I ended up talking about the Delta at the last point. We want to remember – and allow a little flexibility... –: the survival of the Delta does not go through immediate emergency measures, it goes through a consensus, which is amplified [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and that today the self-appointed consensus table is not prioritizing, that is that the river low water and sediments; a great river will make us a big delta, a small river will lead us to a small river. Today, the embassements or transvassations have lost 95 percent of the sediments. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.84.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.85.0	...on Hebrew, priorities: sediments and water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce now on the papers, has the word the deputy Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.87.0	Well, thank you. Mr Rodriguez, you're right; it's primary attention, actually. Mr. Ordeig, we also share the vision of the government's lack of coordination in this camp. We set the rural agenda as the mechanism and the interdepartmental commission as the lead space, but what we see is a government that is being discussed, a government with two areas, Presidency and Agriculture, trying to work on the same theme, that they do not cooperate but compete, that they are doing the travet and that it is obvious that we do not go anywhere. Indeed, all this has to be resourced. It's also true that we're in an open presupposition debate. So, we understand that this is a young man, and here the fears that we need to carry are those of one young man and not those of the presuppositional debate, which is going through another channel. Congressman Solsona was talking to us, wasn't he? ...I think there's some confusion between diversity and inequality. I mean, actually, Catalonia has singularities, it's different, isn't it? The Lands of Ponent produce sweet fruit; Osona, therefore, are powerful in the branch, right? ; to the Jew, with the end, and, therefore..., and to the mountain, therefore, with the activities of the mountain. So this is the singularity. Now, at the same time, Catalonia is unequal, and the people of the territories have made different and access to different services. And that's what we want to put on the table with this young man, because the answer to inequality is just territorial equity. And to Ciutadans's company, mirin, our brand is not separatist to urge the government of the State to comply with its commitments; this is supposed to be sharing sovereignties, this is plurinationality. And the problem is that you're the only way they have to hear the State is this centralist, nationalist view. And, I know it's hard, but Spain is not that; Spain is not that, neither is it, nor can it be, because Spain is plurinational, they like it or they don't like it. And this is the sense of the need to share sobrieties. And to the CUP, to end, simply tell it that the assumptions, therefore, in the area of sanitation is precisely one of the areas in which they are better and are higher than in 2010. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.88.0	Thank you. Are there separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.89.0	Yeah. Mrs. Caula, Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.90.0	Demanarian voted separately from the 1a and 3a points, which for us it is possible to vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.91.0	All right. Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.92.0	7, 8, 10, 11, who can go together too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.93.0	All right. I Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.94.0	4 and 6, that they can also go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.95.0	All right. So let's move on to... [[Marc Parés Franzi asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.96.0	Just to make it clear that, in point 3a, health care must be said to be primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.97.0	Okay. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak and the president gives her the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.98.0	Point number 4, I don't know if you'd asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.99.0	Number four with number six, right? [[Pause.]] So, separate. All right, so let's start voting, first of all, points 1a and 3a– 1a and 3a. The vote begins. These two points have been approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. This was approved by 94 votes to 38. And now we're voting the block of points 7, 8, 10 and 11. Start voting. These points were approved by 115 votes in favour, against and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.100.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the session... [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry about the lack of just financing of culture]] [[302-00187/12]] ...with the fifteenth point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the lack of a just financing of culture, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Rafael Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.101.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. Also a greeting to the people who accompany us from Acta Cultura, who have followed all these processes that we have been doing, both at the inquiry as today to the youth, and I want to thank them, obviously, therefore, their presence. This is a motion, as a result of an inquiry, which coincides with the question of assumptions. The truth is, it wasn't a voluminous or voluntary thing, what happens is, that's what it was like. Therefore, welcome to this coincidence, because we believe that we are still in time to improve the premise of culture, if we have political will, among all, because that is so. The young lady is four points. In the first one, what we say is that Parliament finds that the Department of Culture's presupposition for this year 2020 is insufficient. We think that this is accepted by the group of parliamentary groups, I think we all agree; and even the whole council, to the inquiry, with the answer that he gave us, it is obvious, therefore... that it is easy to interpret that he would also agree. Therefore, we do not believe that there should have been any problem because this point was voted and approved. Point 2, the Parliament of Catalonia notes the great gap between the cultural reversal in Catalonia and the countries and regions around us. Bé; data: 2010 Catalonia had a presumption of 337_million euros per culture, which represented around '1_per_cent; 2017, 246_million euros, that is to say, minus, 0.65; 2020, 281_million euros, 0.61_per_cent. Because, obviously, it pushes the premise of culture, but it pushes even more the conjunction of the assumption of the Generality. So, as a percentage, let's go down. In investment per inhabitant, Denmark, 800_euros per inhabitant; Holland, 500; Portugal, 120; Andorra, 108; we are at 40. Therefore, we also believe that it is; there should not have been an excessive problem because this second point of the vote is also voted unanimously, because the data is quite clear. For what it does to the third, the incorporation into the presuppositions of 2020 of 120_millions additional to lie down..., if it is not above all, but at least we do lie down in an important way to '1_per_cent. Well, that's just about one thing: it's about dialogue and political will that goes on. The question, anyway, is: is there more money? If we want to, yes, there's more money. For example, the past diverging, the Tax and Finance Policy Council agreed that – and this was not expected to happen – the deficit could be moved from zero initially predicted to 0.2. This means about 500_million euros more, additional, for Generality expenses, which are not in the presupposition. I know not all 500 can be spent, but only half the half of these five hundred, if we really believe that Culture is one of the most disadvantaged in the presentation of assumptions, in the initial version of assumptions, that it is the one we have on the table... so we believe that yes, we will be able to have enough resources as this is possible. And for what it does to point number 4, so present to the Parliament of Catalonia a concrete and temporary plan to reach 2_per_cent. We are talking about a demand for the Conca long ago, for the Platform Actua Cultura..., it is not a matter of our parliamentary group, all parliamentary groups have approved it. Without going any further, on October 9, 2018, which we claimed and approved, therefore, with a large majority, that 1 and a half percent, in this assumption, is intended for culture. We're a party that wants to be a responsible party, we're a government party. We are aware of the difficulties to square the numbers and, therefore, despite the fact that there is an important agreement of this Parliament, claiming 1 and a half percent, we in this day and age are listening... 120_million more, which means to lie down at '1, we seem to be already an important step, if there is a real political will after that. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, Vice President – because in the space of three, four years, we could reach 2_per_cent. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, President. [[Rialles. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.102.0	No problem, Congressman. Thank you. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Héctor Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.103.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, councillor, members of Actua Cultura, who also accompany us today, very good afternoon to all. I want to ask you a relatively simple question. Do any of you believe that culture has been well funded in Catalonia over the past few years? I believe that the answer we all have is obvious; the obvious answer is no. This year's budget underfunded culture, exactly as it has been doing for the past ten years. And it is that the nationalist parties are always filling their mouths with culture, and today we have heard them say, for example, that culture is the fundamental pillar of our society. But I wanted to ask them what they've done for culture in the last decade. And I'm going to tell you: it's constantly cutting the culture budget. That, as good nationalists, what they have done is tear down the cultural foundations, until the sector is plunged into a deep crisis. Do you know how much you invested in culture in 2011? 302_million_of_euro. Do you know how much money is going to be invested in culture if this 2020 budget is to be approved? 301_million_of_euro. If the increase in the CPI is calculated over the last ten years in Catalonia, the investment for 2020 will be 31_million_of_euro less than what was invested in 2011. The culture budget is still in a clear setback. Culture – I have to tell you – is the last of its priorities. All departments have a higher investment, currently, than it was in 2011; all except the Department of Culture, which remains the great forgotten of this government. Is this the value you give to culture? That 0.65_per_cent invested in 2019? The problem of the cultural system posed by nationalism, for us, is not just a budgetary problem, which is already serious in itself. To the budgetary problem must be added a lack of vision for the future, a lack of strategy, a lack of political leadership, a lack of public-private collaboration tools, a clear lack of setting objectives of the role of culture in Catalonia. It is that this government has absolutely no strategy for culture in Catalonia. That is why we, I have to tell you, have tabled an amendment, to draw up a strategic plan for culture, with the 2030 horizon. What we regret – and I have to tell you, Members of the PSC – that they have not accepted this amendment, because it is necessary to have a long-term strategic plan, because data, for example, on the cultural industry and on cultural consumption in Catalonia have evolved negatively throughout the decade. The total expenditure of citizens on culture increased from about 6,300_million in 2010 to 5,400_million in 2017. Annual cultural expenditure per inhabitant in 2010 was €850_per inhabitant. In 2017, it went down to 725. The volume of business in the cultural sector is lower today than in 2010. Between 2008 and 2015, the number of workers in the cultural sector was reduced by 26,000 workers; from 132,000 workers to just over 106,000. The number of companies has tended to fall steadily and to a current stagnation. Between 2002 and 2015, it increased from 42,000 companies to 36,500, to just over 36,500. But in addition to these two problems, the problem of funding and the problem of the lack of a strategic project, we must add another problem, which is the serious problem called cultural fundamentalism. Not only do we have to endure Mr Torra's racist texts, in which he calls us beasts in human form, but also the last two "consellers" signed another exclusive text such as the Koiné Manifesto, in which we speak of the Spanish speaking as instruments of colonization. In addition, the current councillor uses expressions that refer to the Catalan race. And yesterday, for example, a deputy spoke of native Catalans, and distinguished by their physical features or accent. Do you know what the result of identity and essentialist politics is? The systematic and organized exclusion of the cultural participation of those citizens who feel identified with Spanish as their usual language. And I'm not telling you, the test will be found in a study of the Conca, which is called « Cultural participation in Catalonia, 2013-2016. The study shows that those who identify with Catalan practice more cultural activities than those who identify with Spanish, who practice less cultural activities. And cultural practice depends on educational capital, depends on the profession and depends on the social environment. Seeing the aversion that some of you feel for everything that sounds Spanish, I am not surprised that those of us who speak Spanish are systematically penalized in education, in the profession and in the social environment. What this study shows us is that, in Catalonia, nationalism has implemented a system dominated by identity and essentialist fundamentalism, which systematically excludes those people we identify with Spanish from cultural practices. And what do nationalists do to close this gap? They do absolutely nothing, on the contrary, they encourage it. And it is that, in Catalonia – and with this I finish already – the problem of culture is the low budget, it is the lack of long-term strategy, but it is also cultural fundamentalism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.104.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.105.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone, councillors, companies of Acta Cultura... Started– or ended, I don't remember– Congressman Bruguera said that this is a question of political will and that it coincided with the assumptions, and I assume that with our vote in favour of point 4, you will approve the assumptions of the Generalitat of 2020, if it is a question of political will and if what we want is this 2_per_cent; I understand that responsibility was not only with this young man, but also with the assumptions of the Generalitat. And a few days ago, the councillor came to the committee and we said that we are aware that the premise of the Department of Culture does not correspond to the many, complex and varied needs that the country has in matters of culture. And we can agree on this, just as we can agree that the rise of the Department of Culture is objectively superior to the middle of the rest of the departments, as we have been these past few days. And that means there's enough? What can we already give for satisfaction? Of course not. And that is neither the attitude nor the compromise they have neither the vice president nor the councillor respects cultural finance. And we could agree on that point, huh? , where there are many reps to take over. But that's as true as the department did, and don't mention these questions too we find it a lack, therefore, of rigour before this compromise. And in this line, we made a statement, number 2, in which we talk about the efforts the department has made to hold these assumptions with more than €7.1 per inhabitant, which is equivalent to €40 per inhabitant. But... I'll be right back, huh? That's not enough, we don't grow up with these forty euros per inhabitant. And in the same way that we want to make sense of the effort – and as you can see, this is an intervention full of nuances and contradictions–, in the same way that we take and appreciate this Government's effort and commitment, we also want to show our commitment, as a group that supports the Government, with these assumptions, that they have an increase – and we can't forget it and not say it would be a mistake – of 37,1_million euros, representing 14,2. But we do not want to focus all the debate on the efforts and compromise, on the contradictions of the Government of the Generality on this issue and on which the Bruguera company, with this motion called "inadequacy of the presumption". Because, this failure, in any case, does not start and end only in the Catalan government, and we think that presenting this motion without mentioning it, is not giving all the information. The third point, therefore, is precisely to put the focus also on the historical lack of reversal, because speaking of insufficiency without commenting, with two lines, in the morning, on the state's shortcomings with Catalonia is a little harsh. I would not want to focus all the debate on the fact that it is all the fault of the Spanish State, which all the responsibility is its own, because it is not just that, but we do believe that, in the same way that the opposition places the focus on the Government of Catalonia, it is a more responsible opposition if, at the time of putting the focus on Catalonia, they also, as heads of the State Government, assume the share of contradiction and infra-finance that they do not with the Department of Culture but with the Catalan Government. For this historical deuteronomy, I, as part of the Republican Group, therefore, have a proposal, which is called the Catalan Republic, among others, and as you form part of socialism, and therefore also have a proposal, even though they defend it every time with the smallest mouth, that we can say it federalism or we can say it plurinationality, and more so it is added to the dialect cart after voting 155 and applauding the pressure of our fellow citizens, so that this opposition that you give, responsible, did not only ask for and speak of this 2_per_cent but also point out that we are taking these money, because if you have asked and asked for it, but that you do not answer to this government at all. And those words from the Committee on Culture will sound like them, but I'll take a few details that the Councilwoman served, that with this deficit of €16,000_million per year, six days of deficit we'll multiply the assumption by two, one day we'll multiply the action to promote Catalan culture abroad, and, if you let me hide at home, one day we'll make a reading plan for Catalonia. So we all assume the responsibility that surrounds us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, it has the word deputy Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.107.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, members of Actua Cultura, bona tarda. First of all, I wanted to thank the fellow Members of the European Parliament for their talks, opinions, some negotiations, papers, non-acceptable papers and transactions, which, unfortunately, would have helped to get out of these first two points of the 'always negative', to which we would not have just given support. I would like to note my satisfaction because this House is a plethora of culture, as we have seen today, as we have discussed these days with the presuppositional question. Running away from great things, because we don't have enough time, as Narcis Clara said yesterday, modestly requires that culture be treated fully as a fourth pillar of the welfare state, and that the assumptions are gradually reflected in this intention. I told the vice president that investing in blessing is a bet of these assumptions, and I would like to modestly share with him that investing in culture is also investing in blessing. The Administration responds to our welfare when we lack health and social services, but when the citizenry no longer has these deficiencies the culture is the main provider of personal welfare, and, by extension, of benefiting the community: culture to co-ordinate, to transform, to vertebrate, as the company Montserrat Macia referred to this morning; culture is also bet for the interests of the citizenry. The councillor said so in committee; the councillor said so in this chamber, in the inquiry, and, as far as you are not clear, Mr. Bruguera, I also repeat it today: these assumptions are better, even though they are not the best assumptions. And they can't be the best because we come from a crisis of great dimensions, and addressing the crisis in the sense that it's built up is to have a sense of state, as Teresa Pallares, a companion of hers, noted. To make a motion, in the third point, asking for 120_millions– is 40_percent of the current assumption–, to make a motion in this sense, a party that aspires to have responsibilities of government..., we say that they do not finish calling the two questions. Not to mention that the post-October 17 repression situation is obvious, that it has not helped to have some assumptions later, and that the PSC is obvious, because the profile with repression is more comfortable. He knows perfectly well that these assumptions increase by more than 50_million and he knows perfectly well that the fiscal deficit is cultural deficit. Of what territorial dialect, Mrs. Granados, did you speak to us before yesterday: of what does Barcelona penalize respect for Madrid's equipment? Why so much more does Queen Sofia respect the MNAC? If the State were just the Department of Culture would not have to assume the role in the invisible practice of the Spanish State. Are we talking about the non-recovery of the audiovisual fee that this government has to pay after the Constitutional Court's refusal? Shouldn't these laws be returned? They help us, please, take note of it, also the companies of commons: the tax is very necessary to resume the audiovisual activity in Catalonia, to resume the talent we have, to make it work and to make the activity in the audiovisual industry cumbersome. We want more money for culture, and we're starting to have it, got half full. It is also true, however, that it seems to our parliamentary group that the current expenditure assumption should be significantly higher than 287_millions of expenditure, and that this import added up when financing finalist and the consolidated should quietly exceed 350_millions. This would have been in line with what President Torra referred to when he said that this was culture, freedom and talent. And we would appreciate it if, in this statement derived from the money added to the retouching of the flexibility of the deficit, plus the rule of spending, they put culture in its place. This is why we firmly believe in the table or in the agreement for the public funding that the councillor and the vice president have announced, an agreement and an insertion of more premises that allow us to be stronger in some of the programs of the department, already of ateneus, of associations, of popular culture, of library, of museums, of Pla d'arxius, of creation, of Catalan language, of Catalan letters, of the publishing sector, of internationalization, of heritage, of music, of scenic arts, etc. I'm done, Members of Parliament. With the permission of Martí and Pol, I am now threading this needle with the thread of a proposal that I am saying: the assumptions I want are those of the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.108.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.109.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, councillors, members of Actua Cultura. We appreciate that in the context of this Ple, where we have given processing to the assumptions, this motion allows us to talk about the cultural assumption. The situation in the cultural sector has been overly described and we have been accumulating years of presupposition and detail that have caused a flood of presuppositions of up to 35_per_cent compared to the year 2010. We have done a responsibility exercise to overcome a lost decade for the country and let the retails back up. And that's what we're doing, too, for the social and cultural sectors that have suffered in their day-to-day blocking and governance that we're immersed in. We want to put this black cycle of retailing back together, and what we think we need to do to achieve it is to allow there to be a few assumptions to recover the public spending levels expected in retailing. And, certainly, the assumption of Culture does not satisfy us, it is not the assumption that we would want, but it is better this one than following another year with a presuppositional prorogation. And I think that we share this with both the cultural sectors and the group that is proposing this motion. We agree and claim that the problem of culture in Catalonia has to do with the lack of public investment, that is, with insufficient presuppositionary policy. And, yes, we want the assumptions with a per capita investment that you equate us to European standards. In the presupposition agreement with the Government we have been able to increase 37,1_million additional euros; we have reached the 2_per_cent cultural level, but we can begin to incorporate increments in the programs of the department and of the allocations for the creators, creators, cultural associationism, etc. We have said this repeatedly, Catalonia urgently needs new assumptions and immediately new elections to govern this country with new opportunities for change and prosperity. The Department of Culture is left with a great deal of credit for coming to the attention of the needs caused by the years of detail and an abandoned cultural policy. We do not forget the financing for artistic teachings, by the impulse of popular culture, for creators and creators, or the deployment of sign language, or in the end of everything that allows us to make this paradigm shift in culture, in the cultural policy of Catalonia. Because, as the social cohesion tool it is, culture has to regain centrality and be a true basic pillar of our welfare state. As it is, we must make it possible for culture to reach everyone, without exclusions, and also to bet on the intercanvi, the mestisage, the visibility of all the cultural diversity that surrounds them and that is present to our peoples and cities. We refer to the advisor's announcement on the creation of a_table between Economy, Culture and Culture to open the dialogue with the sector and support structural changes in the subject of supposition. We trust that there will be good agreements and that these will be easier to achieve with the additional resources we will have for the decision of the Government of the State to make the deficit objective more flexible. We demand from the Government of the Generality that an important part of these resources vacate culture, as the president of my parliamentary group, Jessica Albiach, has already said. And, Mr. Bruguera, we will approve of the motion in most points. You know that a presupposition that begins to recover from austerity has difficulties to redistribute 120_million euros, but if you have the formula to do so, tell me today we look to work too. And, my dear, with the agreement of assumptions we have managed to increase the revenues of the Generality of 2020 by 172_million euros, which for the next exercise will already be 552_million euros. For us it will not be, that we look for ways to have the most resources to make social policies. And now let us be able to make it possible, this time yes, some of us presuppositions to the State that possess the Catalan culture of the presupposition that it deserves. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.110.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.111.0	Good afternoon. Since the UPC we will also give support to the motion presented for the Socialist Party. We, of course, think that culture should obviously be a priority, not of this government, but of any government, of any society. And, in fact, the deputy of Ciutadans raised, from his perspective, some of the big problems. And in the short time that I have I would like to focus on one of the most important questions, that have not been obvious and that Catalan culture is crossed by this question, that it is the real advisors and advisors of Culture in the shadow, that it is the great companies and corporations that today monopolize the great cultural events. And why do I want to talk about this? If we understand culture as a tool, as a main structure of a society, as a tool and an element of creation, as a popular space of creation, to enhance critical experience, today we find that it is the great corporations that bring much more than the same Department of Culture to cultural creation. And they do this from a very concrete perspective; they do this from a perspective that sees cities as their brand, from a perspective that sees culture as an opportunity for negotiation, that is, beyond the cultural industry, the industrialization of culture. And we look with concern at this idea, because certainly, if the Department of Culture brings half of what the Box, Coca-Cola, Star Damm, etc., is that surely this agreement between what we mean by "public culture and private culture is much more complicated and much more structured in our society. We understand culture as a social right, and there are no social rights without universal access to culture. Culture is also political, but above all, necessary, a social model, for its free hatching and, from our perspective, also revolutionary. This young man... we agree: we are in the past where we should be. But we do want to put on the table this idea and worry that we look at... as culture is more and more in our country every day in the hands of private corporations than its ultimate interest is this true interest and essence of culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.113.0	Thank you, President. A greeting also to the representatives of Actua Cultura. When the presuppositions of 2020, which we are discussing these days here in Parliament, were presented to us, it is said that they were the presuppositions of the recovery of the highest presuppositions of history, which were in 2010. And I am sure that in other policy areas we can discuss whether this is true or not; we cannot discuss whether the 2010 assumptions have been recuperated in the field of culture: in comparable terms, EUR 320_million was allocated to 2010 and enguany, by 2020, is expected to be allocated to hi267. So it's obvious there's a difference. I've tried... I didn't remember that 2010 was independent or there was no republic, but we were exactly the same as now: a community with a funding model – certainly, the same as now – and what you see is that 2010 was more likely to allocate resources to culture. Surely there would be less state infrastructure and more interest in deepening the cultural theme, right? And that's what he's probably missing. Second element: Completing Parliament's agreements. We often feel that Parliament's agreements are to be completed, they are to be completed, they are to be completed, but it seems that the government is only interested in completing Parliament's agreements in what they are interested in, right? Now say the mediator, the rapporteur or I don't know what... "listen, this is a must compliment, isn't it? So the Parliament also agreed to allocate 1.5_percent of the budget to culture and did not complete it. So we also demand, as a minimum, the compliment of this Parliament agreement. And it can no longer be expected to reach 1 and mig per cent by the year 2020, but at the time I think we can't, we don't have to give up. But we don't want any more cultural resources at the government's disposal, we don't want any more cultural resources at the councillor's disposal. We want cultural resources at the disposal of cultural agents, at the disposal of businesses, at the disposal of creativity, at the disposal of the joint venture of the Catalan society, of the plurality and diversity of Catalans, which are the uses of culture. That is why we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.114.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mr Rafel Bruguera has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.115.0	Thank you, President. For what he does to the papers, to the Member of Parliament, we have not accepted his, not because we do not agree, that we are absolutely in agreement; simply because we believe that it is not an object..., and it would divert the focus from what is actually the object of this motion, as it was from the inquiry, which was to focus it on the assumptions. Therefore, if you, this point, enter it with a young man, be calm, that we will vote for it absolutely. For what you do to the Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, Mrs. Díaz, Catalonia has exclusive competitions in the field of culture; therefore, there are no excuses. In other questions it may be questionable, but not in this one. « Each person must assume the responsibility that surrounds him. So much! Look, there's not 37 million more, it's not true that there's 37 million more. Because you count the Feder font, you count the cultural 1_per_cent, when 2017 is not there and, therefore, you should add it. Therefore, there are no 37_million_i_mig nets of euros more for culture than 2017, there are no. And we're down to a percentage. I repeat: they're no better than 2010. Mr. Rodriguez said it, I don't insist. And, for what you do to Mr. Ten, today we have discovered one thing: to see if waiting for the Catalan Republic this country will be left without cultural industries. [[Greetings.]] Because the problem is: all right, it's legitimate, but while what? What message do we send to the cultural sector? What did you experience until the hypothetical republic? Why then is there nothing to do? Is that what they're saying? Frankly, excuses for a bad payer, there's no more. This young man is the proof of the quota to see if there has really been political will, that there are sufficient resources to increase, even if little remains, the premise destined for culture of 2020. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.116.0	Thank you, Members. We called for a vote. [[Pause. Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.117.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 2 and point 4. Separated, please. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak and the president gives her the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.118.0	Yes, separate vote from the 3; therefore, I believe from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.119.0	All right. So we'll vote separately for all the points of this young man. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 67 votes to 65, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 67 votes to 2, with 63 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 58 votes in favour, 64 against, 8 abstentions and 1 Member present who did not vote. And now we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of young people]] [[302-00188/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, the seven, which is the motion following the question to the government about the young people's situation. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to defend it has the word the deputy Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.120.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today our group presents a motion after the inquiry that we did last week, a motion that we wanted to be, if not, curious. The issue of young people, as you know, is a subject that this Parliament deals with often, a subject that is of great importance to our group, and what we have wanted in this case is to compile a series of points that this Parliament has already voted – most of its members – it has already approved, and what it wants to do today is to manifest the government's failure and, therefore, to bring them back to vote in this Parliament, because it is once and for all fulfilling. In addition, after the process that has taken place, we have been able to add points that have also improved the youth and that in the second intervention, therefore, I will already comment. First of all, one of the problems that most affects young people, as you know, is housing. It is the crisis that young people suffer the most, together with the crisis of occupation and below. Therefore, the housing we have wanted to be one of the first points that appears in this young man, and, as you know, therefore, we want to expand the public park and, moreover, also encourage the alternative tenance of housing to seek alternatives to this purchase or to find that it is practically impossible for any young man in this country. We also wanted to recover an old initiative that was in this country, that was helping them to get there for under thirty-five years; some help that allowed many generations to emancipate when resources were lacking and that at a time when much is needed, so obviously they do not find them. And we want the government to put them back on the table, because they're very and very important to get the young people's emancipation back. For what it does to aspects linked to the occupation, which occupy a large part of this young man, we also want a gesture of increasing the inspector's activity for which it does to sectors that are basically monopolized by young people, such as riders, famous for their accidents that have these past weeks in Barcelona, among many other places. And also, naturally, other autonomous sectors that also suffer..., of great young collection that form part of it and that in the end what they do is to precarious their work day after day. Of course, it is also a subject that is a source of complaint in this Parliament, at least, seven years, that it is to set aside a juvenile return plan for the people who have to leave this country, so that there are no opportunities, and that we now want to return, and return with guarantees, to return with a certain follow-up process; do not return, let us say, with one hand to the front and another behind. Let us remember that in this Parliament, then a counselor, named Councillor Mena, accompanied the young people to go to London to serve coffee. What we want is for them to come back here not to serve coffee, but to do a job of better quality. That's why we want a youthful return plan, because they come here accompanied, have a job placement and have a stable job too. And, obviously, we also ask that travel expenses be accompanied in this process, as do other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia or Castella, without going any further. Another point that is very important to us is that the government once and for all summons the working group to address the issue of work practices in this country. The other day the councillor, passing on his intervention in which we commented, discussed this subject, commented that the Labour Relations Council was on the subject in this case; but the surprise was that, when reading the compliment control of the place where this point was approved, the Labour Relations Council said that it was no longer on its table, it was not its competence and therefore it returned the pilot to the government because it acted, with which this point is more opportune than ever and, counsel, they ask that this group be summoned as soon as possible and is able to work as soon as possible. Because we have a lot of people who with the mark and with the umbrella and the excuse to make some practices for their training, to improve their insertion..., what we do is to precarise the young people of this country: with too low or without any kind of self, they have to pay for the transport and they still have to make way for the company that contracts them. Therefore, we need to put it there and start addressing this problem, which is very important for many young people. Also a theme that was approved in this Parliament and that was forgotten is a cultural theme – before it was talked about culture in this Faristol – is to implement T-culture, an initiative that the municipal world already works in some areas and that we want it also to be at the level of all Catalonia. A T-culture that implies a 100-euro bonus for young people and young people who share years, because they make cultural consumption in the broadest sense – cinema, books, theatre, culture in general – and who can consume it, since they also know that access to culture by many young people is difficult under conditions of job insecurity. Another point that will not sound strange to this Parliament is that we want it to be deployed once and for all the FP law. It's a theme that has been on the table for five years, and it's been a long time since we asked for this FP law to be on the table, and obviously, it's like the Parliament approached it once and for all, and you do it to close this cycle, that we carry, as I said, five years of this theme. In general, what we want is for this Parliament, apart from talking a lot about young people, to begin to put a thread in the needle. We wear many lost years, many generations that have had to go, and what we want is for them to come back with guarantees and, those who are here, they can have a better future than they have now. Parliament can do this, it has the capacity and it has a mandate already from this Parliament to pull forward, with which today we want to reaffirm this mandate, which is taken into consideration and which once and for all this government is taken seriously by the young people of this country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the MP Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.122.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillor, the cruelest consequences of this decade of crisis, austerity and cuts have meant a deterioration of equal opportunities, of the social lift, and a deterioration of the rights and material conditions of life. And, as has been said, this has had a special impact on young people. We will not tire of saying that none of this is casual, it is all the result of cruel policies that have dismantled social protection and rights, leaving a whole generation to their fate for whom public resources such as education, university, public health, work and housing have ceased to be a right to become a luxury to which access is even more difficult, and especially for the popular classes. We're going to leave this lost decade behind, and we're going to have to do it by rebuilding everything that's down. For this reason, Catalonia deserves to move into this new cycle with a new budget that supports the recovery of cuts and a new government that recovers the social and economic agenda. If anyone cries out for this change it is the young people who have put on the table the disasters of a cruel system socially and environmentally predatory. From the social and climate crisis we will come out with the push of this generation of young people. And for the time being this motion presents measures that must respond to the most prevailing needs of youth. The 27,7_per_cent youth unemployment is a very bad indicator for any government, especially for a government that didn't even bother to give way to European funds for the occupation, and let go of 80_million_de_euros to generate opportunities. This motion does not fall within the scope of occupation except for young people who have had to go abroad in search of employment opportunities. We agree with the proposal because it reflects the agreement that we have taken from En Comú Puermos to the government to allocate EUR 2.5 million to this youth return plan. Housing must again be a priority for public policies. Residential exclusion is an increasingly acute problem due to the speculation of the real estate market and the lack of public housing that can curb this speculation and guarantee the right to housing, to emancipate oneself and to undertake the project of life itself. Because it is such an essential issue for young people, we proposed the amendment to expand the housing stock for young people – I thank them for having incorporated it. It was also important to include in this motion on the situation of youth the need to address improvements in the mental health system. In the Youth Committee, as in every plenary, we know of the work they have done from the National Youth Council to address the problem of youth suicide and, thereby, all the prevention for good emotional health. The mental health system is collapsing, has great margins of improvement, and resources must be allocated for this. Hence our amendment, to allocate the budget increase in mental health to improving care for young people in health centres. Thirdly, the aggressive presence of online gambling has emerged as a serious problem among the youth population, which is largely their target. We have done specific work on this in my group and, therefore, we consider it important that this motion also refers to the fight against malice. On the other points – T-culture, vocational training, false autonomy and academic practices – we have already moved them that we will give them support. These are the major issues that we have worked on in the Youth Committee and that must be resolved urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mercè Escofet has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.124.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Gentlemen of the PSC, your present motion is a set of good intentions for young people, and it speaks of priorities or, better yet, of the non-priorities of this government, the non-solving of young people's problems and the oblivion of this collection by the government. But, gentlemen of the PSC, you are one of the main ones responsible for habitation failure, maturity and youth insecurity. Anem doesn't have any. The first three points of the motion want to end the problem of access to housing and property speculation, but here the different presidents of the Socialist Government of Spain, the tripartite one in Catalonia and the different socialist mayors of Barcelona have been responsible for the failed model of housing that has been there today. For example, in Barcelona there is only 2_percent of public housing stock, while large European cities equivalent in size and relevancy are around 20_percent. The numbers speak for themselves. The prices of the winemaker are too high. Its model was based on building public dwellings in the ownership system that then returned to the private market, instead of making suitable logger dwellings. Therefore, you have been necessary co-workers of the speculation that has occurred in this country. The high prices of the lodger are one of the great problems young people have to access a habitation. Regarding the points that speak of the flight of brains and the precariousness of our labor market, you are once again responsible for the loss of talent in Spain and the young people to seek a professional way out of our country. The Socialists have been responsible for Spain being the champion of the world in the dark. And the consequences that the workers pay, and above all the young people, are three: high rate of hard work, precarious work with low wages and lack of opportunities. To combat job insecurity, from Ciutadans we defended that a job reform would be necessary. Temporary contracts must disappear and replace them with indefinite contracts, in addition to increasing worker protection, betting on new technologies, green and circular economy and research. As everyone knows, from Ciutadans we have always apostatized for dual professional training, as there is in Germany, which combines work in company and training. We want all kinds of education and training to be of quality for everyone and that no one is left behind. And, besides, like we want a quality job for everyone, we pick up point 4, and we appreciate that we have come to a deal to increase the inspector's activity to all the locals, and, above all, to protect and vet young people's labor rights. Justice has already exposed the job insecurity of the rider sector, these dealers who were indeed workers and were falsely self-employed. In relation to point 9, we want a government of fact and don't say it. Why is Law 10/2015 not implemented, in training and professional qualification? Look, last week he approved a young man of ours who was looking at this. Facts and no words, let's ask the government. Young people do not deserve a government that, after almost five years, despite the law passed, does not take steps to combat job insecurity. And, finally, I know it's hard for me not to add our point 10 to the young man; I know it's hard for me to tank my eyes and look at it on the other side, and it's becoming accomplices to the lack of freedom of expression in certainly Catalan universities. The point we asked was: "To go to Catalan universities without any form of violence because of ideology, nationality, gender, sexual orientation and any other personal and social nature, and to condemn the continuous violent acts. Equal opportunities begin with equal treatment and do not allow any type of discrimination. From here, all the support for valiant students at Autonomous University and Pompeu Fabra University defending constitutionalism. And, gentlemen of the Government, how they read this week's chapter at the press, do not miss 1,000_million euros in leaving the process to be seen; please invest these money in our young people, in their homes, in their training and in their labour market. Invest in them, because they are our future. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.126.0	Thank you, President. Too late to all and so to all. We young people are now patenting the consequences of the recent economic crisis; an economic crisis that has led us, young people, to be the first generation to live under the economic shield of our parents and seas. Therefore, we still lack opportunities to be able to have an estabilitative and also to be able to advance better. But, little by little, these neoliberal details have been reversed that have had some difficult consequences for future generations. But, still, we can't stay here and celebrate that we continue to work from various backgrounds to combat the precariousness of all young people in the country. We want to continue working to improve active employment policies and thus consolidate a structure in our labour market that can fight temporary contracts, partiality, bass; that is, fight all precarious contracts. But it's that, in addition to that, even a couple of years ago, we find that many young people in the country see themselves working in jobs that, at times, put them at risk, such as the rider's collection, and that contemplates the youth. The riders sector is mostly occupied by young people. They work in precarious working conditions, there is legal insecurity and it cannot be avoided the perilousness they find in their work. And neither do we forget the death of the young Nepalese Pujan Koirala. And it is that, unfortunately, an important sector of young people who work there are in an irregular situation and use the work places of someone else who can work there, because they basically need to work. Even so, the Labour Inspectorate has done an important job of unravelling the reality of false autonomies – there is a feeling that supports it – it has performed activities in the sector, reported and acted with respect, and an adequate framework has been established within the social security system that corresponds to it. But it's that, in addition, businesses take advantage of young workers who need work and, if they spend more hours than a watch, then they can do more distributions and, therefore, they can charge more; but it's not taken into account that there are young people who depend on this work as they do on entrances. On the other hand, it also talks about the young people who had to go to the foreigner in search of opportunities; a consequence more of this crisis of the year 2012. Young people can't feel expelled from the country because of lack of opportunity, so, now, we also have to fight these speculations that lead working classes to precariousness. The fact of leaving for the foreigner must be a voluntary decision and fact from the desire, therefore, we fully agree that all young people who want to return do so in the best conditions and also with good guarantees. And, in fact, under the guany assumptions, they dedicate 2_million euros to the return plan. A return plan that needs to be coordinated with the SOC as well as with those entities that so desire. On the other hand, the young man also talks about practices. It has advanced because young people can study and train us, as with the drop in university fees, but it is obvious that we also want this catalaract of practices that the young person poses is pulled forward, as well as the deployment of the FP Law. But I also think that we need to remember that paid practices are state regulations and that it is only established that dual training practices are remunerated. He also talks about the right to housing, it is one of the main difficulties that does not guarantee young people emancipation, not being able to get out of the parental nucleus due to economic consequences. Therefore, we also agree that we need to change this paradigm of the concept of housing tenance, to move from the purchasing model to the housing alternatives, and to do so, so we also need to coordinate with the rest of the administrations to be able to promote and empower it, and that all young people in the country, and also all those people who wish to do so, can use it. Still, more help is needed in housing for young people, but I believe that little by little we are moving forward, and that most resources have also been allocated to deal with this housing emergency. But I don't think we're going to give up working to make sure that the country's young people don't get out of getting these help that allows us to emancipate ourselves, because we have the right to study, we have the right to work, we have the right to emancipate ourselves and we want to do it, all of this, because it's really a real right and independent of how we follow young people, regardless of our origin, of our kind, of our identity, of our social class. For this reason, we defend a reduction in university taxes, we demand the repeal of labor reform and the law bites and the law of foreign affairs, and we also captivate the fights before the climate emergency and we will never give up fighting the masculinist rapes. So young people are always there. You will find us in all social struggles and sharing, defending our rights and our freedoms and demanding a more just and dignified future for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the honourable Member Mònica Sales has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.128.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counselor, deputies, deputies, young people worry about us and occupy us. And in this SCP movement, the focus is on young people from our country, from different backgrounds and from different backgrounds. There is talk of housing and logging, of riders, of contracts, of ajuts, of practices and of the quality of practices, of culture, of training and professional qualification, of addictions to the game, etc., but there could be added much more themes for the transversality of the youth world in which multiple themes and multiple competitions are involved. It is true, and in the young person's case, that the youth sector is better equipped to cope with its problems and concerns, and above all to adapt to its reality. Vetillar for his day-to-day is Vetillar for the future, our future. Because the young people who are here today, they're the newer, they're tomorrow. The cross-cutting of youth policies is evident and it is for this reason that the Government addresses them from different councils, and for this reason this Parliament has a specific committee on young people. Together, the Republican and Joint Group for Catalonia have presented a series of items that have not been accepted and that have not been allowed to reach agreement with Mr Gibert. We tried, and I appreciate the coordinated work done with Congresswoman Rut Ribas, with whom she always works to her liking. But, despite the disagreements, without any doubt, we are willing to continue working for young people and for young people. That is our main objective, and that is why we voted in favour of most points, except one. For what it does at point 8, which intersects culture and young people, we regret that there has been no acceptance of the message presented that it intended to manifest the commitment of the Department of Culture in order to expand the line of promotion of cultural consumption among young people with various programs, such as Scene 25, of discounts for the divided band twenty-five, the Young Carnet, which hold young people in the band of twelve thirty, with discounts much higher than the cent_euros they propose, or other programs to design. We are not against the measures they propose, we are no longer applying, as you know, and we like to last them in term, for children, for adults and for young people; actions that could help us from a better start of the State in culture in Catalonia, since it carries years with a lack of systematic inversion. We shall vote in favour of the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixteenth, the set, the seventh, the ninth, the wish and the eleventh of the final document, they understand that the first point has withdrawn. They are points that speak of housing for young people and help to lodge; to fight false autonomies, such as riders; to set aside a youth return plan, with long-term contracts for young migrants and help; for a catal mark of quality of practices and to boost wages; for professional training; for the better of attention in mental health, and to fight, also, addiction to the game. In the third point, however, I have to be allowed a point, which is help to logue. We are voting in favour, aware that support for the under-age population of thirty-five years, but expectant with the foundations of the State Housing Plan to be boosted by 2021. You, who can influence the policies of the State, do not be afraid to demand everything, in which we are touched and in which we are held. Young is, etimologically, the one that helps society, the one that supports it with production support, but young is today who needs the help of society to grow and come about, to emancipate, to study, to work, to arrive, certainly, to be a help and a support. We express, therefore, our commitment as a group to work for young people, that today they are present and that tomorrow they will be future, and at the same time we commit ourselves also to those who will be young people of the future and who today grow up in our home. For them we also want a free country, for young people today and adults tomorrow and for small people today and young people tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, has the first sentence, the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.130.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I can't be referring to the two interventions that took place before my intervention. First of all, because the representative of Esquerra Republicana spoke of the fact that the neoliberal details are already being reversed, when today we still have a hundred and eight daily appointments only to call, without counting on the invisible. And, for another band, because I was also very surprised by Ciutadans' intervention, because they defended labor rights, criticized speculation and also defended access to housing through alternative forms of ownership. The Austrian word game and lowering taxes to the owner today criticized speculation and private property. Celebrate it, that's why, huh? For another band, and respect the young man, we will only stand by the points in which we will not vote in favour. We will vote against point 1 and make a critical yes at point 3. Why? So why does this generate a 99_per_cent bonus to the ITP and the AJD to whatever constitutes a lease, so the truth is that it doesn't seem right, why, what are we talking about? - From a backseat? - Mm-hmm. , of a person who has fifty habitats? Of a natural person...? The truth is, with this general point, we can't vote for it. And respect the help to the lodger... because we've said many times that you help to the lodger in the end is financing the owners indirectly. We will vote in favour, but we do not believe that it is a measure that I deepened in a model change. For another band, and respecting the return measures of those young people who have gone to live in other countries, we understand that there is no better public policy than that of betting for some title services, management and public provision to generate a quality occupation. Why, what better way to generate quality occupation than that generated by the same Administration? In this way they are asking you to private companies or I don't know who they generate a quality occupation when this is not the reality of the social context. Respect for T-culture. It seems to us that, as it stands, this is a transfer of public money to private archives, and therefore for us it would be much better to promote a very concrete model than what you intend to do with a living, free, public and universal programming. And lastly, we will abstain... – and I finish, President – we will refrain from respecting point 7, because we understand that this way the market is placed in the center and not the rights and needs of the community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of Congresswoman Esperanza García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.132.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, two minutes and a half; I will try to summarize what is the position towards this motion we have today for a vote. We think there are three very clear axes, don't we? , which are, in the first term, the difficulties to access housing on the part of young people; precarious work, and salvation, both the mind and the struggle and prevention against addictions to substances or even the whole game, which this young man has. We believe that, in the problem of housing, which not only affects young people but also families, the public stake should be to increase the public housing stock. But, despite this, we believe that the incentive and help to the lodge on the part of young people younger than thirty-five years is a good proposal, and therefore they will pick it up. Also, measures that they have to deal with with a job that is not precarious..., of which the great majority of young people are affected, and also the bet for the salvation that this proposal and this young man contains. Not so much practice. We believe that both the dual FP and the practices in the university curriculum have to do with the educational value agreements that sign the companies that work with educational entities, and therefore leave it in the hands of the sector, that we think it works well, because the objective is teaching, it is learning, it is accompanying, it is tutoring, but never the cheap workmanship, and we believe that this practical pay can also be the way to create a cheap workmanship. With respect to the return plan, we are totally in agreement. It has to be attempted, they have made it from other autonomous communities, as the proposer has said, and we agree with what you are doing. Not so much the second point. The second point seems to be a prize: if you come back, we help you come back. The first part's very good. But the second is, if you come back, you'll have a fixed contract. We believe that it is an award for those who have stayed, and that, at last, instead of being an incentive to return, it will be the opposite, it can be the other way around, right? : incentive to leave to get the prize on arrival. And, therefore, we will not support this. We believe that the proposal is good, we believe that it is rare to see proposals for youth from this plenary, and therefore we congratulate the proposer. And many times when it's about young people, it's about the future, and that's about talking about the future, it's like pulling the pilot forward and the problems will be solved more forward, because they're future, right? But young people are also present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, and to pronounce on the papers, Mr. Pol Gibert has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.134.0	Thank you, President. So to begin with the different groups that have made papers... both to the group of the commons, that we have been able to reach an agreement in practically all the points, for which we also thank the Member for the effort they have made, and also to the group of governments, that while it is not, let us say, possible to reach an agreement we have finally been able to work folded and the final intention was shared, with which the way did not follow the intention yes. I also said, Mrs Escofet, that you make some observations about what you said, right? First of all, my group has PCS lords and there are PCS lords as well. [[Greetings.]] I say this because sometimes we fall into this... when you say "sirs of the PSC" we're already going badly, because what comes next won't be better. But, I mean, let's make it clear, too, because when we talk, we also need to be included in language. The second issue I wanted to comment on to you is... You have referred to two models: one is the Ciutadans housing model, which I don't know what it is, if it's the Madrid land sales model, for example, and the other is the Ciutadans work model, which I don't know if it's the model of Coca-Cola's expressive lord, or I don't know what his work model was, I still have some doubts. And for what you're doing to your sentence, you know perfectly well – and you didn't say it here, but you know perfectly well – that we've offered a compromise because we think it's not over right now with 'It's over! With which, let's say, we were free to condemn any kind of intimidation... if for whatever reason you were, you didn't accept an issue... with which you weren't right to be a conviction right now, no. And I'm also telling you, this MP who speaks to you, Mrs. Escofet, has done activism to the Autonomous, has done activism and has also suffered astutely from groups, for which you know perfectly well what they are talking about. I mean, I don't want to give lessons from some people's morale. Also to Congresswoman Sales, and made reference to Mrs Garcia, we don't talk about young people as in the future, please do it as in the present, as in the act we have, because, if not, sometimes we fall into this typical phrase that we don't like, don't we? And lastly, to the Lord Sirvent also tell her that in the cultural model we surely disagree and it is a different model, but while there is no different cultural model we try that young people have access to culture, which is what we want. And, lastly, President, let him make it clear that we're pulling point 1 of the motion; point 1 of the motion, withdrawn. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.135.0	All right. So, as Mr. Gibert said, point 1 of this young man is removed. [[Widow's remorse.]] From the rest of the points, I don't know if there's any separate request for a vote... [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.136.0	Point 8, respecting the initial order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.137.0	All right. [[Esperanza García González asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Garcia. Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.138.0	We'd call the 5th and the 7th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.139.0	5 and 7 bis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.140.0	...that they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.141.0	...that they can vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.142.0	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.143.0	All right. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.144.0	We asked for a separate vote on point 1, the point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.145.0	Point one's gone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.146.0	Ah, it's true – it's true – that the deputy said so, yes. Point 3, point 5, point 6, point 8 and point 9. Point 5, point 6, point 8 and point 9 can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.147.0	I'll ask him to come back to me a little bit later, please, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.148.0	Yeah. Point three for a band.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.149.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.150.0	And, for another band, point 5, point 6, point 8 and point 9, which we can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.151.0	All right. Perfect. So let's move on to vote number three. The vote begins – point number 3. Point 3_has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 63 votes to 69 abstentions. And now we vote points 5, 6 and 9 together; 5, 6 and 9. The vote begins... [[Esperanza García González asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.152.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...separately, and what I had said was that we could do it together with the 7a, but on the 5th we can't vote together with the 8th, which the CUP asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.153.0	Excuse me, then. We'll vote on the 6th and 9th, 5th and 7th, right? [[Pause.]] 5 and 7 bis that can be voted together? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So we vote on the 6th and 9th, excuse me, 6th and 9th. The vote begins. Points 6 and 9 were approved by 126 votes in favour, against and 6 abstentions. And now 5 and 7 a.m.– 5 and 7 a.m. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Points 5 and 7a were approved by 125 votes in favour, against and 7 abstentions. And now, if we haven't left a point to vote separately, we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Administration of Justice]] [[302-00189/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the administration of justice. Presented for the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word the deputy lady María Francisca Valle. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.154.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. Look, news from last Monday, day 10, Television of Badalona; it says: "The renovation works of the court building will be stopped until at least 2021, already having another year more stagnant. Meanwhile, the property is flooded every time it rains, there are unfunctioning elevators and humidity. Insanity, from every point of view. Officials cannot even open the windows, precisely because of these works, which are standing but are being done. In winter they pass cold, in summer they pass heat, because they have no air conditioning either. Look, another test: report from the Fire Department. What does this report say about the Fire Departments of Martorell's courts? [[The speaker shows it.]] They have structural deficiencies. They say, Madam Counselor, that there is a potential risk for workers in Martorell's courts. I am saying this, and I am telling you directly, because you lied once again last week, when you said that there were no structural deficiencies. I'll show you, and I can give you the cut if you want. When I am in this atrium, I am not speaking in my name, but in the name of those who have trusted in a project, in some values that I represent, in a program of my party, and that is why I feel with a great responsibility that does not allow me to lie. That's why it's so ugly that you say we do it. Here I am the voice of many citizens who would like to be able to tell them what they think but who do not have that chance. With this motion I ask all of you not to commit yourselves to words, but to facts, to the votes on the points of the motion. And they have two options: one, to vote for peaceful coexistence, for respect for the rules and institutions that cost so much to get previous generations and for Catalans who long to live quietly, and for workers who struggle for decent working conditions; or to vote for equidistance, the disrespect of the rules and, therefore, also for our fellow men, in short, a policy of much talking and little doing. The administration of justice does not include only judges, prosecutors, lawyers. It concerns all of us. At some point in our lives we may need to go to a court, and since then we will understand that our economic and even personal future may depend on the time it takes to decide the issue. The harassment campaign that the Government of the Generalitat has deployed to the judiciary as a measure of pressure has meant that citizens are wary of seeing an institution essential to ensuring rights and freedoms. And that situation which the independence parties have encouraged with their actions on the street and with their attitudes in this Parliament must be reversed for the sake of Catalonia. And for this it is necessary: one, the recognition of the work that the members of the judiciary, the prosecutors and other servants of justice do; two, it is also necessary that in a public way they show their repentance. Yes, it is necessary, because there have been attitudes of disrespect and intolerable interference, such as trying to make judicial decisions ineffective or boasting of non-compliance, attitudes that are improper of public representatives that we must set an example. And these pressures of the independence parties lead to collateral damage. And who suffers such collateral damage? Well, the officials of the administration of justice. Collateral damage such as the repeated abandonment of functions by the councillor, both in the lack of equipment and in scorning their needs and rights. It's an indecency. It is indecency that these officials are the worst paid in all of Spain, because the specific complement, which depends on each autonomous community, has not changed since 2006, and is the only autonomous community that has not touched it since 2006. It is an indecency, and they must solve the already and match the average of Spain, with retroactive effects of January 2020. That's what we're asking in this motion. But also, that these officials have not already been paid the full extra pay for the year 2013; they have only been paid..., not even 50_per_cent; not even 50 percent_seven years later. You have set in your budget a 33_per_cent increase in the salary of senior positions and appoint two more senior positions. But it is also that these workers have to provide for work losses, because you do not fill them until several months later, and that means an overload of work for the officials. And it's not a receipt for you to deny it, counsel, or say that it's already been fixed, because it's not true. People – people – who work, who come to Martorell's courts cannot wait, because their health, their physical integrity is at stake. And don't tell me you'll have a new and magnificent building by 2024. They need a solution now. The same applies to the air conditioning of the courts. And finally I'm going to tell you that it's intolerable that we're the only community that doesn't have forensic assessment units in place. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We've presented an initiative, and as a result you're saying you're going to do it. I told you last week, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.155.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.156.0	... you – immediately, thank you – put people at the center of politics, but only some people: politicians who are imprisoned; so at the center of their policies that they enjoy privileges that other Catalans will not even be able to dream, privileges that give us an image of the kind of society...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.157.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.158.0	...that in a hypothetical independent republic you would build: an unequal and insolidary society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mrs Yolanda Lopez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.160.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. One more full, Citizens comes with the monotheme. The truth, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that you did not come here to talk about the social agenda and the problems of the people, but to continue to revive the flame and continue with your films. Honestly, it won't be us, it won't be in Comú Puem who slaps the scenes. That is why we will vote 'no to the first paragraph of the motion referring to the Parliament of Catalonia'. With regard to the second part of his motion, I sincerely hope that it will also be a question of his particular strategy of communicating deception, which is not out of ignorance, that he will come to this Chamber to present a number of questions which are not the competence of the Generalitat. On the Martorell courts, Madam Councillor, gentlemen of the Government, you well know that this is in the budgetary agreement that we have entered into in Comú Puerre with the Government, so please do not try to put medals on others. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you cannot come to make proposals such as those raised in paragraph 7 of your motion, on the encouragement of public servants, who already know that they speak of judges and magistrates, when they know perfectly well that it is the competence of the State. In addition, I insist: I imagine it is part of your deception strategy and a misreading of the data. It is not true that the people of Catalonia want to go to their land, that is not true, and when you say this you are deceived to the people. The judges who leave Catalonia are opponents who have come from other territories of the State and decide to return to their territory. Perhaps the approach is to work to make more Catalans and Catalans interested in the administration of justice, but not only judges and magistrates, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, but also in the entire administrative field of the administration of justice. With regard to the number 9 of your motion, make sure that you are as far as your obsession comes, that you will not even have looked at the 2020 budget agreement. Information on the budgetary agreement that we have made from our parliamentary group with the Government of the Generalitat : collects 60_per_cent of the return to all public officials of the Generalitat of Catalonia of the extraordinary pay of 2013, that is, 20_per_cent more than you propose. We have given you a little help with a few questions at point 8, so that you can save something from the motion. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, if you really are so concerned about the staff of the Administration and the return of your extra payments, what you should do is approve the budgets. On point 10 of this motion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that the budgetary agreement also includes provisions for the deficiency of the judicial parties. If you and the PP are so concerned, I insist: vote in favour of the budgets, make it possible for Catalonia to have budgets in just over a month. On points 11 and 12, we will vote in favour, but we would like to know what you are looking for with point 13. Fingerprints? Are they really saying that there are no people in the administration of justice who are interested in different activities? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.162.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, the motion that Ciutadans presented to us has two parts. The first, if I may, much of Ciutadans's style, drawing a situation altogether, let's say..., an apocalyptic panorama of justice in Catalonia. Miri, we can't agree with this first part of us being drawn. Rather, we are convinced that, if you are produced in the way you plant it, the Administration of Justice, the judiciary has great strength, it has great authority to put up with it and reverse it. And in particular, when in point 5 they speak of the misuse of the prison competitions that the government does and, moreover, they refer to prison privileges without gathering the requirements of procedure, there is a doubt, and it is if the compliment of the sentence – I assume that of the imprisoned politicians, you must refer – is not in the last instance supervised for the prison vigilance trial, for the courts, like that of all the other prisoners. So, if that wasn't so, you wouldn't have heard much or, if that's so, you don't have any sense that you're putting this one at us. On the second side, in change, we agree with most of the points. We agree, and we have not spoken on various occasions in the Committee on Information, with those measures which mean improving the situation of its judges and the people working there and, ultimately, of the justice service. And in this sense we share with you that you can build your new Martorell jutjats. The councilwoman told us that there was already a plot available, it could be built. But it is true that, while this does not happen, so we believe that it is opportune that these judgments can be carried forward, because more so, so there are security problems, and therefore we believe that, for the security of the people working there and the people who went there to use them as a public service, it is carried forward. Points 8 and 9 refer to the conditions of workers and workers in the field of justice, and in fact do not ask for extraordinary things: they ask that the specific supplement is reviewed and they ask that the extraordinary pay for 2013, which seems to be that there has been some government agreement that you already say this will be done. Also, remember that yesterday there was a negotiating table of the Justice workers, of the Justice officials, who came out more soon a little content, let's say, from this meeting. So everything that's going to improve the working conditions of public workers, so that sounds good to us. Point 10 has to do with what has happened to some of your judges in Catalonia with climate problems, and we think it's time to get out. Therefore, we will also vote in favour. They also talk about the implementation of units of integral forensic value, and before Congresswoman Valle commented that they had submitted a proposal and that from here, therefore, the council is moving. Well, we, our group, presented a motion for a resolution on September 28, 2018, which was approved, and which precisely posed on the table that had to be put into operation these units of integral value. The counselor at that time, in the compliment of this motion for a resolution, told us that there was already a protocol that worked, and now she says no, that now the units of integral forensic value will be put into operation. Well, it's better late than never, even though we seem to have lost this year and a half. The topic of the coverage of the downloades of the functionals. Obviously, the lack of coverage for a long time of these downloads is a damage to the public justice service; shippers have been stranded. Obviously, the department was saving some money by not covering the bass, but this also has an impact on the malfunction of the service. And lastly, refer to point 7, where we have presented them with a message. We are aware of the situation of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia in terms of being an attractive destination, especially for judges, prosecutors and officials of the Administration. Traditionally, it hasn't been, an attractive fate. And we think there's a solution to that; that's right. For us the solution, however, cannot come only from the performance or from a plan prepared exclusively for the department, but it must be a plan elaborated jointly between the Department of Justice, the Ministry and the General Council of the Judiciary, which at the head and at the same time are the actors that you see in the field of justice. And these solutions need to be more remunerative, because we understand that the standard of living in Catalonia is higher, and so this can be a factor that discourages these things from coming to Catalonia. We also need to come up with solutions that respect another topic that we believe can be seen as an obstacle to being an attractive destination, which is that of language. And, therefore, we propose that you do a specific training for those who want to come to Catalonia. And we believe that, besides, I would give out, I would give a solution to another issue that is important, that is the use of Catalan to the Administration of Justice, that every year we see, when it comes to presenting the memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, we see how the Catalan language went back to the time to implement, to use the Administration of Justice. Therefore, we believe that this would have been a good solution. You didn't accept it. We don't understand... if they don't want the Ministry and the General Council of the Judiciary to act or to form part of this plan, we think it would be very good to solve one of the important problems that justice has in Catalonia. But in any case, we have already told you, we would vote differently from the vote on points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, MP Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.164.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... Well, justice is not just a public service – this is well known to the Councillor, because she has heard it many times – where the client, let's say, is the citizen who comes and the Public Administration is the provider of the service. Justice is something else: justice is protection, justice is a guarantee of equality, justice is the limit to impunity, justice is the guarantee against the abuse of the powerful, justice is the basic pillar of democracy. It does not seem, many times, to share the members of this Government, that when justice gives them reason it is wonderful and when justice denies it in a judicial resolution justice is facsimile. But it is: it is a guarantee of democracy. We have read very carefully this proposal, this motion that brings us Citizens, and, although we do not share the language – you know we have a different style – we detect many of the problems that you report in this motion, and therefore the vast majority will support you, all of you. And we also tabled an amendment because we believed that, just as the deadlines for compliance were much segmented, there was a point exactly where it concerned the air conditioning of the judicial facilities where they left him a little bit more in the air. And as I have heard many times before the Councillor' we are on it, 'we are on it, but they come every summer and the judicial facilities have the same problem, because there we have hit them with a little push within two months. Having said that, we fully agree with the return of the extra payments. This Government, which also presents budgets where it says and, well, prides itself on returning them, when it must be remembered that it does so mainly forced by court rulings that force it to return it. Secondly, we fully agree on the diagnosis. As much as they repeat from the councilhouse that it is not true that there is an escape of judges and prosecutors from Catalonia, the reality, of course, operates entirely against these theories, not only because it says so in the report of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which Mr Barrientos came to present us– and as much as the councillor says« no, no, no, he gave us the exact data of judges and prosecutors who left Catalonia in the year 2018 and 2017–, but also because this is demonstrated and accounted for by the majority association of judges, which is called the APM association, of the judiciary. That said, we also support what we have said, worthy installations. The amendment we have tabled goes in that direction, to help. We also support, not only because we have that criterion, but because this Government is obliged, the implementation of comprehensive forensic assessment units, basically because we are the only autonomous community that does not yet have them. Many of you say: "Andalucia, you covenant, you rule... For in Andalucia there is. And there aren't any here. And you are also failing to comply with the State Pact against Macho Violence since last September, because there is precisely one party, one already transferred, of a finalist nature, for the creation of these units. And, therefore, we will force you to comply with that implementation of the comprehensive forensic assessment units. Look, justice has historical shortcomings, and we're not going to deny that, either to this government or to any other, because we know what's going on and what problems have been dragging justice for decades, it's true, but it gives the impression that from this government what you want – and look how difficult it is, huh? – it is even worse the situation of justice in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.166.0	Thank you, President. To intervene from the escó. We'll be a little bit shorter than the previous speaker, to explain the meaning of our vote. First of all, explain that we will vote against the first five points because they are a pure criminalization exercise of independence. Of course, the only thing we have to do is compare the data of how many judges, magistrates and magistrates and judicial secretaries were leaving in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and how many left later, because the data are very similar. What are you going to explain? That there are many magistrates and teachers who come here with their first destiny and then decide to return to their land, to their country. And it's a normal, normal process. And, therefore, so much good is wanting to be like thousands of Catalans and Catalans that we have come from other ends of the world or from other places in the Spanish State, from many places in the Spanish State, and we have stayed or stayed in Catalonia. But if there is anyone who wants to leave, obviously this does not want to link it to a reality that objectively shows that it is prior to the beginning of the national liberation process of this people started in 2012. Also... we'll never take on a relationship in which it's even talking about that it's denigrate from the government. I think one thing is going to criticize what's different, and it's a drill and it's necessary, one thing is the separation of powers, and another thing is not being able to criticize, it would just be missing, but it's not denigrating. And it seems even to us that the Citizens' Group, in its own motion, when speaking at the first point of administration of justice, surely what it wants to talk about is judicial power. Because one thing is the administration of justice and another thing is the judiciary. And I did not hear any element of criticism – because it would be, in fact, self-criticism – of the same government in relation to the Administration of Justice. I would say that we will vote in favour of the remaining points, from 8 to 13, which refer to measures that improve the administration of justice; some or all of them have given rise to doubts, because we think that they are already included in good part of the government's agreements to implement this year 2020, but in any case, even though they are included, we are in favour and therefore will vote positively. But we want to say that we will not vote in favour – and it is an exceptionality for this subgroup – in relation to point 7; point 7 that raises an emphasis on remuneration. We would say that we almost always vote in favour of improving the remuneration, but, miri, the one you are planting, and I read the letter, is to draw up an action plan to encourage public servants of justice to find Catalonia attractive to pursue their profession. Mirin, the legal operators, are already lawyers, lawyers, judges, magistrates, lawyers of the administration of justice, to exercise our profession, really that the attraction in this country is not to charge more or less. For itself, Catalonia is already attracted to any legal operator. And that's why we're voting against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.168.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, today we have a motion from Ciutadans that is ultimately a lençol that proposes thirteen agreements to us, that is ultimately nothing more than a compilation of the hits that usually dedicate to us in the afternoons of the Commission of Justice. And in this case, as my partner Rosa Maria Ibarra explained, we want to break down two aspects. One is paragraph 1 to 5, which is what it has to do with the typical Ciutadans rhetoric, which with this grandiose dialectic is what it wants to confront in this case the independent formations with the public servers of the field of justice. And the rest, they do have a practical application in which it would be the same Administration. Well, we do not want to pass the chance to say that we respect, as otherwise it cannot be, the courts, prosecutors and employees of the Administration who develop their task faithfully to the principles that they must inspire a democratic and right state; that we consider a fraud of law that an administration intends to disable the President of the Generality of Catalonia, and that it is even more fraudulent than the Supreme Court, which should be able to deal with firm judicial resolutions, because it is not produced by these abuses, the approved ones; that we believe that, in a state of law that can be approved by the Western democracies, we believe that it is even more fraudulent than the Supreme Court, that it should comply with the firm judicial resolutions, as a result of a procedure involving all guarantees; that we believe that, in a state of law that is acceptable to the Western democracies, that we judge all the institutions of the European Court of Justice, that we are dealing with all the cases of the European Court of Justice. I do not feel that it is a complaint for the permissions of Rodrigo Rato, nor that the prosecution opposes this permission; yes, always, with regard to the independenceist policies. As far as Martorell's jutjats are concerned, man, we'll vote no. But it's an impossible condition: Martorell's jutjat cannot be relocated in three months. And the counselor didn't tell a lie: there's no report that says she's been structurally insecure. If you know the building. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And it's a residential building. Do you think that no technique will allow people to live if their integrity is at risk? So, who's lying, if that's the case, it's you. The Government's commitment is to allocate EUR 8 million until 2023. We will not vote in favour of the doping fee that you propose for the judges and prosecutors of the rest of the State. The logic of which they propose to us would be to conclude that judges, prosecutors and civil servants have less to say about or are not coerced if they charge more. And I think it's offensive to the same judgments and you'll work. It's also uncertain that you're going to judge and work. The same president of the High Court of Justice tells us a year ago, when he presents his memo, all the while, in a certain way connivance with these statements, so I kept the Toga device with the costs that this entails of police resources that we could allocate to other more priority subjects. We'd do more to awaken vocations among the Catalan youth, huh? , because he seems relieved from the administration of justice, and maybe it would be the way we could listen to Catalan talk to our judges. We will not vote in favour of the issue that they have dealt with the PP, because it is impossible, it is an impossible condition in two months to fix the climate deficiencies of all the courts in Catalonia. But the government has committed itself, this year, to allocating €2,750,000 to different courts to fix it. We won't vote either to supply the basses to work. Someone pointed it out, it's a way to put you up to it and it went against the general rule of thirty days that it establishes for all the public service of the Government of the Generality. We will only vote in favour of two points: the 60_percent payment of the 2013 pay and the deployment of what you say units of full forensic value. Why? Because they are proposals that the Government has already developed: one, with an agreement this same Tuesday, and another, for an agreement of the Secretary General of the Department of 24 October 2019, not yesterday. We would end up abstaining on the specific complement of the civil servants, remembering that we have the highest rate of service after that of the Basque Country and Madrid, and that the complement may be lower, but that the basic salary is the highest of those that exist throughout the peninsula. And make them a reminder to you, the commons and the socialists, who today have responsibilities of government: if we go back to what is actually collected for legal fees in our territory, between 40 and 60 million euros, we could probably face with a lot of better guarantees these situations and these shortcomings, which everyone recognizes that they exist but that we must have the added assumptions to be able to do so. Why ever, huh? It's never a good government to propose better ones that don't come back for endorsements for a provision of funds to make them - in front of them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.169.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elena Fort has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.170.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, under the title of "Administration of Justice, therefore, is presented a motion with thirteen points, thirteen proposals, which, in five minutes..., as they have to understand are important enough not to give time to the answer that is deserved, accurately, each of them. But well, we'll try to do what's possible. The young lady has these two parts that have already been said: a more political and a more technical part. I'll start with the more technical part, and you'll allow me, Companion Orobig, that, since I'm coming back from you and I'll talk to you later, you make me all the words and arguments you've made so you don't repeat us, huh? In any case, thank Citizens who pose on the table questions that – as you have already answered – either there are girls or they are already making themselves, which shows that the government is doing the job well done, because where they are interested that we are already making it. Therefore, thank them, in any case, let us explain it. Anyway, let me hang on to the first five points, that maybe the rest of the companies haven't put up so much, and let me have a little personal plea, huh? I'll explain a story, a real story – I've seen it as a lawyer –, I'll talk to you about the Rose. The Rose is a widow of seventy years who lived in a house with garden, ground floor and a... that had inherited from her parents. This box was affected by the opening of the Diagonal and was expropriated. The Expropriation Jury, and later the TSJ, ratified a "justice for this estate, which was insufficient for it to be able to access the purchase of a reallocation habitat. This seventy-year-old lady, widowed and with a small thought, had to ask for a mortgage so that she could be reallocated, when she already had a habitation and they expropriated it. You know what? The sentence applied the law, interpreted the law? And as long as I did. But was the sentence fair? No, no, No one can tell me it's fair. Gentlemen, the right is a means, and the end is justice. And, unfortunately, sometimes they don't coincide. Unfortunately, in the last two years, there has been a lot of justice in this country, but very little justice. That is why we have neither asked permission nor asked forgiveness to denounce the times when all the unjust judicial acts that consecrate the Spanish State's repressive exercise to all citizens, whether political or non-political, who peacefully act in order to achieve the independence of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] I should like to remind you that President Puigdemont, Councillor Comín and Councillor Ponsatí are no longer MEPs. As my company Campdepadrós said, maybe justice really starts in the Pyrenees. The only real respect for justice is to exercise it, beyond, if necessary, the strict application of the law. Because the law, like the social self-organisation tool that the citizens of Europe have, can change, cancel, discuss, question, and even fight. Because the law has to be in the service of the citizens, and not the citizens in the service of the law. Citizens' deputies and deputies – because they are Citizens who have presented the motion – as the little story that I have explained to you about the Rose, which is real, a state with right is not always a state of right, and a state with right is not always a fair state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the exams has the new word the deputy Mrs Maria Francisca Valle. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.172.0	Well, let's start with the CUP gentlemen. Yes, it must be very attractive Catalonia, especially for judges and prosecutors and all those..., even officials who are inside the courts receiving the excrement that Arran throws at them at the door. [[Greetings.]] Because I remind you that not only do the judges leave, but also the officials. Please note, you make virtually no proposal in the Committee on Justice. But they also boast of being in the Congress of Deputies, of charging and not going to work. [[Greetings.]] I'm still with Catalonia in Comú Pueder. We're not surprised at all. It gives me the feeling that you have not read the memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. Do we approve budgets as you do? Budgets, in what sense? In that of raising 60_million_of_euro institutional advertising and not looking at the rights of the workers who are these judicial officials? Of course, we're not going to do it that way. We continue with the Socialist Party. You tell us that we have made an apocalyptic drawing – an apocalyptic drawing – that we are the only ones who see this. Well, listen, I'm going to tell you one thing: we're proud to be the only ones who stand up for judges, magistrates, prosecutors and officials. [[applause]] And all of them. Why? Because they are the ones who defend us, all of us, even those who deny them. And I'm going to go on now, finally, with Republican Left and Junts per Cat. That you respect the judges..., you have begun – I do not see it now, Mr Orobig – saying that you respect the judges. Well, say it to Mr. Rufián, who recently said that he alerts..., alerts Mr. Sánchez, alerts him of the fascism of tie and toga, worse even than Vox's hound. Lucky you respect the judges! Because, if not, I don't know how they would do it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It seems a lie that you have not seen Martorell's residential building. There's very little residential in it, as if it were because some neighbors live there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.173.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.174.0	...and nothing else. [[Widow's remorse.]] Shame on others, shame on others gives me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.175.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.176.0	...someone's shame gives me you say that now you're going to commit to air conditioning...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.177.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.178.0	...of the buildings, when they have been waiting for the Sabadell courts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.179.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.180.0	...since Councilman Mundó... who's already committed. You're lucky – and I'll end up here, President, if I may –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.181.0	Yeah, I'm done here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.182.0	Yes, I finish, saying: you have a lot, but a lot of luck living really in a rule of law. [[Greetings. Jordi Orobig and Sole ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.183.0	Say'm, Mr. Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.184.0	Well, Mr. President, I was asking for the word for obvious allusions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.185.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.186.0	Can I expect everyone to sit down? Because it's... [[Long pause and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.187.0	Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.188.0	Yeah, no, just tell Mrs. Valley that a residential building means exactly that, that there are people who saw it, huh? , which is a residence and, therefore, I do not see any hint of incongruity. And just tell him that we respect Spanish judgments, and we always do. I don't think you can say that, in all the trial proceedings, you have seen any disregard on the part of the ex-companies of this chamber respect... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Pardon me – forgive me –, in the trial sessions of the trial I have not seen any disregard addressed to the members of the court. You, incomplicating the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union, are making an obvious decrease...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.189.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.190.0	...to the right [[applause]] Of all these citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.191.0	Thank you. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.192.0	Yes, for a separate vote, they can go together: 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 - 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.193.0	All of these together, huh? [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.194.0	Yes, President, for a separate vote from point 1 to point 5, which can be taken together; point 6 and point 7, and from point 8 to point 13, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.195.0	All right. If I conciliate all separate voting interests set a first package with points 1... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Don't you? Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.196.0	I'm afraid it's gonna have to be point by point, because we need 8, 9, 11 and 12, for one band; 6 and 10 for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.197.0	So, we vote separately all points, yes. Let's get to the vote, then. Let's get started on the number one point. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 54 votes in favour, 78 against and no abstentions. And we're voting five now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. And now the 6th. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 65 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 67 votes to one, with 64 abstentions. And now we're voting point number nine. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 59 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 11th. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And now we vote on number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved by 67 votes to 65. And we're finally voting point 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the protection of minors at school]] [[302-00190/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the protection of minors at school, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Sonia Sierra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.198.0	Yeah, yeah, not pateixi. See, try it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.199.0	Good afternoon, one more time, and welcome the guests who accompany us this late. School accommodation causes terrible harm to the people who suffer it, and it is also very negative for the people who care, because, if they do not intervene in the right way, they can end up being reinforced by their antisocial behaviors and reproduce them at the length of their lives. In this sense, the best thing that can happen is that the settlement never stops to happen, because the measures of prevention have been taken. The first step towards ending settlement is transparency. And that's why we ask for the elaboration and publication of an annual database with information such as the number of victims, the number of open protocols and the result when it's closed, etc., because only with all the data on the table can we take the most appropriate measures for each case. As I was saying, prevention is fundamental. And that is why we propose the incorporation of emotional education from the childhood stage, as is already being done in Andalusia since we govern. And if we really want to end the setup, the professorship is a key piece. Currently, teachers do not have the necessary tools to detect school placements, and even fewer cyber placements. And that is why it is necessary to ensure that the teacher will have training in prevention, detection and performance of school accommodation. But you can't just leave the teacher, who's already done enough work. The centres must be able to count on technical and professional means to be able to detect and act in case of settlement, and it must be ensured that all Catalan educational centres include the issue of settlement in their centre education project and in their tutorial action plans. As I was saying, we can't leave the sun teacher in the fight against settlement. And that's why it's necessary to make students aware that settlement is intolerable and that they have to be an active part in ending this slaughter. In this sense, programs such as Tei are very important, which are peer-to-peer tutorials and which are used to involve everyone in the struggle against settlement. And from here I want to thank all the work they do from the Nace partnership against school settlement and from which this young man is clearly a deutero. Second different studies – because, as I say, we do not have bad official figures – one_of_each_four students from the primary schools in Catalonia suffers from school attendance. These figures seem completely unacceptable to me, but when we talk about the LGTBI collection, the figures are even more egregious, because half of these people, of this collection, ensure that they have been victims of physical or psychological attacks. And that's why we ask that we take specific measures to combat the student placement of the LGTBI collection and show us firmness with zero tolerance against the LGTBIphobia. And another collection that hardly suffers from school attendance is that of students with autism. In this case the figures are still worse, they can reach up to 60_per_cent, and that's why we also ask for a specific plan for setting up people with a driver's spectrum disorder. As you can see, a large part of the young person turns around to finish school. All students must be protected at the centers: those who suffer from the siege, and also the aggressors, who must hear that their behavior is not acceptable. But because the protection for students is complete, we also need to get old so that there are no political associations to fall to the schools. That's why we ask that we condemn the performance of the Language Platform, which recognized on the press wheel that teachers and directors had deceived so that they could be at the hour of the pati to see which languages the students spoke. Obviously, the most important here are the students, they have to be protected, but at the same time it may not be possible to deceive teachers and directors for pure interests of an association with a clearly political purpose. We ask for respect for the teacher and we ask for respect for the students, and that is why we ask that we condemn the performance of the Language Platform. Besides, our centers can't be the labs of parapolitical associations, and much less, our students, their Indian councils. And in this sense we also ask that you are old so that students do not have to make public their political sympathies or their families. And finally, we ask you to show support for the girl who was assaulted at a Terrassa school, and from here I want to send all my ladder and from all the City Group to both the girl and her family, because we know that it's been very bad. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.200.0	To defend the papers presented has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.201.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, thank Ciutadans for the motion, this motion on the protection of minors to the schools. Probably from the PSC we gave him a little different focus, didn't we? , especially focused on giving resources that are needed to adequately attend to the student and to ensure this protection, as for example that no child with special educational needs is without a specific support to the classroom when necessary, or giving more training to the teacher and more professional to make adequate attention and early detection with student with specific difficulties or disorders, can start before a treatment. But we share the strength of this young man and celebrate that I draw the thread of an appearance that precisely asked our group to associate Nace – No to School Harassment –, that I also take advantage of to greet, that works in full with young people, with children victims of settlement, and above all that they also contribute to giving visibility to a chess, that according to a report that is already a few years old, from Save the Children, it said that it affected almost 10_percent of students in Catalonia of different levels of education, that they ensure that they have suffered assimilation or cyber-assetment, I was insulted... In addition, a cup that each course grows, despite sensitisation. So, we've known, dealing with, different cases of violence in the classrooms, of equal accommodation, or even of teachers, and from Parliament we've urged to develop and approve different protocols, to give them to know the centers, the families, the teachers..., precisely to raise awareness and also to help prevent certain conducts from the more appropriate environments and, therefore, to encourage prevention, to be able to also make a good detection, and to ensure correct intervention improving coordination between departments, and always encouraging attitudes, civic values of respect for others; that it is not rebutgin, but it gives value to the difference. And in this proposal we ask to provide official data on asset management, because it is certain that the data we have, therefore, are usually offers by entities, by associations, and we have very few people in the department's information. And, on the other hand, they ask the government to also contribute to making visible the existence of this phenomenon, precisely to help combat it. And we add that, if it suits, we could..., be able to touch it up and still campaign in the media to raise awareness of the youths of the suffering it entails, and that sometimes it ends up with suicides. Bullying or setting up is not a child's game. It should therefore focus on this incisive prevention of educational projects of the centres, on the projects of coexistence, and be able to avoid cases of settlement in specific collections, such as with TEA, as the same Member commented. Also incorporate this emotional education from the childhood stage, throughout the compulsory period, to fight also male violence or LGBTIphobia, and strengthen this formation of the faculty in order to prevent it and intervene in it in time. And that said, therefore, we want to give support from our group to all the children, young people and children who have suffered, who suffer, who often suffer in silence, episodes of different violence, diaries, who make them suffer, who make them go to school with their stomachs engorged, who go through and who often have negative consequences in many areas of life, on salvation, on academic performance or in social relations. They're not alone. And with reference to various, much more politicized episodes, which have been publicly commented on, we also want to gather the student who felt he had been assigned or attacked in educational centres for various reasons – political, of origin, of race, of sexual orientation, of gender – as well as other members of the educational community, as many dozen who have been assigned unjustly and recklessly and irresponsibly. If education is a fundamental tool for building a fully democratic and socially cohesive society, we must guarantee the right to education with respect to everyone, with independence from their ideas and without discrimination. And that's why we have always wanted to preserve the school of political conflict, preserving any kind of political instrumentation of education, and we have urged the political forces to work together to ensure precisely this coexistence at the centres. And, therefore, we would like to thank Congresswoman Sonia Sierra for accepting the message that we are asking the Government to develop and approve an action protocol to authorize studies or investigations that are produced in educational centres – this already exists in other autonomous communities; so... –, because precisely this protocol ages to preserve this coexistence, to ensure information to the clauses, to the addresses, to satisfy families, in order to guarantee the right to the protection of minors or the Data Protection Act. We cannot continue to keep this important area unregulated: episodes such as the Platform for Language investigating the use of catalá to the path of schools without authorization, centers passing on questions related to independence to students who are smaller... Therefore, we ask the government – which is not here, but we would like them to arrive at it – to put down the needle and to draw up a clear protocol that sets order and that above all guarantees the rights of the lowest ones also to the schools. For all intents and purposes, therefore, we shall vote in favour of the joint motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the Republican Parliamentary Group, now the deputy Mònica Palacín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.203.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Welcome, the members of the Nace association, a greeting. And we also convey the apologies that Councilman Bargalló has brought to us so that it cannot be today, this late, here to the plenary. Well, she's a young man with two strokes; I don't know if the same coin, but in any case, two strokes. For one band, the first eight points refer to the settlement between the equals, which has allowed us, between the proponents and this parliamentary group, to draw up agreements and disagreements from a reasonable position. You ask the system better – obviously –; we defend the work of the department, always better, sure, that sure. But the second part of this young man is the weekly falcon, it's..., no opportunity lost, he's in commission, in plenary, in interpellations, motions, proposals, some failures: adoption, persecution, espionage. For what he does to the first block of the movement, we appreciate the acceptance of a theme and the transaction of a point. And that's why and because of the job we're precisely defending that department, this job that's implicit in many of its points and petitions, we're going to vote for the first six points. Because it is a reference to the need for advisory and guidance teams, the PAAs, to coordinate with the departments of the mental health centres in each area, which derive and follow up... Because it is also a reference to the co-existence project of the Department of Education..., where it is already offered to the educational centres orientations and resources to develop the socio-emotional skills as an integral element of the training of students. We also need to talk about, and referencing, the educational innovation programme« Here too bullying, which faces the settlement and cyber-assetting of equals and offers training to develop the prevention, detection and intervention project, with the participation of the entire educational community. And one of the projects that has been launched from the department, important, the program ‘Coeduca't, this program to ensure emotional and non-sexist education in all compulsory education in a transversal way. They also talk about training, obviously: area training plans, which have been made and to be followed, planned for the department and, obviously, with their help and collaboration in approving the assumptions in order to be able to get all the initials that lay in this young man. In point 7, however, we will abstain, because the Protocol for the provision of school accommodation to LGBTI people already exists, and I return to say, it already exists, as many of the points to which you refer, and, if we are to improve them, we will do so. With respect to the other settlement protocols, say that Save the Children recognizes the Protocol for the settlement and cyber-assembly between the equals of the Generality and the program "Here enough bullying as two of the good practices implemented in Catalonia. For what it does at point 8, we understand that there is no need for a specific protocol for students with autistic spectrum disorder, since it contradicts, among other things, the one that determines the Covenant against Segregation, and we understand that it stigmatizes these students. And, for what he does to the second bloc, we will vote that not for the rest of the points, including the slogan of the Socialist Party. Miri, so much for the times that has been explained in this plenary and in commissions, referring to the practices of Platform for Language. The countries of the schools have come in and there are associations and various entities: cultural, sports, healthcare... There has never been a problem. You're the only one who sees him. Regarding the addition point of the Socialist Party, say that we believe that the freedom of the chair, of universities and of research centers is very little respected, because we believe that the students are part of society, and with these interventionist attitudes we do not favor them if what we want are children and young free and critical. And finally, if they want to get old for the students, they don't do tweets pointing out some students who took part in the student program freely. We must agree that a democratic education system must educate from respect for freedom and human rights, so it should also respect the rights of students that they want to mean politically. And to get a society with free, tolerant, and critical minds, I want an educational system that gives them the tools, and some governments that respect the work of their professionals, not to pose a question. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , as a fan, for example – I finish, president – with parental pine, putting it as a veto to certain educational contents, with identity of gender, feminism or sexual diversity, so important to fight against school settlement. I, by the way – and ending...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.204.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.205.0	...I feel more like a school where I teach my children to debate politics than teaching infants to tore, like the one promoted by the Junta d'Andalusia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, MP Imma Gallardo has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.207.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, Members and Members, staff who have accompanied us today, today we are debating this motion for the protection of minors at school and, certainly – the companies who have preceded me have said this – we share the background of some of the points of this motion, but those who really deal with this difficult problem, and these will vote for them. Indeed, the protection of children at school is a very important issue: both the setting up and the cyber-assetting are badly a real challenge in which it involves both children and young people as well as teachers and centre staff, but also families. In short, of the whole educational community, and not only for the LGTBI collection or affected by the TEA, which also, but for all children and young people who for reasons of their skin color, their ethnicity, their language, their physical or psychic characteristics or their sexual tendencies may be likely to be affected. Therefore, completely agree that the first step must be to make the school establishment visible in order to end it. The #aquiproubullying prevention, detection and intervention program in front of this asset and cyberassembly already provides the centers registered in the program with this necessary training. For what it does at point 2, we share that it is a major issue because the educational projects of the center and the projects of coexistence involve this work in prevention and intervention in the face of the school settlement, as marked by Resolution ENS/585/2017 of March 17. But it also seems to us to be very important to incorporate emotional, emotional and sexual education from the childhood stage and throughout compulsory education, so as to help avoid situations of male violence and settlement. In fact, this was one of the first requests that, from Juntes per Catalunya, this Member in this same rostrum, too, made. Personally, I would still go a little further, and I would already incorporate, with the adaptations that I call, the zero-three years, because humans are emotional and emotional from birth, and as the nine generations begin to be much better aware of us. In the same way, it seems to us very important to strengthen training programmes for teachers and for all the staff of the centres: monitoring staff of the caterers, extra-schoolers, staff of the concierge. With regard to point 6, we agree that it is important to encourage educational centres to develop school-based prevention programs, such as socio-emotional education, sexual and emotional education, positive conflict resolution and peer-to-peer counseling – Tei – to name a few. The promoters of this program, the Association No to School Harassment – Born – recently appeared to the Education Commission. I think more than eleven years ago, they said, they worked in school centres both at the level of Catalonia and in other communities in the Spanish State, with very good results. For what the deputy Palacín has said at point 7 – the department already has a specific protocol for the LGTBI collection. Perhaps better, but in any case it already exists. At point 8 what we proposed is to ensure the application of the protocol to avoid installation and cyber-assembly conduits to students with ASD. In this case, and in the framework of the inclusive school decree, we understand that no specific protocol is necessary. For what it does at point 10, the education system already ages and needs to age to avoid and act before any type of aggression or assault. In the case mentioned above, the department has already contacted the family since the first moment; the case is under judicial instruction and it does not seem to us to be appropriate to talk about a particular case in this chamber. Our theme was to show support to all members of the educational community who have been publicly assigned and assigned and to all children who have suffered from any type of placement in school. Finally, at point 11, we proposed the text to continue working from political neutrality in the field of education, and to condemn any public assent to the members of the educational community, because the education system in Catalonia already exercises the functions that are its own with strict political neutrality and, as the LEC says, expels any kind of proselytism or indoctrination. And to finish – said the same councillor Bargalló in his inquiry and say many very different collections –: leave the Catalan school that you work, let the professionals do their job, and, to children and young people, learn and train to become in a future better citizens and citizens of Catalonia. And I end up making my own a phrase from the Nace association, which says: "A healthy society cannot allow its infants to go to school. And here we are all inquiring about our part. To thank the good work of the deputy Palacín and the predisposition of the deputy Sierra to accept the task and to negotiate another one. Therefore, our group will abstain at point 7, vote against points 8, 9, 9 bis, 10 and 11 and vote in favour of the remaining points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.209.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, it's said, this is a young woman who has two distinct parts, and I'd like to focus on the first one, which is the one that goes from the struggle over school settlement. In fact, the motion backs a good part of the proposals that were transferred to us, to the Education Commission, the association Nace – No to the School Accommodation – to whom I also take advantage to greet. Miri, Mrs. Sierra – honestly, eh? – we believe that you present this young man from the good... in fact, we know that he presents this young man from the good faith. This is a reality that eats us all and, from our group, so we want to thank him for bringing this theme to the plenary and bringing this young man. In the first place, because this allows us to see the theme, and this was one of the first requests made to us by the partner Nace, it is a topic that we need to talk about, it has to be made visible. And, secondly, because it allows us, from this chamber, to be able to approve a whole series of measures to start focusing on this problem. Well, you tell us at the first point that the Administration has to offer data and we agree. In fact, Euskadi is the only community that periodically published data on school attendance. We know that one of every five children in the first place is suffering as a result, that the secondary is one of every four, and that the trend, more than that, is growing. Therefore, the problem exists and it is difficult. We understand, on the other hand, that the settlement must be fought from a global perspective, as it is proposed, for example, through the Tei Programme – which presented us in this appearance – a program based on prevention, where the great protagonists are the same students. Sensitization, I said, must be global and therefore we will not vote in favour of point 8, because we understand that if the problem is sectorized into certain collections, as you put it with students with ASD, so this has a perverse effect, which is the stigmatization of these collections, and we want to avoid it. We shall vote in favour, for that reason, of the remaining points, from 1 to 7. We also believe that we need to address the issue, not only from the settlement, but above all from the coexistence. The LEC, in fact, has a simple chapter for coexistence – Chapter 5 – on its article 30, which states : « All members of the school community have the right to live together in a good school climate and the duty to facilitate it. And you tell us, too, that learning about living together is a fundamental element of the educational process, and so you have to express the educational project of each center. The learning of coexistence, learning to live together, school it as a space to learn to live together. And that brings me to a certain contradiction with the second part of your young lady. Because, look, I think living together goes through the recognition of diversity, to learn to listen, to hear that we're different and that we don't all think alike, and that we need to respect other people's ideas. And that happens, in my opinion, to encourage debate, not to avoid it. It goes on to encourage critical thinking, not to prohibit each one of them from expressing their ideas. So are the infants; or do we think the infants don't think? We believe that the school should be used to encourage debate, as well as political debate. Look, I don't want to get into this issue because I understand that it wasn't the subject of this motion, but it's that unfortunately you don't know how to be and even when you're dealing with issues as sensitive, as uplifting, as school placement, you end up adding a whole series of points that always take you to the same place, that take you to the monotheme, that's your theme. And the truth is, it's a big deal, Mrs. Sierra. And let's think about that or say that in a motion about attachment, because we understand that you don't get married... that you don't get married. First of all, because, as we are also told, school accommodation is produced between pupils, not between teachers and pupils, so concepts are barging. But second of all, Catalonia has no more cases of school settlement than other territories. There is no relationship between the political process and school placement. And if there was, we believe that the way to deal with it would be to encourage debate, not to ban the word as you put it on some points of this young man. All of this, but above all, because we don't think he was touching on this young man talking about these issues, but we should have focused on the problem, which is school accommodation... so, for all that, I told you, we would vote against points 9 to 11 of his motion and in favour, as I said, points 1 to 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. Let us now turn to the intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.211.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, we in this young man from Ciutadans, in fact, do not observe two, as some Members or Members who have already quoted me in the paragraph have already mentioned. In fact, we observe a first motion concerning the problem of school accommodation, which we mostly share, and therefore we will vote that yes – with some observation that I will do it later – and then a second motion that corresponds to the traditional attitude that Ciutadans promotes against the Catalan public school and, obviously, respects this second young man we cannot vote in favour. Well, you'll comment on the observations. If we vote in favour of the points from the first part of the motion, which specifically refers to the question of school accommodation, we shall vote in favour of points 1 to 7. Indeed, we will abstain in the case of the request of a specific plan to eradicate the placement of pupils with ASD, because we consider that, indeed, if it is a collection that requires special attention at its diversity and specific needs, effectively, a plan of this nature is not the best solution, precisely for reasons that have already been said, so as not to generate discriminatory effects added. Yes, we will vote in favour of point 7, the specific plan to eradicate settlement in the LGTBI case, because even though there is a plan, the precariousness with which this plan is currently applying we think it requires or deserves a special effort. And for what he does to the second part of his youth, that of the settlement against the Catalan public school... We..., insist, as we have always said, that, for us, the Catalan public school is the best space, the most propitious space to continue promoting plurality, freedom of expression, democratic debate, political participation, and culture and critical feeling. And we also have to say that we are surprised that Ciutadans in his own country, for example, does not highlight the obvious phenomenon of indoctrination that is produced in many concerted centers, or in many private centers of confessional or elitist nature, in which there really is an ideological biach binding on all students, an ideological biach in the formation, which has an obvious doctrinal nature. And we're surprised that you're acting like Ciutadans, in this case, don't point out the problem. Something's got to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.213.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. We will support the motion, because we believe it contributes to focusing on a serious problem, such as harassment in or outside the school, on its various aspects, and we believe that it seeks solutions and advances especially in the field of prevention and detection of a tear that affects too many minors in Catalonia, and therefore we believe that it is important to find solutions that help, that help to find early solutions to the previous appearance of such problems that delay the normal development of these minors. Therefore, we will support the motion, except point 4, where we believe it would not proceed, in our view... We already know that it is very fashionable to be modern; we are classical conservatives and do not believe that incorporating sex education into the childhood stage is really an educational priority in this age group. We will therefore abstain on this point and support the rest of the motion, which we believe to be very correct and timely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.214.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Sonia Sierra's deputy has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.215.0	Thank you very much. In the first place, I want to thank the papers presented, which sense doubts improve the text. In the case of the PSC emena, it affects the greater protection of the faculty, and also because families can feel more comfortable. And, in the case of Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia, it expands emotional education to affective education and we believe that it strengthens our point to combat attachment to the LGTBI collection. Miri, Mrs. Palacín, I give you all the reason: neither an opportunity lost by Ciutadans, nor a lost opportunity to protect students, nor a lost opportunity for families to feel escorted, nor a lost opportunity to ensure that teachers and, above all, not a lost opportunity to improve our educational system. That's why we're the most educated, and it's known to the Education Commission and also here in the plenary. [[Greetings.]] And I remember it was Platform who said that he had fooled the teachers; don't say it Citizens, said Platform. Obviously, there is the LGTBI protocol, but it doesn't work, because the figures are gross, and the same goes with the TEA collection. I also understand that some parties say to us: « We will vote in favour of a specific plan for the LGTBI collection, but not for the students with TEA, because it discriminates against them. Home, it discriminates against everyone or it doesn't discriminate against anyone, but the truth is that it hasn't really felt its position. By the way, as far as parental pine is concerned, we're against it, but it's more of a record. [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] that the only party that has submitted proposals for resolution to the Education Commission to include the gender point of view and the LGTBI collection in the school curriculum has been Ciutadans. In front of empty mantras of contents, the facts; and the facts fall from the Ciutadans band. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] But, besides, in this very proposal there is a specific point in the LGTBI collection. Stop inventing things, please. I can't lower the volume, because they're talking as long as it's impossible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.216.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.217.0	... I don't even feel myself. Then... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.218.0	Congresswoman, time's actually up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.219.0	Yeah, but they're interrupting me. Let me finish, please... We haven't talked, don't talk, this young man, no matter what you're in court. Just ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.220.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.221.0	...express escalph and empathy in front of a girl who has been assaulted by... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Voice remorse and applause.]] [[Daniel Serrano Coronado asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.222.0	Tell me, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.223.0	Yes, President. To request a separate vote on item 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.224.0	All right. More petitions? [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.225.0	Yes, for us we could vote together from '1 to 7, separate vote from point 8, and then together from 9 to '11. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.226.0	Quiet! Wait a minute, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.227.0	For contradictions, to ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.228.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.229.0	...the honourable Member, Sierra, who may well have read the proposals of other parties as well, and who have not only put forward proposals for a resolution to the committee, but also motions to the House and which have been approved here at the very least by our parliamentary group. Maybe I could expand a little bit of what we read, and it's not just what we do as a group. And then to ask for the separate vote – I think it has already been said – from 1 to 7; to 8 abstention, and the rest you can vote in conjunction. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.230.0	It's good to have a vote, Congresswoman. We only asked him for separate votes. [[Rialles. Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.231.0	From what you have mentioned, we would ask for a separate vote from point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.232.0	All right. As I have asked and believe that we can group, a separate vote has been proposed from point 4, from 1 to 6, 8 separately, from 9 to 11 and 7, yes? [[Pause.]] Okay. So let's move on to the vote on Point 4. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 128 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Now we're voting the points that go from '1 to 6 – except for the 4, obviously. From 1 to 6, except for 4. The vote begins. These points have been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 55 votes to 63, with 13 abstentions. We're voting now for points ranging from 9 to '11, 9, 10 and 11. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 54 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And if we haven't figured it out, isn't there a point in voting for this young man? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action]] [[302-00191/12]] So we continue with the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on foreign action, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Daniel Serrano. [[Pause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the climate emergency (withdrawn)]] [[302-00193/12]] Before he intervened, he announced to the House that he had requested the withdrawal of the last Member of Parliament. So this will be the last one. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action (cont'd)]] [[302-00191/12]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.233.0	Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Counselor, deputies and deputies, this motion derives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.234.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.235.0	As I said, this motion derives from the questioning of Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Bosch, last week, an inquiry which was aimed at demonstrating the futility of the Government's external action, as proposed by the Counsellor. I don't know if I achieved my goal... I tried, Mr. Bosch, didn't I? , trying to prove the futility. It is useless because, despite the fact that propaganda goes to any machine abroad, there is no tangible objective that can be sold by the Government. And between tangible objectives, then, we could look for some such as the recognition of some government to the separatist objectives of the councillor and the government. And in that sense, then, there is no government abroad that has recognized you. Unfortunately, we do have one inside, which is the government of Mr Pedro Sánchez. This government has, unfortunately, recognized you as interlocutors, has it not? But beyond the Government of Spain, there is nothing out there. Hence the futility that we understand to emerge from its external action. That doesn't mean that that outside action... even though we understand it to be useless, it's neither harmless nor economical. And it is not harmless because, as I said at first, propaganda goes all the way, and in that sense the propaganda of political statements abroad, for us, is toxic. It is toxic because it not only harms the image of Spain, but also damages, and especially, the image of Catalonia on the outside. Because you create a fictional, fanciful, false story, which, we believe – we affirm – clearly damages the image of Catalonia. In fact, I was telling Mr Bosch last week that his department, rather than external action, should be called 'external defamation', because it is essentially what his department and his political delegations are dedicated to abroad: to defaming the image of Spain outside our borders. And, as I also said, external action is not economic either. I know that Mr Bosch regrets that his budget is modest, EUR 76 million; it is true that it is not much either, but he also said that in his hands it was much, too much, much more than we can bear. That is why we believe, we believe, that it is better to dispense with those delegations abroad, because we believe that they are damaging, and very much damaging, the image of Catalonia outside. That is why we, in our motion, call for these political delegations to be dispensed with. And not because we do not understand that an external action is necessary to promote culture, language, economy, that for that there are already instruments that the Generalitat has abroad to promote culture or language, such as Ramon Llull, or the Catalan economy with the Accion offices. But we believe that you create a parallel, political network, dedicated to another story, and essentially dedicated to whitewashing the process, to selling the right of self-determination of Catalonia and to selling the supposed repression of the Kingdom of Spain. And you're trying to sell it out, but nobody really buys you this damaged goods, because neither does the right of self-determination proceed nor is anyone believed that there can be repression in Spain. That is why it is a costly, useless network, and why we propose that it be much more effective to dispense with those delegations, I insist, with politics abroad, that you dedicate yourselves to what you dedicate yourself to. Because they do not even introduce synergies of collaboration with the tools provided by the diplomacy of the Kingdom of Spain abroad, as some autonomous communities use. You create a parallel network, clientelar, to do what you do. And therefore, Mr Bosch, we do not share it and believe that it is better to dispense with delegations and also with delegates abroad, and we hope that also by complying with and complying with the judgment of the Catalan High Court of Justice, in which I ordered you to proceed to the closure of six delegations. Also, as a Transparency Advisor, we asked that existing delegates appear. And it's either you, or you don't allow them to appear or the delegates abroad are leaning on the parliamentary majority not to do so. But it is surprising that, being a council of Foreign Action and Transparency, it is not predicted by example; it seems to us very surprising and very undemocratic. We therefore call for an annual report on the balance sheet and activity of delegates abroad and a reform of the Act on External Action and Relations with the European Union, so that delegates who may be present at a particular time have an obligation to appear before Parliament for parliamentary control. It is a real anomaly that delegates abroad do not have an obligation to appear. Hence, we preach and ask for the reform of this law, so that they have an obligation to appear. Because to believe in this transparency one must preach with the example, Mr Bosch, and for the moment, with this, nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.236.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Susana Beltrán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.237.0	Thank you. How do you want us not to suspect that the Government has donated 150,000 euros to the United Nations for nothing? In exchange for nothing? Before the government, objectively speaking, paid to convince about independence; they remember the American lobbies Independent, Diplomat, SGR..., which were specifically hired because they were specialized in secession processes. And now you have changed the process or convinced about the process of secession, in view of the fact that you have not succeeded, to convince the international public that those who committed the coup d'état... – « coup d'état in the sense of Kelsen, that is, that when from the political power it subverts, it loads, the constitutional order, and separatist parties..., that is exactly what you did in September and October 2017 – you have changed your conviction about the process of secession by convincing that those who committed the coup d'état did absolutely nothing. But the modus operandi is exactly the same. Switzerland's delegation, Geneva... – in Geneva is where all human rights agencies are. Why do we have a delegation to United Nations human rights agencies? President Torra... ; you, Counsellor Bosch, have said that we have to tell the truth to the world, we have to talk about repression, we have to talk about the victims, right? Of those who committed the coup d'état. So it is logical that we suspect that what the Geneva delegation, the Swiss delegation in Geneva, is doing is exactly that. And, if I'm wrong, if this citizen's deputy is not right, why are the delegates of the..., the responsible, the delegates of the foreign delegations more than four years ago not appearing in Parliament to say what they are doing. How do we ask for meetings, contacts of what they are doing, and the Government systematically refuses to give us that information? Why, when we ask for activities, activity reports, what are those foreign delegations doing, they deny us that information because they say they are internal documents? How are we to believe that what they are doing is not exactly convincing at the international level that those who committed the coup have done absolutely nothing and therefore need United Nations agencies to lobby and to convince of the kindness of those who are now in prison? If not, what they have to do is come to Parliament. First, to give all the documentation and all the information we are asking for in an exercise of transparency. What less? That is, transparency in the first place. And, secondly, accountability. Parliament must be subject to scrutiny. It is an exercise of transparency, it is an exercise of democracy, it is an exercise of good governance. It's an exercise to remove any suspicion of corruption from your department. As long as you don't, Counsellor Bosch – and I thank you for being here – we don't have a Department of External Action; it's not a problem of external action, it's a problem of lack of transparency and lack of accountability. And as long as that is the case, we have a propaganda department, because there is no debate, absolutely nothing is discussed, and there is no accountability in Parliament. It is a fake news department and it is a escapism department: it escapes the money with full hands, completely out of control; it escapes all those who have accounts pending with the justice, place them in some office at international level and, above all, do not appear in Parliament to explain what they are doing, and we are talking about years and years. They also escape the activities: What are they doing? What have you done during all those years? From Citizens we will not tire of demanding responsibilities, of demanding transparency, of demanding accountability. Come here, be brave, who are afraid of us? What are we afraid of? What am I afraid of? Don't you? So argue with us and move away from your department, which is the Department of Transparency, the suspicions of corruption. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.238.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.239.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, attribute to the playwright that aphorism that says the truth is the first victim of the war and, mutatis mutandis, we should also agree that it is in almost all types of conflict: political, social, etcetera. I think we're at one of these times where this is more manifest. Surely, at all times in the history of any human society there are, indeed, various attacks on the truth, if there is one alone, let us say it. But this is a time when this has actually been so and so there has been a lot of propaganda – a lot of propaganda –, perhaps in the bad sense of the term, which has been lacking in truth, sometimes with a greater or lesser degree of consciousness on the part of who emits this propaganda, but which has occurred both in the internal and, indeed, in the international sphere. And it seems to us that the Government of the Generality and organizations with Diplomat have been actively diffusers of the hippo, sometimes slander, defamation, very actively. And we do not pretend, as has sometimes been suggested by the groups that supported the Government, that a government of the Government of Catalonia, which obviously has a political line, is the fruit of a certain political majority that arises from certain elections and, therefore, with a distribution of particular preferences..., as I said, that a certain government of the Government of Catalonia cannot explain what its position is around what is going on in Catalonia in these later years. What's going on is that I don't think he's so authorized to do it with a defamation, let's just say, grollera, barroera, the conjunction of the functioning of the Spanish institutions. And I think that this has happened, that this has happened, more often than not, with great, hyperbolic ways, pretending that this one we live in is an authoritarian state, without democracy, which I think is very clear. Miri, we are a rare opinion, a strange class of oppressed birth in which the nationalist parties have ruled Catalonia thirty-three of the forty years in which it has held self-government, since the recovery of democratic institutions. In that, moreover, the supporters of the secession of Catalonia are found mostly – not only, but mostly – between the middle and middle classes, not so much among the high, obviously, but between the middle and middle classes is where the support for the secessionist movement is thick. And besides, secession movement that is produced in one of the regions, to speak in European terms, richer of the country and also found among the richest of the European Union. So, it's a little curious to say that this is happening once and for all from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, I say, as expensive as it is in the end. Now, the drastic solution – and we're referring to point 2 of what the People's Party is proposing – is to say, we're tanking everything, we're tanking all delegations, we're tanking everything, we're looking at it as if it's not the most appropriate approximation, when, at the end of the day, these types of delegations are delegations that have other autonomous communities and that we think are doing something wrong, and that from there, we're talking about messages that we can't agree with absolutely and that we think they contain a good part of falsehoods, but that we're not going to close down, because, if we follow the same logic, if we can't agree with the Subgroup of the People's Party, then we're going to do something about it. We have asked that the external action of the Government of Catalonia is due in the term of conformity with what the same Law of External Action says, and specifically for what it does in search of political consensus in the general orientations and strategies of the external action to be sought here, also with the forces of opposition, and the principle of mutual institutional loyalty and close to synergies with the Government of Spain. And at the time we asked that it is rationalised– not to shut down but to rationalize – the external representation network, seeking, to the extent possible, that all the different units of representation, of Action, of the Catalan Agency of Tourism, of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, can concentrate, to the extent possible, on the delegations. But don't shut them down. And, therefore, we have some of the elements of this movement that we will support and others that seem excessively drastic to us. What it is to combat, in any case, the defamations that have been produced, and we did not see this on the part of the previous government, the government of Mariano Rajoy, which seemed to dedicate itself to that in international politics it might be an innovation, that is the policy of the Brand and the pure, while others diphon its message.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.240.0	Thank you. Next, to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segòvia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.241.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, councillors... I, even though you don't have much to see with the motion that we are, but from the intervention of the representative of Ciutadans I would like to make a reflection. What is Ciutadans' concept of multilateral institutions if they think that for 150,000 euros it is possible to buy a resolution of an institution of United Nations? What is this concept of multilateralism and respect for the Union..., for example, for the European Union? And if that's possible, because I understand that it's what they've suggested and that some media have tried, today there's been a judgment of the Court of Justice of Human Rights of Strasbourg, of the European Union, which, unfortunately, has rectified its position on what it does to the warm returns. Following this logic, we should ask ourselves who has pressured or paid the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, because we understand that the resolutions have to do with the pressures and the money they give. Therefore, it is you who are questioning the multilateral system, which serves on many occasions to make resolutions and to make judgements about human rights, conflicts and more. But that's not what we were talking about. We were talking about another young man that we were going to propose, that just as there is the Bechdel Test to see which films meet minimum criteria of fairness and feminism and of women protagonists and so on, they should take a test to Parliament for the process test, which are all those motions that are supposed to talk about something but actually what they do is talk about the process. And continue to deal with the conflict, and continue to seek confrontation, and continue to seek justice. In this case it is, obviously, what the People's Party claims, not that it is a surprise, it is simply a finding. But it's more than that, what the People's Party wants is to cut down on self-government. It is no longer just that they always have the Constitution as the flag and its particular restrictive interpretation of the Constitution, but that, moreover, they do not seem to agree with or respect the State, that it is also approved and that there are many aspects of the State that have not been used by the Constitution, that are in force, such as that of the external action of the Government of Catalonia and the delegations abroad. You refer to the closure of the delegations of France, Regne Unit, Ireland, Germany, United States, Switzerland and Italy for a judgment of the High Court of Justice that annulled the decree of creation. Yes, but it turns out that what the Government of the Generality has done is to remake some other decrees that do conform to the law and put them back into operation. So, if we're always complaining about the fact that the government of the Generalitat has failed the law, maybe they're filling it out that we don't complain, right? And let's actually let them do it right, as he already insisted on his answer to the inquiry, the same counselor. He made the decrees in accordance with the law, so they didn't go through with it. But not only because of this, but also because – and we want to make it clear – we believe that the confrontation stage on the part of Minister Borrell was not a stage that you did not help to move forward with the resolution of the conflict, but it was more quickly to confront. I'm sure you've already had them well and felt... well, he was one of the ministers with whom they felt more identified as the People's Party, but we, in change, are more pleased with him than the current minister does now, who hasn't, in this matter, because, more than that, he understands that he is one of the powers of the Generality of Catalonia. You could propose many things: change what they do, question who is the purpose of the delegations, the resources... but no, directly we tank them all – we tank them all. So, look, I believe that the role of the delegations outside the Government of Catalonia is to defend the interests, in this case, of the people who live in Catalonia and of the Catalans and Catalans who live abroad, thousands and thousands of Catalans who have to leave during the crisis and stop the austerity policies and the labour reform of the People's Party. And it is to give an answer to all these people who do, who are calling delegations, and who, for example, is an external action plan to encourage the return of these young people, as we have included in the agreement of assumptions that we have signed with Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left of Catalonia. The problem with PP is when they think they only have to defend Spain's interests abroad. And the problem is what do they mean by Spain's interests? Because for you the interests of Spain are not the interests of the citizens of Spain, but of the Spanish enterprises: Repsol, Endesa and all those enterprises that use the resources of other countries many times to enrich themselves. But not only that, they are also the interests of Mr. Pedro Gómez de la Serna and Gustavo de Arístegui, this ambassador who used his role in the People's Party and his role in the embassy to be successful for Spanish businesses and to take over his commission. If these are the interests of the Spanish citizens that Spain must defend abroad, we do not believe that it is the role that the delegations of the Generality must make abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.242.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.243.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, we do believe that Catalan foreign policy, that foreign action must project the reality of our country with all its complexity and all its diversity. Therefore, obviously, if it is to be an external action faithful to reality, it must express and project at the international level the existence of a political conflict, a democratic conflict that operates according to the demand of the right to self-determination and the defense of certain civil and political rights. And more so when this is the subject, it is the object, of the performance of many international bodies and it refers to certain international rules. If the Catalan foreign action wants to represent the reality of the country, obviously, if it does not want to expel anyone, it has to represent at least 50_per cent of the people of this country who are in favour of the right to independence, but also 70_per_cent who are critical or critical with the Spanish monarchy, and who are part of this 80_per_cent who agrees with a referendum solution or 70_per_cent that is favorable to the non-judicialization and political resolution of the conflict. Therefore, if Catalan external action is to be true to reality, it must also express this reality, it must be brought before the international bodies of this reality of our Catalan society. And more – I insist – when it comes to international bodies that have skills and capabilities in their case to resolve and mediate these types of conflicts. I'm done. Public diplomacy – we have always said this and we will continue to insist – is a key element in the construction of a country, and we understand that it must be based on cooperation, solidarity and internationalism, because, moreover, this, and the compromise with the principles of internationalism, is the best way to project and co-responsabilize a country and a nation in the world. And that must be done, that must always be done and in this way, Mrs Segovia, whether they correspond as if they do not correspond to Spanish law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.244.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group is now the return of Congresswoman Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.245.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, as we were able to see in the Councillor's question – and we have seen in other interventions of the People's Party – about the delegations working for the independence process, it's the hit they share with Citizens, and the aim of this young man is no other than to defame the external action of the Generality. Therefore, the Republican Group will obviously vote against all points. Yes, the Government of the Generality has delegations abroad and promote and defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. Delegations, moreover, the opening of which is foreseen in the Statute – as in other statutes – and recognised for the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. And what are these delegations doing? So they don't do anything that doesn't make other delegations outside governments, for example, like the Andalusian Junta. And as it is the duty of any government seeking welfare in various areas of its citizenship, it uses them to explain to the outside what happens to Catalonia and to Catalonia what happens to the outside without having intermediaries. They're working for the best in the economy. Work for the country's international projection in a world every time more global to project its businesses, universities, entities, culture, etc. So we're being useless? Where's the toxicity, what did Congressman Serrano say? And they do this work of international projection legitimately and legally, framed also in the Law of External Action of Parliament. Catalan delegations do not offer parties or spend irrationally, as they are known to have Spanish embassies. They are useful for the country at many levels and I am sure that if the Spanish embassies are modernizing and looking for truth also for the Spanish economy, for the welfare of its citizens in the Spanish State also better. And we add that these delegations of the Catalan Government are more necessary even when we obviously do not expect the structures of the Spanish State to explain and defend the reality of what happens in Catalonia. In fact, it has been demonstrated with the continuous interference of the Spanish Government in the external action of the Generality. First with ministers Dastis and Margallo, guarantors of the Spanish anti-diplomatic policy, who then maintained Borrell and his "Borrellgate". All delegations on the outside – and Mrs Segovia has commented – are operational, they have been resorted to by defects of form in their creation, they have corrected the decrees that have repealed the previous ones and, therefore, normality and regularity. Don't explain another thing. In the young man, Mr Serrano, not only do they attack the delegations abroad, they also attack the Diplomat, who should know that it is not part of the Government of the Generalitat or of the delegations. It is a public-private consortium that develops activities based on values, interaction, links– yes, also with the Government of the Generality, but also with different actors of Catalan civil society representing, in a pluralistic way, Catalan society. For what he does to appearances, therefore, there should be no problem in regularly appearing in his parliamentary office. So did Councilman Bosch, and so did he in the interrogation to explain the government's actions. Yeah, we're transparent. But it's that the PP's will is not transparency and good governance, more quickly it's the attempt to boycott and criticize all the outside action that is due to the end, everything that has been done, everything that is done – and also from here, so a record to Councilman Romeva. A motion is not the mechanism for asking for requests to appear, but in the committees, and presenting petitions for appearance, following the established parliamentary procedure and obtaining these petitions for appearance. I was running out of time. There were a lot of things in this young man. Yes, I am also answering, if I may, to the Member of Parliament for Ciutadans. There's nothing to see about this donation of 150,000 euros to the United Nations, which is for human rights programs, for the protection of people who defend human rights in Colombia. Spanish is sometimes allocated this amount to the same office. So, man, we do have an influence, huh? , to Catalunya. And the working group rests on another UN body, so they are independent experts who, at the time, have been assigned to them. So Catalonia didn't have anything to do with it either. Therefore, putting this doubt on the table does not insult us, directly insults the United Nations. Last but not least, we were left with the assumption that the Catalan delegations cost EUR 6 million...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.246.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.247.0	...for fifteen delegations and in Andalusia, to the Junta d'Andalusia, it costs 24 million euros, and these seem good to them. What they do to me is these governments that whiten the extreme right, talk to them and rule them, that's what they do to me. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, it is now the return of MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.249.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President, Counsellor. So let's take a look at this late, growing up, this day that we've been a little happier to see Jordi Cuixart's smile on release again. [[Greetings.]] I suppose, entering the subject, this young man is one of the first exercises to be done in this coalition of Drets that they want to do with the Ciutadans group because, in fact, a few months ago we discussed and voted for a very similar young man, with almost the same points, who we were, in any case, rejecting, so it can't be. It's all right, we'll go back to the debate, we'll go back to the vote, because we don't get to vote, whenever the occupying forces don't come to get us. [[Widow's remorse.]] The purpose of this motion, obviously, is to close the delegations to the outside and its intention is that we tank them, but to do so, you, say, the members of the People's Party, that the delegations to the outside have severely damaged the image of Catalonia to the outside. But they obviously do, it's bad luck, the week the Financial Times, with its fDi magazine, gets a report saying that Catalonia is the region of southern Europe that is better to invest, foreigners, foreign investors, foreigners. So, it's bad luck this outside image didn't make it to the Financial Times. As they have already been informed, they have also asked for the closure of the delegations to be completed with the annulment of the decree, but have already been informed that these decrees are no longer in force, have already been replaced and repealed by the new decrees of 7 September 2019, fully valid, valid, therefore, totally legal for these delegations to be opened. As if you don't have enough to demand that delegations are tanked, you ask, I quote textually: « the cessation of all delegates of the Government of the Generality, including the delegate of the Government before the European Union. It's lucky they're from the Drets, because if you haven't thought about Stalin and his purges. [[The joker laughs.]] [[Widow's remorse.]] Because, of course, calling for the cessation of all delegates as such, it is certain that the Government will ask, in point 4, that the Government appoint a delegate or delegate of the Government before the European Union, a person with extensive and well-recognized trajectory, with international experience in the professional field of international relations. Surely the example is Mr. Millo, who is the Secretary of External Affairs to the Andalusian Junta, who surely the only external experience he has had is to be the government delegate to Spain in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] So much. Thanks for recognizing Catalonia as the Spanish foreign action. The department, in fact, appoints delegates to respond to different values of merit, experience, professionalism, to occupy the job and has been through transparent and competitive mechanisms. Transparency. It is clear that you are also asking for points 2a and 3 in the transparency portal where there is the entire government agenda, so I don't need to ask for points because it is already there, the Government Agenda in the transparency portal. Where there are also the activities due to end for these delegations abroad. Activities that are fan whenever they are not boycotted by Spanish embassies or are vetoed by Spanish embassies or some sent ones, where they even end up spying on Catalan citizens or communications, such as the communications of the vice president of this chamber, spying on some of the actions that had been done outside. Therefore, spying on citizens are certainly attitudes of external defamation that you said. External defamation of the democratic sense that Spain should have and that it does not have. I don't know if these are the synergisms you asked of Spain and the other Spanish institutions: spying on Catalan citizens abroad. But the government has decided to allocate 7 million dollars to help businesses, businesses, culture, citizens who live and work abroad and who have interests in Catalonia or who represent them. Delegations are also an open window in the world to explain who we are, what we are, what we do and how Catalonia fits into the global world that is still dominated by traditional states. But, look, we re-opened the external delegations that the 155th tripartite ended with the cessation of autonomy. A few weeks ago we opened three new delegations to Tunisia, Mexico and Argentina where there are Catalan citizens and where there are citizens of these countries who live here and need them. And we will open up more where we believe it is necessary to increase Catalonia's presence in the world. We'll do it to promote culture, language. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – the economy and aid to the people of Catalonia, but we will also do so to denounce the situation of repression experienced by the independenceists, the violation of our rights, the politicization of justice and to always demand freedom from political prisoners and return from exiles. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.250.0	To pronounce on the papers, the deputy Serrano has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.251.0	President, from the seat. Previously, only two observations. Mrs Delgado, if we present the question and this motion is precisely because in committee we ask the representatives of the Generalitat to appear abroad and their party, together with Junts per Catalunya, blocked it. That is why we have been forced to present this motion and try to reform the law, as you block those delegates from fulfilling their role and obligation of transparency and from giving explanations to this Parliament. As for the amendments tabled by Citizens and by the Socialist Party of Catalonia, we will accept the amendments by Citizens, because we believe that they contribute to the objective of the motion, in this case transparency, and we will therefore accept them. With regard to those of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, we would already like to see the principle of institutional loyalty and rationalisation work, but we are talking about a government that is not only boasting that it has failed to comply with the law, but that they are saying and threatening that as soon as they can they will do so again. So, I think it's asking for pears from the elm. And, in that sense, I believe that I preach or ask Mr Bosch to comply with the principle of institutional loyalty, so, I insist, I think it is to ask, in a very goodistic view of reality, to the elm, don't you? And, finally, to tell you that the People's Party is indeed party, together with others, which calls for the closure of such political delegations. But he's not the only one. The high representative of the European Union in foreign policy, who is not from my party but from his party, also thinks the same. Therefore, I believe that, in that sense, and on this issue, we are not as alone as you think we are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.252.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.253.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 2 and point 4, but you should go, on your return, separately. [[Susana Beltrán García asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.254.0	Mrs. Beltran? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.255.0	Mrs Segovia, Mrs Delgado, if there is no transparency and there is no accountability to Parliament, there have been suspicions of corruption. External delegates more than four years ago who did not appear in Parliament, depending on the Department of Transparency. Transparency and accountability have no political colour. And I am surprised that you, common people, you, Esquerra, do not give importance to this fact that measures the democratic quality of a government. Thank you. [[Greetings. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.256.0	Mrs. Segovia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.257.0	Yes, because of contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.258.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.259.0	I could tell which international indicator the fact of not getting the appearances required by a political group is considered an indicator of transparency. Thank you. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-13-4903.260.0	Quiet. [[Pause.]] Put your vote to the vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote more? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet! Is there a separate motion for a vote more? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Let's vote points 2 and 4 separately. So let's vote first on point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 38 votes to 76, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. We've voted all the points of this young man. Like I said before, there's no point in dealing with the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you.
