ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.1.0	Let's start the session... [[Discussions on the management of the health crisis of Covid-19, the measures approved for the future and the planned actions of social protection and economic recovery, and on the reconstruction of Catalonia before the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[255-00012/12 and 255-00013/12]] ...with the presentation of the subsequent resolution proposals to the debate on the management of the health crisis of Covid-19, the measures approved to make it happen and the planned actions of social protection and economic recovery, and the debate on the reconstruction of Catalonia before the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. We will then proceed to the presentation and positioning of the resolution proposals subsequent to these two debates on the management of the health crisis of the Covid-19. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of statements and the vote on motions for resolutions shall be the order of submission to the register. At the end of the speeches, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. The term for telematic voting will end at three-quarters of eleven in the morning, three-quarters of eleven in the morning for telematic voting. And then we move on to the debate on defence of the motions for resolutions tabled, with a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five for the subgroup. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.2.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies, deputies, the crisis of the Covid-19 has hit our society with all its hardness. We have suffered and continue to suffer the bitterest and most painful face of this health crisis in the form of loss of human lives and, almost without having come out of the dark tunnel in which it has plunged us, we begin to suffer the social and economic consequences of the virus. Difficult times come, very difficult times come, and we must say so. The Catalans need a government that focuses on the three major challenges that the Covid-19 has brought about. Firstly, prepare Catalonia to have the necessary health resources in view of a resurgence of this pandemic or the emergence of others in the future. Secondly, creating conditions for accelerating economic recovery and reducing the destructive impact of the pandemic on business and employment. And finally, care for the most vulnerable sectors of the population for the effects of the pandemic. These three axes must focus the action of an emergency policy against a virus and its consequences that do not understand either ideologies or borders. In this regard, it is essential to quarantine political differences in order to overcome this crisis as soon as possible. And, therefore, the People's Party proposes a whole series of measures to revive Catalonia and protect Catalans. But to be prepared for the rebounds or a possible second wave, it is essential to recognize errors. It is therefore time to streamline the Generalitat and bring it into line with the interests of Catalans and the new times. For years, nationalist governments of all colors have prioritized the interests of the process politicians, while opening false embassies around the world, closed primary care centers in Catalonia. Now, as before, the number one priority must be to strengthen the health system. And, to this end, we put forward dozens of proposals: from the budget increase with special care to primary care, to integrating health and social care to offer a better response to the most vulnerable population, betting on a new model of support for older people based on bringing more services closer to households so that the home becomes the centre of operations for caring for older people in vulnerable situations. On the other hand, if there is an area where the virus has hit with all its hardness, it has been the educational field. Therefore, we also present a series of proposals aimed at ensuring the quality of the education service with the safety of teachers and students, to reduce the logical concern of the educational community and families. It is also essential to adapt the workplaces to the new circumstances guaranteed by the provision of masks and other personal protective material. But the reactivation of the productive fabric will also depend on the access to liquidity of businesses and self-employed people after months without income. That is why we are also presenting measures in this regard. There is no doubt that trade and tourism are among the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Tourism promotion campaigns are important and we appreciate the Generalitat's recognition that happiness is united. But we must go further by creating the conditions necessary to ensure security and boost digitisation. We also propose a tax relief reform aimed at contributing to the improvement of the economy of families, self-employed and small businesses that have been affected by the exceptional situation generated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Finally, I do not want to forget either the health professionals, the workers of the elderly residences, the workers of the essential activities and sectors, the members and security bodies, the EMU, the fire brigades, the volunteers and all the people who with surrender, responsibility and self-denial have been at the forefront of the fight against the virus. They have been and are the true heroes of our time and deserve much more than our simple recognition, they deserve help, protection and resources. And in this regard, many of the proposals put forward by the People's Party today go. I'm done, President. The management of the Government of the Generalitat to the pandemic was presided over by the improvisation, by the changes in criteria, by the lack of unity of action within the Government itself and by the lack of willingness to reach political and social agreements around the struggle of the Covid-19. Respect and memory for the deadly victims of the pandemic requires not to hide the failures that have been made and to focus efforts on finding solutions. Therefore, from the People's Party, we present a whole programme focusing on health, education, employment and social policies for all Catalans. At present, these and not others should be the priorities of all parliamentary groups: more health, more education, more employment, more social policies and more coexistence. For this, the best contribution Mr. Torra could make is to call the elections. But as long as you don't, park the fabulations of the process to focus on mitigating the suffering of people as a result of the Covid-19. This would be the best contribution we could make to Catalans at such a crucial time in Catalonia's history. Thank you very much, President, President, Councillors, Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the speaker, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, is Mrs Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.4.0	Thank you, President. I think we're living here, a plethora that we need to reflect on. That it must help us to open a different look at the world that surrounds us. I think this pandemic has forced us to reset, to put up with it. Hang on at a time we probably didn't want to. But he did force us to make a stop. I remember when she was little and sometimes my mother reminded me – when she was going through a lot of truth or when she wanted to do things at the same time – she said to me, "If you don't dare, you'll end up with nature, you'll end up with a disease that will force you, sometimes, to be home two or three days, because it's up to you to stop and think about where we are. And I think on a global level what we've experienced is this. Nature has given us attention, let us reflect. Because we'd probably all agree that we're in a vortex that we can't bear. We have lived an unusual fact, we have lived an unusual fact, we have lived a global fact, and I think it should be two adjectives who accompany us in all this reflection that today lasts. And, tanmateix, also, does not make a mistake to analyze only from the sky, of which we know at this time, July 2020, how we acted in March 2020. It can't be. It wouldn't be fair. In March, at the beginning of April, there was a concrete information that was held at that time, with a global pandemic that affected all countries and decisions were taken at that time. So, we don't have after; I think we don't have after all the governments. Therefore, all the measures that can be taken now will be different and this must be ours, because we really learn from all those vivid experiences. I would first of all like to talk about the different demonstrations that we heard yesterday from the different parliamentary groups. And I'd put it in contrast to what I've always lived with. What happens when you lose a game? With the pandemic, with the Covid, with this management we've lost all a very important game. But I think that, despite that... because, when you lose, and it happens sometimes, it's like you face it later. And I think that's how we get here today. And we see how Ciutadans today presents us with PRs that probably when the analytics, you say: "Could you be disconcerted in something? So it would probably cost me to find him. But simply because sometimes Ciutadans plays one thing. We say we will work; "we want to work and we will get the cell to be bad, and say, "So, look, it would be good to have a bad cell, but when you think about it, it's that the bad cell already has it, we've already worked among all, it's already developed. So if they ask us if we vote for a black cell, you say: "Home, then why not? And then he makes another little trap, and it's, after the game, I analyze my team and decide that my bases, my own game won't lose a pilot; that my behinds, please, don't fail a shot, and that my pivots, just mine, take all the rebounds. Is that what you're talking about? That's why we'd live in the world of yuppie, or simply treat the citizenry without rigor and I think we deserve another type of seriousness here. And yesterday, Mr. Santi Rodriguez, who really always makes different proposals to us, he says, and he was very curious, right? , from... « It seems that Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya live only to go against Spain. I believe that every time we go out here, we defend a project like this, as we try and live the life of the future and with illusion. I would say to him: « Som-hi. Yesterday, when I listened to him, I thought: "We are there, risking you, once. They're letting us do that. They make a reference, which is very simple; if so, they leave us two years, and from here we analyze how many people will want to go back. But I don't think so; I don't think that's why this would mean that you're moving from that mindset of the 78th Regime. And while many and many years have passed, you only understand a way of governing, which is authoritarianism, which is a good way to confront society and constant confrontation. We'll see a lot of PRs in this debate. We should also look at how we have used the different groups, because it was a post-Covid monogram, those measures that we could try to apply to modify this future, and also discuss some that are probably more serious around Covid..., interest them in a young man, as we see with some Interior PR, some Housing PR, some Finance PR. Well, that's other than that. Then we have other tactics, don't we? , to use other parliamentary groups. We're seeing some really big PRs, aren't we? And we would have examples, therefore, of the CUP, or sometimes of the Communs or of the Socialists, that all the points are very affordable; there are all those little traps of concept, that "we would probably agree on everything, but there is only one that does not. We are all very aware of the system of these votes: I have voted all or not all, but there is someone who wants this point after having a guaranteed electoral campaign. And the commons... yesterday... yesterday it cost me, it cost me to follow Mrs. Albiach, because I really have to recognize that I'm a great admirer of the way you have to communicate, to plant things, to be always proactive. But, tanmateix, let's start seeing that there's a little conflict, shall we? Why, how does it look here to be opposition when the government has co-responsibility? Because many times we see that. We have many, or some PRs of common asking us to urge the government to do a lot of things. But, of course, you turn around, and you say, "Who am the government now?" Common and PSC. So let's go for the direct route. I put these measurements on the table, I put them on the table as an option to talk to Congress, and I think we'll find almost all of us here. It's money, it's resources, it's projects. Catalonia, and as long as it wants them, all these repercussions. Because they are co-responsible; they are co-responsible of the Government Sánchez-Iglesias; they are co-responsible of the initial military press wheels, when we speak of a health pandemic; they are co-responsible that the first measure was re-centralized in a ministry without musculature. When they know, and here they have defended it a thousand times, that centralization in many things is never the best tool. And with some press releases from President Sanchez that the diumenge was already informing us all, eh, President? That's what you were informed of. It does not form part, as we are asked to do every day, of 'dialogue, we are part of the projects, we are part of the solutions, but when one has to develop them it is found that..., mmm! Sometimes it's easier for me to demand it from others than it takes. Therefore, we place them, lords of the PSC, because cynicism in some of their PRs, of "when I have the power. to rule Spain as a flag, but the demand is for the Generalitat when resources don't arrive, it's to donate it once. I would also like to take advantage of it to congratulate Constellera Vergés, already a personal title. Thank you. Thank you for the way you communicated with the citizenry throughout this management. It's been a long time since we say we want a feminist policy, a women's policy; not in contrast, but simply because sometimes we express ourselves in a different way, proper, direct, pedagogical. The feeling this morning about adult citizenship, talking about what the citizenry wants to listen to, and what it might cost, but it's also explained. Therefore, many thanks for bringing to the table also emotions, mental salvation, worries; this emotional education, what we may have missed – that there is a lot of work also from Education to include it in the schools – that has helped us in these three months of confinement at home. Thank you very much. And ten minutes, in the end, it's courteous. Our PR: What do we want with all these? We want to expose them to compromise and ambition. Commitment to and for the country; commitment from government and commitment from democratic representation, from the executive responsibility of the Government of the Generality and from the constant and demanding high voice of this Parliament. This is why we have presented PRs that risk, concretely, define strategies, propose actions for the proper government and set out all the initiatives of legislative content and modification of game rules at times obsolete that are to be adopted at our levels of modernity. That's why we talk about ambition, about transformation, about changing motlles. We don't want to go back to a new reality, we want to take advantage of this to build a different world. The mistake is to think in terms of recovering status; we don't want to go there, here, we don't want to be conformists. We want real answers, not pal·liatius or antithermics. And a progressive government that came, that I executed, but that still there aren't those norms that still offend us. Tell him "I bite him, tell him "different reforms. From here, what we want is to transform, to give an optimistic look to people with new, valuable projects, and who are trembling with everything that from this Parliament (sounding voices) – yes, I ended up, president – we have been demanding a lot of time that we want a different society. So, now is the time, not to come out here and say the same time, but to change it. I think... he left us in Pau Donés. I was listening to a song yesterday that said, "I don't want you to be my friend, because I aspire to something different. Therefore, I believe that here what we want is this compromise of all, because the country we all esteem and that is why we would leave our lives there. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.5.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Granados has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.6.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, deputies, when President Torra quoted the speech of the German President, we thought he would donate a message that looked like, but sadly, it wasn't like that. In the first place, he began rewriting the story assigning himself to suspending the Mobile World Congress. But everyone knows it wasn't like that. On February 16, President Tora said: "We have experienced a process of overinformation and intoxication that has ended up causing cancellation. And when he quoted from the speech of the German President, he reproduced exclusively the necessary proofs of recognition to the efforts made for the people, but, President, he overshadowed the intense cry made to solidarity by President Steinmeier. The German president held a record for the victims of Bérgam, Alsàcia, Madrid and New York and then said: "Germana can't get out of the strong and healthy crisis if our lives don't do it either. This white flag is here for a motive. Thirty years after the reunification of Germany and seventy-five years after the end of the war, the Germans were not only criticized, but we were also obliged to show European solidarity. In contrast, the president of the Generalitat, the vice president and the spokesman of Esquerra explained to us, repeatedly, that the solution is that Catalonia leaves alone; much different from what the German president gave. President Torra began his speech saying that he must automatically mistrust everything that governs our institutions or any government in the world that emerges to put on medals and to boast of the work done. And, in fact, this, sadly, was the only purpose of his speech and that of all his advisers. But, look, in the case of the President, the difference in his speech with that of the German President is fully explainable, because President Torra is from a party of right-wings and President Steinmeier is from a party of left-wings. What has less explanation is the contrast still more marked with the speech of the Republican Left. Mrs. Vilalta said at least six times that her political proposal is the only good one for Catalonia. Don't say the best, say the only good. And it makes fifteen references to Catalonia's resources staying in Catalonia. The economist Piketty has already shown with you and for his insolidarity, since, as the own fiscal balances prepared for the Generality say, Catalonia pays approximately per income and per population, the same as you have always said it would be just. The Republican Left is the only left-wing party that makes a political use of fiscal hardship, as it usually does the conservative parties of the rich regions of Veneto, Flanders, Bavaria, but never makes a left-wing party. Anton Costas wrote to The Newspaper the other day that the action of this government can be due to the incompetence or belief that "the Catalans are the best in everything. His speech is that everything is done magnificently and when any concrete problem is identified, they resort to the convenience of the fiscal deficit or that the Government of Spain blames it. It's always that... two explanations. And I think that the problem with funds is not that you avoid criticism, it is that you are not aware of the needs of our public services. Because this is the only way to explain that before the inn of the vital minimum income in two months, the councillor of Benestar Social and Treball has devoted more effort to coordinating a manifest contrary to the vital minimum income than to coordinating with the Government of Spain in which way we can set the minimum income and make compatible with the guaranteed income. And it's not because the Spanish decree says it, it's because it says the law that was approved here of guaranteed income. It's been three years because the guaranteed income is set aside. Three years to make a deployment order. And we are six years old, six years old, hoping that the social benefits to Catalonia will be reorganized. Therefore, either they are not aware of the need for better protection of our system, or they do not know how to do so. Another idea I want to move. This debate was to be a serious and productive debate. We have all repeated that we are in a pandemic with an uncertain evolution, without a vaccine and only a jiphre: today in Catalonia there are 127,747 more sore people than a year ago – this is the magnitude of the precipice. President Torra formally asked the Parliament. This debate was very necessary, President, and it was also necessary to agree on how to approach reconstruction among all, beyond ideology: health emergence, social emergence, economic emergence, educational emergence. My group has facilitated it, president, proposals, on two occasions; we have collected decrees that have led to validation without dialogue or talking at any time with the opposition – twenty-three decrees, which is said to be just now. I think today you might recognize that you have a responsible opposition, from the CUP to the PP. I think you should do this exercise and come here and say that you have a responsible opposition: without talking, without dialogue, all the decrees have been validated. I think, and may I also remind you, that at the side of this is to put it on the table, too, that the groups that support the government have not raised any alarm at the elections to the Congress of Deputies. And, President, we were hoping for an early job, a calm reflection, and there was nothing about that, no phone call or email, and, frankly, I'm sorry. We have made two transactions with government groups, and we thank them, but we expect the government's leadership from the dialogue with political and social forces. But it's not there, President, and the country is asking for it. "This was to be a serious and productive debate," he said. And, sadly, it has become a low-flying debate, a mirage of the crisis between the partners and between the space of one of the partners. It's a plea counter-programmed by President Puigdemont, this is the situation. It was supposed to be a reconstruction debate and not a pre-election debate. President Tora said the 29th generation that he was disenfranchised and the legislature exhausted – yesterday reminded the president of the parliamentary group of commons –; then the commons voted the assumptions, and then the pandemic came. And it seems that if he didn't want to do anything, president, he would have to call elections, or if he didn't tell us when he was planning to call them. Because with nerves, with electoral cliques and tactics, we don't do the job that citizenship is asking of us, and I think it's our obligation. And, therefore, while I did not call us to the polls, what I do ask is that you vote for our resolution asking them to tell the Reconstruction Commission monthly..., and give account of the management of their government. Let us hope that this committee can do the work that we have not been able to do in this House, because as La Vanguard said: "Torna has focused the post-Covid reconstruction on the fight for resources, talking about resources, assumptions, transparency and retention of accounts. But you spent all your time in this faristol – yours, that of Vice President Aragonès and all the advisors – to claim money and not give explanations of what money we have in Catalonia and what has come to it. They say: "For Catalans, all, and Europeans, part. For us, this is an insolidarity song. They do not think that in the accounts of coming to the plenary, exclusively, to ask more of the pharistoll caldria than in giving us explanations, thread by and with transparency, where, in later term, the resources of our assumptions? All this is called for in a resolution: transparency, knowledge of expenses, the impact of tax receipts, knowledge of the destinies of resources coming from the Government of Spain and, as before, presentation of the presuppositional change of 2020. Of all this – Mrs. Caula says that they have made good resolutions – they will vote against us. And they will vote against all and every one of the presuppositional commitments; they didn't want to negotiate a presuppositional party, and it's a shame. We need a strong government, and if you're spoiling the information and you don't want to negotiate concrete resources in the Reconstruction Plenary with opposition, you have to tell them you're not doing the job. We have made concrete proposals, not to the sun: about the presuppositional restructuring; what to do with the companies, the autonomes, the joint ventures, with the sectors that have suffered the most from the Covid; how would it be good to have programs to give a transformative response through digitalization and the ecological transition to our product fabric. And, look, they've made a deal with the Citizens' Group, and we're going to abstain, just for this reason, because they came here and didn't want to negotiate with the presuppositional opposition. And, therefore, if they don't want to negotiate, they don't have the credibility to keep them in practice. I quickly end up with other proposals linked to the rights of citizens and equal health. If we all applaud, we turn applause into commitments to health and social workers. And if strengthening salvation is the priority, at the same time we have the care of great people. The week we're going to talk about it, but here we're already asking to reverse the privatization of health care to our residents. And lastly, two more emergencies. Education, the urgency and full digitization of our entire education system. Nor did the devices arrive when the course ended, nor did the department make the dialog that touches the educational community. That I didn't pass us back. And of women, we have said this: a crisis that has impacted and particularly impacts women more strongly. Calendar [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] all the resources and you serve for all the women and children who have suffered violence – and I finish, president. We know that we cannot have money without limits, and that is why we can negotiate from the fort with the agreement to Catalonia. But you don't look for it, and you're apart, we're all, we're all, we're all sicker. The virus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.7.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.8.0	... we stand together, and rebuild it so we can do it with agreement. I think we're still in time. I leave behind the one that separates our society and concentrates on the agenda of work and social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Marta Madrenas has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, welcome president, counselors, counselors, associates, associates, deputies, deputies. So I don't coincide in many of the things that the Granados company just said. And the first thing I want to do, Mr President, is to thank you, you who are leading this whole government, so thank you for this impulse and this leadership respect the celebration of this plenary, because it is important that governments, that public managers hold the citizens to account, and that's what they have done, and that's what they have done, and they have done rigorously and provided data and figures, and explaining with honesty and lawfulness how we saw this complex, difficult, assumed management, that they have assumed and still assume this health crisis, and also because it is important that the city knows, therefore, from the opinions of the various political forces, which reflections can respect this management and also what measures this government can bring to life, but that we can ask the government to carry out this terrible task. Therefore, many thanks, Mr President, for the impetus, many thanks to the whole government for having managed with rigour and coming here to hold back and to explain it perfectly. Yes, it is true that the crisis of the Covid is going to add, in fact, and is accelerating two other global transformations as well as this, like that of the Covid, in which we were already immersed. I am particularly referring to the climate crisis and the fourth technological revolution, the fourth industrial revolution, which is this revolution known as technological and digital. There are three global challenges that we now have in front of us and that forces all governments around the world to act in a swift, rapid way, and this must be done by the hand of all civil society, the joint civil society, the joint economic agents, as well as knowledge centres and public leaders of governments. And it's urgent, and the government has set up. He has already laid down, he has laid hands on the work with various initiatives that Junts for Catalonia applaud. We are ahead of a crisis..., of global crises, as I have just said, but it is certain that the responses must be local, because the gravity of this crisis is that we can identify with names and surnames, identify the people, the people who have left us and their family members who suffer a dramatic pain, the workers who have lost their jobs, those entrepreneurial people, those autonomous people who have seen their bills or even have had to lower their blindness. And all these people – because we're talking about people – are waiting for solutions. They expect solutions from all of us and wait for a horizon, and a horizon of hope, with rigor, but they also expect that there are no repeated mistakes. And we are aware that management has been and will continue to be very complex. A lot. Here and all the way. And in this, we all agree, and who does not want to recognize it, obviously is wrong or demagogic; above all because of uncertainty, because at the beginning it was very difficult to know what the results of each of the actions we would do were very difficult to fight a crisis in which there was a great disconnection. Now, that wasn't an excuse not to make decisions, and so, how they're going to take it, so possibly some... – and you said it and self-criticized it from you – maybe some wasn't the most perfect one or maybe made a difference with a later look. And this is taking into account that our Government is in a context – and yes, it is important, it is not a minor issue, it is not always ‘the same' – of re-centralisation; of re-centralisation of those most basic skills for proper crisis management. And they certainly couldn't have been as effective as you would have wanted if you had had the right tools. And in this sense, for example, it is obvious that we are joining in a proposal by the Republican Group that makes..., that goes to ratify that conviction that we had from the first moment on behalf of Junts for Catalonia that the re-centralisation and that the Madrid state-of-arms decrees are turning into one for all of us at the time of prioritizing the interests and realities, the needs of our citizens. And I repeat, it's good, it's self-criticism, and that's good. And it's obvious that things could have done better, sure, or different, sure, like I said before. Now, it is also true that the citizenry recognizes the efforts made by its government, and indeed that it appreciates and recognizes the efforts of transparency and information. And it's more – and that's also different from what the Spanish government did – and it's always been about the president and the advisors who always showed up, the citizenry as well as the mature people – not childish them – and responsible, and explaining things as they were. And this is important, and this has to be put in value, because then, then, then, the citizenry, effectively, responds with solidarity, with compromise, with responsibility, that is what we have to ask and that is what you have done. And in this sense, the citizenry, that's why he answered so well. And taking into account that I'm talking about citizenship, so I want to point out two motions for resolutions that we bring together for Catalonia and that they are, for one band, recognizing the essential role that civil society has made, that civil society has had, also in managing this whole crisis, also to minimize the negative results of this crisis. And it's that we have a social fabric that has... that has become an absolutely essential network to deal with this pandemic and that can put it in value, and you've done it from the government, and we've done it from the Juntes pour Catalunya as well. And in particular, and this is also another motion for a resolution, we also want to make a huge recognizance and demand that all those professionals, all those professionals in the whole health system, be rewarded than with them effectively precarious – because they couldn't go any faster – so they gave it absolutely everything, and unfortunately all the almost col·lapse that was suffered and that caused the whole government to suffer a lot in its conjunction, but their delivery is a model for everyone, and so we want to recognize it, and we also appreciate it being given support in this proposal by Juntes for Catalonia. Another proposal we cannot overlook: the recognition of the local world. Where he didn't go... and in good faith, where the government couldn't get there, we got there from gatherings all over Catalonia. And now is the time to strengthen all these bonds and to recognize the extraordinary work that is done from the local world and from the assemblies of all of Catalonia as essential part of the solution, and so they have..., not to see penalized, on the contrary, they have to be reinforced with that finance that the ladders have. How can it be that at the end of two weeks of entering into this furious health crisis, that it may not be very spatious to know that after a crisis in the terrible labor market, it is reduced to 50_per_cent, on the part of the Spanish State, the active policies of occupation? Who can explain that? Ciutadania, no. How can the ERTOS... – which very well, the congratulations, an important measure –, but how can it be that two and a half months after being asked ERTOS for drawings of thousands of workers, at least at Girona's demarcation, many, two and a half months later, not yet charged? Who did we have to take on the aid for food, housing, medicines...? The gatherings. I mean, it's a very good measure, but it's that she handled it, a little weak. What's wrong with the survivors? But why did they insist that we put them on the benches to return the loan? Listen, the joints we can now borrow, we've done strict management, we can and we want to do it, because we want all the resources at the disposal of the citizenry to help them; the banks don't do anything. Gentlemen of the Spanish Government, please, all the municipal associations, all the assemblies we've been asking for. And as President Puigdemont said: "if only someone makes a signature! And it's been three months since we asked. And that directly affects people. So we also wanted to reflect on a motion for a resolution. And also show that Catalonia is a country of talent, and this is hope: that we have always led, and we have also led with technological conversions; talent, as President Puigdemont always said, is our oil and it is what we need to exploit. And, in this sense, we also believe it is essential to develop the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge as a foundational tool of progress, as a foundational tool of innovation, as a tool of cooperation also between the public and private sectors. I'm done. These days we have talked about many proposals and the debate has been in place, and today we approve many measures, and we urge the Government of the Generality to develop many projects and many programs that I am sure will have an impact on the benefit of citizenship, which is the will of all of us here today. But reality is coughing up, and it's frustrating to recognize every day, to see every day, the ones we carry public management, that we don't have the tools to keep pace with the political ambitions we want for our country. But that doesn't have to be an excuse not to give the most of us. And I'm sure we will overcome this crisis, as we've always done, with a powerful, cohesive civil society, with talent, with innovation, with entrepreneurial hope and with a strong country in adversity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.12.0	Good morning, President. Advisers, advisors, deputies, deputies, today we speak of the « Ple de la reconstruction, a term that seems to have agreed among all of you, from Ciutadans to Catalonia in Comú, Esquerra, Junts per Catalunya, the Socialist Party. « Reconstruction, what do we have to rebuild? Do we have to go back to leaving things as they were before? With a language that might include belch, right? Rebuilding what's been destroyed. We would prefer to speak of the "plenty of transformation, of a social transformation that is now very necessary, because in many of your proposals for resolution you speak of the systemic crisis..., alas, of the crisis arising from the Covid-19, but obviating that the Covid-19 is accelerating a systemic crisis, a crisis of a system that is exhausted, that does not respond to the rights and needs of citizens and that continues to feed powerful, against a popular and hardworking majority that is passing it worse every day. In a few months, there have been lower social security than in the entire 2008 crisis. Many people affected by ERTEs, the situation from September onwards will be even more difficult; this was already wished or explained by the same vice president, based on economic projections. There are a lot of people who won't sign their contract for tourism activity, from which there are a lot of jobs in the Catalan countries. And why? We do not say that because we defend this product model in which most jobs, people depend on construction or tourism or on car, but because this is not random, it is the result of a very concrete system that has aspired to a total dependence on three very concrete sectors. And now we can also talk about public services and the situation as we have come to this health emergency. It is that if we had perhaps given the value of healing, aging and dependence in our society, we would not have come to this situation, at such a point, so close. Don't you see that the workers who support life, those who work in the residences of great people, the socio-sanitary techniques, the people who care for people who have mental health disorders are mostly women? On many occasions, they migrated, with very precarious working conditions. We have asked them in infinity of occasions, previously to the Covid-19, after the Covid-19, who do the favor, as at least from the Administration, of guaranteeing a sum of 1,200_euro for forty hours of workday to the workers who provide such important public services through private enterprises. And it's that you deny it. How can we talk about quality employment policies in debates and in pre-election campaigns, which we are already living on, if you are not guaranteeing decent conditions for those who care for the great people, children, people with mental disabilities, people with disabilities in our society? The truth is that today we are glad that it is happening..., or that we are coming up with proposals for a resolution that we are presenting, such as, for example, the proposal to suspend the agents involved in the racist aggression of the Bages. We are glad that today we can also approve a commission of inquiry to examine internal control, evaluation and correction mechanisms, as well as the possibility of implementing independent control and control mechanisms of police actions, before an opaque audit, which is a new prey of hair to the citizenry, which we have taxed on our networks police actions that are unjustifiable. Stop closing files and please try that in this country the right to protest and political dissent is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr José María Cano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We arrived at the final part of this specific plenary session, a plenary session proposed by the parliamentary group that I represent, on something that is fundamental: on how we approach the reconstruction of Catalonia in the face of the impact of the pandemic. A plenary that we have proposed so that there will be a real turning point, a before and a after, and that will allow us all to reflect on the need to prioritize the exit from this situation by pooling efforts, leaving aside everything that does not unite us, that does not serve, and adding everything that serves to save lives or to save jobs. We are plunged into an unprecedented recent health crisis, in which thousands of Catalans have lost their lives that cannot be just a figure, a statistic; it is the drama of many Spanish families, to which I wish to express my deepest condolences. And the priority cannot be other than to save lives and to guarantee, whatever happens, the health and social care of citizens. And there's one thing we should be very clear about: the virus is still here, it's not gone, it's still between us. Therefore, as politicians at the service of the citizenry, we cannot relax our level of work or our level of commitment, and we cannot lose a single minute, nor a single resource, because we have to devote it to fighting this pandemic. Families are having a bad time, and they need politicians who are up to it. And so, the first thing we put forward in our proposals is a contingency plan, a plan to be prepared, on alert to a possible resurgence. What has happened to our parents and grandparents in the residences is indecent. After a lifetime of working, after a lifetime of fighting, they have been abandoned. It's a failure, and that can't happen again. We need to ensure health care for all Catalans, with special attention to people with some kind of disability or with autistic spectrum disorders, for example. And to achieve that, our health needs to have sufficient resources, and we need to get those to anticipate us and to attend to any resurgence. So much human resources, which also goes by recognizing the immense work – and from this atrium I want to do what – of all the health personnel, who have given everything, putting at risk their own life to care for and save that of others – as material resources, to carry out their work safely: robes, gloves, masks, protective equipment or rapid testing. And that contingency plan we are proposing includes social measures. Our aim is to ensure that no one is left behind, with measures that guarantee support for the most vulnerable families and minors; measures that protect victims of sexist violence or measures against child abuse and abuse; and proposals that guarantee the functioning, with all security measures, of essential services, of all those who, through their efforts, have allowed others to confine themselves. A contingency plan that guarantees the right to education; we have found that the raw reality is that the digital divide remains unsustainable. It also addresses measures that facilitate reconciliation; confinement has been very complicated for many workers with children or who carry out care tasks. It is, therefore, a complete proposal, which is a real plan in the face of a possible rebound, which I hope will not happen, but we can never lose sight of – as I told you – that the virus is still there. But not only do we have to guarantee health and social care, the other main axis has to be economic recovery, the defence of employment. It is extremely urgent to put in place measures such as those we propose to revive our economy, to generate wealth, to generate prosperity. I say that it is urgent and vital because it is three and a half months late, with an absurd paralysis based on the complaint; with an Economics Council defending privileges and foresight, when the 2020 budgets have to be reoriented and those already have to be reoriented, in order to eliminate all superfluous spending and to be able to devote it to the fight against the pandemic, and to work fully already in the 2021 budgets – I still have no news of them. Because it is more than obvious that this cruel health crisis has resulted in an economic crisis. The pandemic has forced us to confine ourselves at home, affecting the movements of people and goods; it has closed the borders, paralysing economic activity. We live in a shock of both supply and demand: supply, undermining production capacity, paralyzing supply chains, and demand, driven by the fall in purchasing power and changes in consumption areas. And it is a global, cross-cutting situation that is affecting all economic sectors. The data are very worrying: the fall in GDP was 4.2_per_cent in the first quarter of the year, when we were confined only part of March, and the different studies show us even worse scenarios. Therefore, in the short term, the crisis is going to be tremendous, unprecedented in times of peace; a global crisis that is not progressive, is immediate, as it is a health crisis, and is marked by tremendous uncertainty and great complexity. And that's because we haven't controlled the pandemic yet, where there may be a rebound. The key sectors of the Catalan economy are very much affected: tourism, trade or industry, which was already undergoing a major process of transformation and relocation. One of them is suffering in the middle of the pandemic, which is the case of Nissan. And keep in mind, those who want to charge it, that tourism represents 12_per_cent of GDP, and foreign tourism contributes 21,000_million annual revenues, when there are practically no flights at the moment. That's thousands of Catalan families who run out of income. And our proposals go, first of all, by allocating resources to halting the economic decline. We are facing major challenges for the future and new opportunities will arise, but we must be very aware that our starting point is what it is: a very precarious labour market. The competitiveness of recent years has remained at the expense of low wages. We are facing a Catalan economy composed of 95_per_cent of self-employed and small businesses with less than ten workers, who are having a very bad time because they see how receipts accumulate at the end of the month and have no income or funding to endure months without billing. In addition, they are self-reliant and small businesses that have many difficulties in financing to make major strategic and technological changes without help. That's why we have to be realistic. Yesterday I heard – and today too – parliamentary groups basing their speech on changing everything, on creating a new world from night to morning. And yes, it is true, new opportunities are being created – then I will enter into it – but it is up to us to start from a reality, it is up to us to start from the present. It is important to defend that jobs and the business fabric are not destroyed. Many Catalans have no income, Catalans who have lost their jobs and others are concerned about theirs, with autonomouss who plan to close their activity. Let us remember any street, the streets of any municipality, and we see many shops that have not reopened after confinement. And to all of them we cannot say: "Look, you will rise from tomorrow with a technological business, of great added value, because it is not true. They will need time and possibly support from the Administration. The only way is to implement – as we propose – direct aid and financing lines tailored to their size and needs for liquidity. And that is why we also propose to urge the Government of Spain to make ERTS more flexible for the companies and the self-employed most affected, precisely to ensure that the maximum number of self-employed and enterprises survive. That is the only way to ensure that jobs are maintained. That's the only way to generate wealth. And keeping jobs is the best social policy we can do. I have told you about measures in our contingency plan, I have told you about our proposals to save jobs and recover economic activity, and now I want to talk about hope. Because, yes, new opportunities are being created. The pandemic is acting as an accelerator of processes that were already under way: digitization, robotics, artificial intelligence. In short, in the most information-intensive and knowledge-intensive sectors. That's where our future has to go. But..., and that future will be built by Catalan society, but the Administration can also have its role – and an important role – by facilitating things for those who undertake or want their business to thrive with medium- or long-term policies, such as those we propose to take advantage of new trends, reinforcing R & D investment, betting on quality training with a leading university and cutting-edge professional training, also taking care of the environment. The final thrust of our proposals is the creation of a committee to study the reconstruction and social and economic reactivation which will be responsible – and it is essential – for evaluating and monitoring the agreements adopted in this reconstruction plenary. Mrs Anna Caula, from Esquerra Republicana, has had to speak half a citizen's speech, because I have to understand that they do not have too many proposals. I, however, have to apologize to my parliamentary group because in ten_minutes I am not able to synthesize all the work they do and will do. And I would also like to thank Mrs Fort for her work in agreeing on some of our proposals that have made it possible to incorporate useful measures on trade and on budgets. And now, gentlemen of the Government, you have to decide whether you want to add, decide whether you accept our hand extended for a change or want to remain the problem of the Catalan economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies. We have come to this plenary this week with the intention – as we do – of discussing the differences proposed to emerge from this crisis. In our case, what we wanted to discuss was also models, economic models and social models. Because if the reasons for the crises are systemic, if what we are living is nothing more than an aggravation of a systemic crisis that has been going on for years, which has been going on since 2008 and long before and is nothing more than an aggravation, we understand that the answers must also be systemic. They have to go to the reasons that cause this crisis, not just to put down dashes and put down things that are needed to deal with the impact of this crisis: to tell what has been done and what has not been done, what should be done and how it should be done. Who's got to pay for the outflow from this crisis. But we may have to recognize that we have not all raised the Plea in the same way. We are getting out of this House with many approved motions for resolutions, with great consensus on some issues, and that is fine. We need to find broad consensus to get out of this crisis, because it will require great effort and courage. But we are also concerned that this close to support causes us to really love what we think about how to do things, how to do things, and how to do politics. We don't all want to rebuild to get back to the same thing there was. We don't want to rebuild for this. We want to rebuild to change. We think it has to be rebuilt, because it's all very bad, but it's very bad long before this crisis caused by Covid. We think these models have to be compared. If we want to continue with Mr. Mas's 2008 retail model, which ended with salvation and education in Catalonia, which pre-characterized them with the retail of the European Union of Austerity, or if we move forward with a model that defends the armoring of services, redistribution and social justice, and that is what we have wanted to land in the resolution proposals that we are carrying. A model that wants to put people in the center, knowing that this also means that someone has to pay for social protection and economic recovery policies, those of economic transition, and that these people have to be the ones they have most. Let us call for a solid European union that will be redistributed in truth and that will be – a little more – than the ones that have more pay. Because if we want to move towards a sustainable world that blocks other pandemics, such as climate emergency, male violence, denouncements and housing emergency, there are strong political issues that are emerging in the context of the problem of social injustice. On the other hand, what we found the other day with President Torra is right there from the ball to the wing, where I didn't follow him, they've been doing everything wrong. President Torra knew everything, what he had to do; he knew it long before anyone gave it long before anyone was convinced. When they do not deal with it, badly; when they deal with it, late, badly, too, because, clearly, obviously, they did deal with it late. The Government of Catalonia seems to have always been very clear, as it should have been; a government that symphonies guaranteed citizenship with universal income, a government that demanded a vital minimum income that was already in agreement with the Government of the State's government's coalition or a conciliation aid, at a time when all taxes had been suspended; a government that criticized and gave way to the implementation of the vital minimum income after carrying more than three years to deploy the guaranteed income of citizenship, which was only above, above, more than, to one of the four families that needed it. This is the government that gives lessons. A government that talks about public health, but then pays 43,000 euros to the privates per patient, without nearly quantifiable criteria, and is the most important of all the state. Or that it approves of a remuneration to the health workers who are classy, who are female depending on the category, and not on the effort and the exposure and the work that has been done, and that leaves out the staff of the net, for example, that has been commissioned in a 30_per_cent. A government that has not had any idea how to defend the school as essential; or, then, has no idea, at hours of this time it still does not have it. That's right, he still has the whole educational community today – and today I felt it at my daughter's school – bewildered by what it is to do in September, and we don't know yet. A government that all he does is ask for money. The last xifra is 30,000_million. We started with 3,000, didn't we? Vice President Pere Aragonès? It's 30,000, we're assuming that the next week will still be a lot more. A government that requires thousands of foreign millions, but doesn't say how to get these money, and the only one that says is that the tax bill has to be suspended. So no. If it's not about how we get this money and a redistributive, progressive and green tax reform to get these resources, where they have the most money, it'll come smoke. And we are committing ourselves to this reform. Here and to the Spanish State; yes, to the Government in which we are. And we will continue to defend that this is in coalition agreement. And I say it to Mrs Caula: yes, we are to the Government of the State, but it is what we bring here..., it is because we want the Parliament of Catalonia to be the one who demanded it from the Government of the State, not just us. That is why we need support from parliamentary groups here, which we hope to get. Because you know, you've also been and are in a lot of places where you vote a lot of places where your parties ask the Catalonian General for things, when they're here, too. Why? Because that's political. Vote where you think you are where you need to be and work hard to get it. So let's hope that whatever you're asking me here in the state will vote for when you're there, too. For example, repealing labor reform, huh? Junts per Catalunya voted against Bildu's move to repeal the reform. Yes, but the motion for a resolution is signed on which we call for the repeal of labour reform! And then they go and, two days ago, they vote against this in Congress. It's the same, together for Catalonia signs this motion for a resolution; well, then here we all have some contradictions and some inconsistencies. Or when Esquerra Republicana votes for things that affect the Interior Council of the Government in which they are also in. Or so, we're all a little politically responsible, because everyone here has a lot to do and a lot to work together. So, just like we, President Torra, ask us to help him, we ask him to help us in those votes that we also need to do to the Spanish State to get the tax on the great fortunes. We hope to find them also in this tax on the great fortunes when it is worked and spoken at the level of the Spanish State. Speaking of our proposals for a resolution, I think the other day the group president already explained to them a little something that is what we are focusing on. We believe that social services must be shielded, we are told. We believe that we must also move towards a reconstruction that is more sustainable, and that is why we do not agree with many of the obsolete and unsustainable projects that this government wants to bring forward. We want to bet on the industrial pact. We believe – and I want to say this clearly – that reconstruction must also go hand in hand with housing emergency, and we must say that we are surprised by the poor of the government's proposals on housing emergency, honestly; we were very surprised that this is all that the government has to say about housing emergency. Therefore, we assume that they will vote on the motions for resolutions that have been put forward by other groups, such as ourselves or the CUP, which has..., made us, in some way, the favor of presenting in a motion for a resolution the proposals that the Commission of the ILP presents 24/2015, because this Parliament is a position on these proposals girls from civil society. And yes, we need elections, we're defending that we need elections, because everything we want to set up, everything that we think needs to be done to get out of this and out of this better... and to get out with a fairer society, we've already said, we don't think this government can captivate it. We think President Torra isn't the person who can captivate the exit to this. And now I'd like to talk about a little bit of the proposals from other groups. I'd like to start with Ciutadans, wouldn't I? True things, that they say. They present us with a contingency plan that yes, that is fine, we have focused on different measures and we believe that, effectively, they are not at the scene of problems. But what makes me the most of it is Ciutadans' change of attitude, isn't it? We just felt the representative of Ciutadans reaching out to President Torra, to a president who has given him six months, and has given him six months Ciutadans, from here, gave him to the president: "You are an occupation, you must go from here, because you are not the president of the Generality of Catalonia. Six months later, they said they didn't call elections and "to President Torra we're holding his hand, because it's the... – no, they just did, they just stretched his hand," he's the president of the Generality of Catalonia. They're offering to work together to get out of this...! Maybe it's you who are going to read that opinion of the election board again that as much as he repeated to us that the rest of us didn't understand, because maybe he's forgotten what they are... or so... And on the issue of elections, I understand that there are no elections, because no one wants to fuck the electoral battling that you are getting and the better the deputies they have now than a hundred flying. But you have to hear, at least, that a little inconsistent, the change of attitude, turns out, huh? Now, welcome; I mean, we'd rather be able to work with the citizens of this time that I'm out of this legislature. I would only ask the People's Party a question: would the motions for resolutions that have been brought here present them to the Madrid Community Assembly? Yeah? Where have they dismantled all public salvation, would they present what they have presented here in salvation? I think it's a little thought we should do. And to the government, it is that we return; or so, the blame is on the others. I'd love for you to be responsible for what you've done. And it is that, for example, in the land of work, which we will vote for, we have already said, most of the things that have been put down are already being done, and you know it. Then they'll say he's a fan because the government of Catalonia has said so, but no, the teletreball plan is not going to do that. We've had a lot of disappointment... And speaking of traps, Mrs. Caula, by trapping your PR-2. Or, in a single PR they pose from criticism to the Government of the State for a harmful management of such, until the investigation of the corruption of the monarchy, until well done by the Generalitat in transparency, in a single PR. If there's a PR trap with a booby trap, that's it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But we don't fall in the trap. Thank you very much. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.17.0	We called for a vote. [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia against the maltreatment of the great people]] [[401-00038/12]] Before we proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions, I inform you that we will be reading an institutional declaration that has been approved by all parliamentary groups. And ask that in doing the reading Mr. David Pérez secretary facsimile. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, I'm sorry, the fourth secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.18.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia against the abuse of the great people. The Catalonian Parliament expresses the absolute rejection of the mistreatment of large people and wants to make public the will to work to eradicate it by means of prevention, awareness and actions against mistreatment. Education, age discrimination, is defined as a process of discrimination and stereotyping in a systematic way towards people of advanced age for the sole reason that they are valid, and this discrimination is the substrate of many situations of abuse to large people. The WHO estimates that one_of_each_is large people is ill-treated, and this xifra is underestimated, because only one_of_each_ twenty-four cases is reported. The silence of victims can be motivated by different causes: the contradictory feeling when the abuse is produced in a trusted environment, or by reprisals, by social ailment, by lack of consciousness or by a cognitive deterioration. Unfortunately, these facts have very little frequency and are present in different forms: economic maltreatment, physical maltreatment, psychological or emotional maltreatment, sexual maltreatment, neglect, abandonment and other violations of rights. The Catalonian Parliament is committed to: working together and co-ordinated with the specific entities involved in the fight against the maltreatment of the great people, and with the jointness of society, of the institutions, to prevent it; spreading the legal resources of prevention as a measure of protection of those people with the capacity to decide, as well as the measures of protection for those people who cannot decide for themselves; promoting awareness-raising, information and training activities that come to family members, institutions, professionals, large people and the rest of society; involving the communication media in the good way of the great people and in the dissemination of the maltreatment of the great people; commemorating the World Day of the Consciousness Presidency on the ill-treatment and protection of the good people; the prosecution and prosecution of the great people; the prosecution and prosecution of the great people. Palau del Parlament, July 3, 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.19.0	Thank you, Secretary Ribas. Let us now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. As you know, we will vote by order of entry into the register, and I am sure that for this session there have been eighty-eight Members and Members who have delegated their vote and twenty-three Members and Members who have joined the telematic vote, while twenty-two Members will vote face-to-face. We begin with the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let us begin with the vote on motion for resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 68 against, corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, and 25 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 4, with 64 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 64, with 64 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes in favour, against and 76 abstentions, corresponding to 53 witnesses and delegates and 23 telematics. Let us now proceed to the vote on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes in favour, against and 76 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 72, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against 68 abstentions, 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematic votes. Let's now vote for number eight. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes to 4, with 72 abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. Now we're voting at 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 68 against, 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, and no abstention. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 44 votes to 64, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 93 against and 36 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 21 votes in favour, against and 112 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No 15. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes in favour, against and 76 abstentions. And let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, 65 votes against and no abstentions. Now vote number two. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes in favour, 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, 57 against and 12 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. I would like to remind you that resolution No. 1 has been negotiated; therefore, we will vote on it at the end, with the rest. And we therefore vote on motion for resolution No 2, with the incorporated error correction affecting letter b. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 64. We are now voting on resolution No. 4, since the third resolution has also been negotiated and, therefore, we will vote on it at the end. We therefore vote for resolution No. 4 of the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted; that is 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, 64 against, 41 in favour and 23 in favour, and 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12, with the built-in error correction affecting paragraph 17. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 13. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 15. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The first of these has been negotiated; therefore, we will vote for it at the end too. We vote for number 2, with the built-in error correction, which carries by title "Public health and mental health. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. Motion for a resolution number 3 has also been dealt with; therefore, we will vote on it at the end. We're voting now at 4. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 85 votes to four, with 44 abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 7, with the built-in error correction affecting your apartment 1, letter c. The vote begins. It was adopted by 125 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. It was adopted by 76 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 125 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And we vote at 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 125 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution number 11. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We vote for resolution No. 12, with the built-in error correction, which affects your apartment 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 76 votes to 53 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, 36 nos and 21 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 13. The vote begins. It was adopted by 110 votes to 17, with 16 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. It was adopted by 72 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. Number 15, as it has been negotiated, we will also vote with the final package. We will now vote on number 16. The vote begins. It was approved by 64 votes to 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, against 69 abstentions. And now we vote on number 17. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting at 19. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number 20 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 64 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's vote first. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It was adopted by 89 votes to 44. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 81 votes to 4, with 48 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And we are voting now on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 17 votes in favour, 99 against and 17 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, 106 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution number 3_has been rejected... – I forgive – has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 85 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 48 votes in favour, 64 against, 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, and 21 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 13 votes in favour, 56 against and 64 abstentions, correspondents to 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematic votes. Let's now vote for number seven. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. We now vote on number 8, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour, 53 in favour and 23 in favour, 57 against and no abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 57 against and 64 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 103 against, correspondents to 80 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematic votes, and 18 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 11, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. It was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 120 against and 1 abstention. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 32, for 9 face-to-face, 23 telematics and 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 57 against and 72 abstentions, 49 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents. We are now voting on resolution No. 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 15 was adopted by 43 votes to 36, with 54 abstentions. We are now voting on the proposals for a resolution by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 57 votes to 76. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. Proposal number 3_has been negotiated. We will vote for it, therefore, in the end. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes to 68, for 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 for telematics. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 68 against, correspondents to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, and 8 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 64 against, 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, and 29 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 60 votes in favour, 64 against, correspondents to 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics, 8 abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 64, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 44 votes in favour, 63 against, correspondents to 40 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematic votes, and 25 abstentions. We're voting now at 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. I am sure that resolution 13 has been negotiated, so we will also vote on it at the end. Let's vote, then, on the 14th. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. And finally, in this bloc, we are voting on resolution No 15. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 64 against, 41 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, and 40 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 89 against, 66 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, and 32 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 61 votes to 68, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4, with the built-in error correction, which affects your apartment No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 64 against and 57 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5, with the built-in error correction, which affects your apartment No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 68, with 36 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously; that is 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 104 against, correspondents to 81 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematic votes, and no abstention. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 104, with no abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions; that is to say, unanimously. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 100 against, correspondents to 77 delegates, delegated and face-to-face votes, and 23 telematics, and 4 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 72, for 49 delegates and face-to-face and 23 for telematics, and 32 abstentions. We now vote for number 12, with the built-in error correction, which affects apartment number 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 76 votes to 53 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, against 57 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It was rejected by 33 votes to 64, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on number 14. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 64, with 40 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for a resolution No 15. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 15 was adopted by 99 votes in favour, 66 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, 44 votes against and no abstentions. We are now voting on the compromise resolution proposals. And, first of all, we vote on the compromise proposal signed for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress that replaces the motion for resolution number 13, joint motion for a resolution of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the motion for a resolution number 3 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This compromise resolution was adopted by 125 votes to four, with four abstentions. We are voting now on the compromise resolution proposal signed for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Socialist and Unit Parliamentary Group for Progress replacing the joint resolution proposal number 1, the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the resolution proposal number 1 of the Socialist and Unit Parliamentary Group for Progress. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously; 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We finally vote on the last compromise proposal, signed for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which replaces the joint motion for resolution No. 15 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the motions for resolution Nos. 3 and 13 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 112 votes in favour, 89 delegates and face-to-face and 23 telematics correspondents, against 21 abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote, there are no more... Yes, tell me, Mrs. Sirvent; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.20.0	Yes, President, it's that maybe with the telematic vote it's a little difficult to control whether the result of the vote is correct or not. I myself now, with a picture of the screen, respect our motion for a resolution number 11, which I see is that there are, in this case, 8 votes in favour, 97 in favour and 1 abstention, but I do not like the negotiations that we have made in relation to this motion for a resolution, and only with a sum of 8 I would say that the CUP and the People's Party voted in favour of this proposal, and I do not think that it is... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Number 11 of the CUP. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] On the screen say 8, 97 and 1. If you have voted yes Catalonia in Comú You can and we are already more than 8. I don't understand why the six are eight.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.21.0	The results have been the following...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.22.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.23.0	...beyond the vicissitudes and pacts that could have been made by parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.24.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.25.0	The results of the proposed resolution No 11, with the built-in error correction, of the CUP, were the following: 8 votes in favour, 120 against, adding 23 telematic votes, and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.26.0	And if Catalonia in Comú and we have voted in favour, how could it have gone 8?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.27.0	Somebody must have been wrong, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.28.0	Yeah, I got the picture, yeah. You've voted yes. Is that so? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sure. No, I don't understand. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.29.0	There are Members who have not voted, Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.30.0	So we have ourselves, pointing out the results of the vote. That's right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's why we've been the ones we haven't voted for. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So I am making a clear vote, and it is in the record that our four votes were in favour of this proposal, which we have precisely tabled ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-03-5602.31.0	All right. Mysteries solved. Thank you.
