ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.1.0	The session begins. Before, however, I would like to greet President Mas, President Rigol, President De Gispert and President Benach, who are accompanying us today to the battle of authorities. And to all of you, Members, Members, let them know that, in accordance with Rule 78.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and as we have explained to the Board of Spokesmen, the Plenary of Parliament is meeting in extraordinary session at the request of the President of the Generality. The first point of the order of the day, therefore, is... [[Modification of the agenda]] Yes, Mrs. Geis, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.2.0	Yeah, nice late, president. The Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, pursuant to Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, would call for an alteration of the agenda, because we have tabled a motion for a resolution jointly with the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Popular Unity Candidature, the CUP, and so we would ask that we may debate and vote in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.3.0	Yes; Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.4.0	To subscribe to the demand made by the Group of Joints for Catalonia and to manifest us in the same line. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.6.0	Yes; to oppose the amendment of the agenda requested, since those PRs have been invalidally processed, since we are outside the session and who should have admitted to processing those PRs was the Permanent Chamber. As the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen have done in no way at all, these PRs cannot be dealt with today. And we, in that sense, have already made reconsideration, and therefore, as has been made prior to the request of the spokesman for Junts per Catalunya, and also of the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana, in any case, these reconsiderations should be resolved. But I also tell you that, as we are out of session, the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons who resolve these reviews will have to meet in session, and if not, the Permanent Chamber must meet. And as a member of the Permanent Chamber, I refuse to allow the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to usurp the functions that our...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.7.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.8.0	... Regulation grants to the Permanent Chamber. This is a new blow from the Bureau and the President of Parliament, who has already been warned on six occasions by the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.9.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.10.0	...Constitutional Court, for violating the rights of deputies. I would like to inform you that, if you do not give [[remorse of the voice]] Place...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.11.0	Quiet, and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.12.0	...to what we are now asking, we are going to file a unconstitutional appeal..., an amparo appeal for violation of our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.13.0	All right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.14.0	We're in the same frame [[applause]] on 6 and 7 September 2017, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.15.0	Very well; thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Lady Sirvent... [[The applause continues. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.16.0	President, thank you. To ask also for an alteration of the order of the day and ask for the inclusion in the debate of the Motion for a resolution presented for our group, and join us in the previous petitions of alteration of the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] And Lord Sirvent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.18.0	Yes, thank you, President. To adhere to the request of extension of the order of the day requested by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana, and also Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.19.0	Thank you. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.20.0	Thank you, President. Without precluding the fact that we were not in favour of including motions for resolutions in the debate at this plenary session, we have also finally tabled a motion for a resolution, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 83.3, we would ask that it be included in the agenda. But also, in the face of the doubts raised, we ask that these be resolved before proceeding with the most closely related procedure with all these matters.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.21.0	All right. They've asked... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.22.0	Yes, thank you, President. To adhere also to the request of extension of the order of the day requested for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.23.0	Thank you. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez and Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia and ma'am Rodriguez, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.24.0	Yes; to adhere also to the request made for the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.25.0	Thank you. Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.26.0	Yes; we will not adhere to the requests for extension of the order of the day that have been made, but we will do a new request for extension of the order of the day, concretely to process the Law Proposition for the elimination of prefabricated modules of the public educational centers of Catalonia, the processing of which has been completed and is number 38. We would like to ask whether any other donor parliamentary groups support this initiative. [[Widow's remorse. Gemma Geis and Carreras ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.27.0	Mrs. Geis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.28.0	We do not support the proposal made for the People's Party Group and we do support the alteration presented by commons and the Socialist Party. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.29.0	All right. Mr. Rodr... [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.30.0	Well, as we have already stated, we are not joining the..., come on, we are directly opposed to the request to include some motions for resolutions that we believe have not been properly accepted. And we join the proposal of the People's Party, as it is an initiative that has gone through all the procedures. And we would also ask to add to the agenda the proposed law on accessibility and security in parks and children's areas. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.31.0	All right. As seven amendments to the agenda have been tabled and, at the same time, a review has been made of the debate and the voting on these motions for resolutions, which refers to this change to the agenda, we shall now proceed with the debate, with the appearance of the President of the Generality and, once the debate corresponding to this appearance has ended, we shall meet the Bureau to determine whether this review is being carried out... and then we shall vote on the seven amendments to the order of the day which have been requested. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality with the motivation of the aggression to the Autonomous State of Catalonia and the Catalan institutions]] [[350-00012/12]] Therefore, now the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.32.0	President... President Mas, President Rigol, President De Gispert, President Benach, very late to everyone, deputies and deputies, vice-president, advisers and advisers ; good late also to which you attended the plenary. This extraordinary plethora should never have been celebrated; in fact, it is absolutely impossible to imagine that, in the wake of democracy around us, it is intended to violate the sovereignty of a parliament, supplant the rules that the king rules and disable the president of the country in order to have defended some fundamental rights. This can only go to the Spanish State. I have often repeated that the first republican institution is the popular will, and this Ple pulls right here. We are living a new attempt to alter the popular will of the Catalans, a new moment in democracy, in fact a moment of state against the institutions of our country. There are people who think that when they don't like a president, a government or a parliament, they don't have to respect the limit to destroy it. But the fundamental principle of democracy, without which it would not exist, is respect for popular will. There is no democracy without this. The dictatorships are full of laws, courts and tribunals that make them complete, and political juntas that give the appearance of neutrality. And that doesn't make them a democracy. There is a primordial, primordial aspect that makes a state a democracy, and it is this: respect for popular will and the ability to adapt laws and institutions to this will, if expressed in little and democratic terms. Being a Democrat is not defending a constitution or a few laws. To be democratic it is necessary to respect and defend the will of the majority of the citizenry. And it is to respect it when it wants to define the future policy of the country or when it hears a president. There is no democracy without this respect and without its defence, and there is no democracy without respect for sovereignty. When a mature and civic society speaks, decides and votes, it deserves all the respect of the institutions, wherever they are. The decisions of a democratic parliament must be respected; I will always do so. And it is at times like the present that this sovereignty and the institutions that represent it can be strengthened. This is exactly the question you have in front of you. This is today the question that all Members of this House have to answer: are they willing to respect the democratic will and the sovereignty of Parliament or are they willing to accept the authoritarian alteration that they want to make a political organ like this group of mayors of Madrid that is called the Central Electoral Board? Who will you defend today? What will they defend? The policy of repression and the blockade or democratic policy that respects the decision of the citizenry through its representatives? Will they accept the rights that one of the most prominent repressive organs in the Spanish State is looking for? Is that how we need to hear the dialog they say plant some? We can discuss the legal and technical aspects of this aberration at work for the electoral board, which has already ousted all democratic principles and fundamental rights during the electoral periods, acting on its part and usurping functions that surround the courts. And we will, of course we will; but there is a pre-eminent question to legal questions, which is the principle and democratic feeling of this Parliament. I can imagine what they will do and what some of the parties present here today will say, but I call them directly to the Members of the House, to each of the Members and Members of this House, and who vote in conscience. Being in these seats that you occupy, in your seats, is an immense responsibility that we each have with the citizens who voted for us and with the sobriety of this chamber. Because I'm the crucibles of the sobriety of Catalonia. And they do not ask you for personal adherence; neither to me, nor to my presidency, nor to my politics, nor to the action of government. You are asked for a reflection on whether this action that was produced yesterday by the Central Electoral Board against a deputy of this chamber considers it legitimate and that I did not deserve a total rebuff. Today I am, but tomorrow I can be any one of you. And it is a completely irregular action, which has already been denounced for half of the members of the electoral board who attended the deliberation. While there is an open judicial process – equally irregular and out of all democratic sense – that has just to pronounce on my disqualification – let's remember – there is an electoral administration body that has wanted to intervene in this appeal and usurp the court's functions to speed up the application of what is not yet a firm feeling. And that's very hard for me to pass in a state that wants to be recognized as a democratic state. And if it does, it would be very hard for a parliament like this to tolerate it as if nothing happened. We cannot accept these actions without democratic legitimacy. If we let ourselves do this today, we won't have anything left. Unfortunately, since the 30th generation of 2018 we have seen how the Spanish courts interfere in the sovereignty of this Parliament. And now that the same situation is in Europe, we have seen how the solutions, the judgments of the courts, differ absolutely radically. So, Members of this Parliament, the time has come to plant us, to say enough about the political degradation of this Parliament, to defend the sobriety of the chamber and the inviolability of all its members. As I said, now is the time to strengthen institutions, and that means defending sovereignty, loyalty to popular will and, ultimately, the indestructible compromise with democracy. There are no more courts and assemblies that want to do politics, and there are no more policies and parties that use justice to achieve those objectives that have not been able to achieve with the word, with the argument or with the vote. I have told them on many occasions: I do not have a word, a democratic struggle, a vote, a popular will. While the independenceists were a minority in this country, we respected that we could not implement our project and we aspired to be more to last it to term. It can always respect democracy, and it's worth respecting when it's won and when it's lost. If they do not like the government, the president or the composition of Parliament, win in the polls, convince more people to vote, present motion of censure; but they do not make use of tools that are external to politics, do not force laws or their interpretation, do not seek straight, because what they get is every time they get less votes and every time they distance themselves more from the people. I say to this Parliament, it was this chamber that invested me as president, and I only recognize this chamber's ability to withdraw my confidence. A few weeks ago, some parties tried to show that I had less confidence now that when I was invested, in May 2018, and they were surprised that the motion of censure they were presenting was rejected by more votes than any other motion of censure in this chamber. But it's obvious that they didn't have enough, they didn't have the answers of the democratic representatives, they wanted to go looking for that political and political body that they always had to put to the card: the Central Electoral Board. In fact, we are talking about the same organization that some parties went to look for when they wanted to get a favorable result against the banner that hangs from the balcony of the Palau de la Generalitat, a banner that demanded something as simple and as important as the same thing that the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, Nobel Prizes of the Pau, hundreds of deputies and senators from various countries around us, international human rights entities..., that is, the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. To ask this, to ask for the most basic, an election board chosen by parties and for a draw pretends to disable me. I will not allow it, if that is what this Parliament decides. Disobedience before attacks on democracy, before injustices and abuses, is not just a right, but an obligation of any ruler and of any citizen, and I add that it must be a duty for any president of a country. He said that I dec to the Parliament as the representation of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. If this chamber rejects the resolution of the election board and does not apply my dismissal, I will continue to be president of Catalonia and deputy. If you accept it, I will not be able to oppose Parliament's decision. I've always said that, and I don't think I'm changing my mind now that it's happened after it was announced. I don't have any personal interest in clinging to my head, those who know me already know that's right. I didn't agree to be president to occupy any power space. "To serve the common when the hour above is law of all democracy," said the intellectual and political republic Lluís Nicolau d'Olwer. Serve the common, the general, the community, your country; with uncertainties and mistakes. I have tried to serve this ideal faithfully and honestly beyond all these months. In my own way of hearing politics, the first thing in our public life is to follow with joy ethical values, commitments that connect you with citizenship and that can defend with determination and firmness. In my case, I have found these values in the defence of republicanism, democratic radicalism, Europeanism and fundamental rights. I've been trying not to turn away from one of the millimetres and be consistent with it. That's why I agreed to be president, to help at a very difficult time in the advent to the republic that was meant to culminate. And that's perhaps why, from the very beginning, I've been an object to the crackdown; if I wanted to fall to the ground, to the sea and to the air. And precisely, for everything that has happened, and especially today, I make myself available to this Parliament to continue moving forward if it is willing not to settle before repression. I also think this is an important moment for certain games that say they want to start a new course in relations between Catalonia and Spain. They have today a golden opportunity to prove whether this is an honest and sincere proposal, based on democratic principles, or whether it is another deception, a new parany to entertain us from our freedom will. Now that we want to set up a government in Madrid setting up a dialogue on the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, now it is time to know whether political repression is over and whether it is rejected and condemned. Why, if the parties that want to form government in Madrid continue to tolerate and allow political persecution through the organs of the State, how can we trust it? Can a dialog be established and, at times, disable the contact? How could a government dialogue in function, then? And don't tell me now that this is a problem with the Spanish right. We know perfectly well that there is a state that has not incorporated democracy into the spring of the bone; we know that. We know that there are powers of the State that have not been made clear of the previous regime and that have continued to apply the sacred criteria of the country unit in terms of democratic criteria and European institutional standards. We know that no one has ever set up a real democratic regeneration project in Spain, which would require a dry size in certain organisms, equipment and institutions of the State. But it is not a matter of a deep state; it is a matter of the sentient State, from the king to the Central Electoral Board, passing through the Supreme Court or the Spanish Government, which has incomplete European resolutions and which resorts to the declarations of this Parliament on the right of self-determination. Not much longer than two years ago, the traditional parties, the pillars of the Spanish political system, approved that coup d'état stripped of constitutional article to remove a president, the very honorable President Puigdemont, and a whole government, to dissolve this legitimate and democratic Parliament. Do not go to the time of white and black or of analog color to find a blatant example of authoritarianism in Spain. Now they want to do the same again, they want to remove a president of the Generality, this time without concealing with a vote in the Senate; they do it directly in a dispatch, without manners or scruples. Members and Members, we have to say, we have to stop this process of accelerated degradation of democracy and institutions. We have already lived as judicial bodies imposing parliamentary suspensions, we have seen this same electoral board trying to prevent President Puigdemont and the Councillors Comín and Ponsati from being candidates for the European Parliament. It had to be corrected, and now the first two are MEPs, with their rights recognised for European justice. And this is the same way we have to go about everything. Justice, which is denied to the independence of Spain, we are going to look for Europe. It'll also be like this in this case that's up to me. I do not trust the result that I can have the appeal for the Spanish courts, but we will come to the end to defend that we are right and that we cannot disqualify a policy for defending freedom of expression. It can't be if we're in a democracy, of course. And Europe sends us clear messages demanding that the Spanish State be a democracy. As I announced yesterday, my lawyers will present their resources to put an end to this legal and political aberration. I won't give up my defence right, we'll take this case as far as we can and we won't get tired of explaining our reason to everyone who wants to listen to us. They don't put up with threats or persecution. To be free we have to act freely, and the first step is not to take for the consequences of our actions if we make them conscious. We are not here to spend time, but to defend our democratic convictions, with whatever sacrifices we may make. But today it is the Parliament that needs to speak clearly about this new attempt to make a president by irregular procedures. It is not a right problem, we are faced with a difficult political problem. Let us play whether this Parliament is going to rise or not; if we allow decisions to be taken in this way, as the election board does. And we have to prove that it's a parliament and not an autonomous body with no political value. Rosa Luxemburg said that "without general elections, without press freedom, without freedom of expression and assembly, without the struggle for freedom of opinion, life in all public institutions is extinguished, it is converted into a caricature of itself, in which only bureaucracy remains as an active element. We don't allow it. We cannot continue to accept these impositions. The way is to plant us. And it is also in the same meeting that it served to try to disqualify me from the election board disqualifying Vice President Oriol Junqueras from his condition as a European MP. It is no longer that they do not respect Spanish laws, it is that they no longer respect the decisions of the European courts. Spain's justice alone can do one thing in the case of MEPs who were prevented from taking credit: to abide by the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and to release Vice-President Junqueras, to declare the nullity of a judgment and of a judgment which should not have been produced. The European judgments must be completed and respected, and that is why they have presented the prejudicial questions, and they are prejudicial – the name indicates – because they must be resolved before the trial is over. This right was violated by political prisoners who were tried against the Supreme, and it was also violated by me, at my oral hearing in the High Court of Justice, where a fully partisan and politicized court did not admit a petition that is a right that I had as accused. The nullity of Spanish justice is already a scandal on a European scale, and the concern is every time more for the Member States of the Union. Even though the states maintain public discretion, the image of Spain is today on the ground; neither fifty make-uptons would hide the true face of the Spanish repression against independence, and the make-up was undone every time faster. Today we felt that the president in office, Pedro Sánchez, had the Congress leave the judicial system behind. Magnificent; so today's plenary and the vote that we will take will be proof. President Sánchez said that the dialogue had to be done within the constitutional framework; so it turns out that it is under this very framework that I am called upon to disqualify myself and leave the decisions of this Parliament without effect. And we don't have to confuse a legal security mark when a dialog is set with a mark that we all know that plays in favor of one of the parts. The constitutional mark is a gabia for Catalans, a gabia for our decision-making capacity. I want to place all the actors of independence to participate in a space where we can debate what and on what conditions the president and the government of Catalonia can negotiate with the Spanish government. I need to act with a strategic unit and not let you pay for the division land. So, in the same way, they demand that the driving group reconvene the Assembly of Elected Carrecs to address together the response of independence to this new action. To vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled today by the three independent groups of the House is not to vote in favour of Quim Torra: it is to vote in favour of the Catalan institutions, of the sovereignty of Parliament, of respecting the popular will and of rejecting the judiciary. We'll see you in your votes, ladies, because today we pass the elbow test. All of Europe is looking at us to see if we are truly democrats and worthy to tell us Europeans, or if we are not more than that the Central Electoral Board wants us to follow. Today it is relevant to quote one of the great policies that Europe has given, Havel: "Human rights must advance state rights. The decision, deputies and deputies, is at your hands. Pedro said that "the fight is now, or there is not. To defend democracy, sometimes, we must plant ourselves to advance. Plant them and move on. It's in our hands. Thank you very much, very late. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.33.0	Thank you... There's the word now, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Lorena Roldán. Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.34.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.35.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.36.0	Throughout their lives, the public has been warned that they cannot express either rejection or applause to speakers. We therefore ask the President to warn the public that these rules must be complied with. Or does it depend on who is applauded not cut to the public...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.37.0	It's clear, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.38.0	...and it depends on who's applauding yes? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.39.0	It's clear. Mrs. Roldán, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.40.0	Yes; thank you, President. Afternoon, Members, Members; Afternoon, very honourable former President, Mr Torra. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Look, I confess to you, I don't know if why we are on these dates so, pointed out, although you don't respect them, but I did come with some hope; hope that you would come here today to show a minimum of respect for this chamber, which is the chamber that represents all Catalans; hope that you would today call elections and leave this circus and this theater that you have been representing in this chamber for a very long time, for too long now, Mr Torra. But no, no, you've come here today to do the usual, you've come here to hold on to a position that you should never have held and, moreover, it's always been great for you, Mr. Torra, because I think everyone reminds you yourself that you didn't come here to manage an autonomous community. For I do not know what the functions of a President of the Generalitat are, because they are none other than those of working and safeguarding the interests, rights and freedoms of all Catalans; not only on one side, Mr Torra, not only of yours, Mr Torra, of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] And what did you come here for today? I wonder. What have you come here to do? Another political rally of yours? Have you come here again to release your separatist mantras? Well, listen, if you want to do a political rally, perfect, but don't do it here, do it at your party headquarters, don't do it using the house of all Catalans. It's just that this place is sacred. It's just that you guys keep muttering this institution. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is that you accuse others of discrediting the Catalan institutions, when it is you, day after day, day after day, who trample these institutions. That's it! Another political rally here today, another rally. You respect absolutely nothing. They fill their mouths talking about rights, family and work conciliation, and it turns out that you do not even respect the rights of the workers of this Parliament, who have had to come here for their desire [[applause and voice remorse]] , by his
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.41.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.42.0	...because it seems to you..., parliamentary workers, journalists... because you have not distinguished for a long time what is yours from what is of all Catalans, you have believed for thirty years that you are the owners of Catalonia. And then they do and they undo, and they open this Parliament when they want, they close it when they want, they present what they want, they trample the rights, they skip the rules..., whatever it takes. You have long believed in the owners of Catalonia. But they're not, Mr. Torra, and it's time for someone to tell his face, and it's gonna be us. It's good to talk on behalf of all of Catalonia, it's good to ignore more than half of Catalans, it's good to come here and believe you can do absolutely everything you want, another political rally. Listen, really, if you want to do rallies, I tell you: go to the headquarters of your party. And, if you want to hang ties and banners and posters of separatist candidates, hang them on the balcony of your home, but not on the balcony of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] It's all right, Mr. Torra – it's all right. You're back on your feet. This is an infamy, what you're doing here today. They're back on their feet. The Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen who have convened today were ashamed because we are outside the session and the competent body is the Permanent Chamber. Not because I say it, not because I say it Citizens: because it is so established in the Rules, that thing that you do not know, because, of course, as you do not use it, you use it as you see it... That's all right. What is this, the continuation of September 6 and 7? What is this, a new blow? Do you, once again, walk back, trampling on the rights of all Catalans? That's all right, really. Look, I insist, I insist that this is the same thing that you did here on September 6th and 7th. Of course they do not disappoint anyone: you came here saying that what you were going to do was continue with the coup, and the purposes of 2019 have fulfilled them perfectly – perfectly, Mr.Torra. But it has already reached the end of the road. It is good enough to break democratic rules. It's good enough to run over, it's good enough to degrade the institutions. There is here a call, outside, on the street, of people who have summoned you yourselves. Hey, there was a tweet – which I have here because it seems incredible to me – from Junts per Catalunya making a call to mobilization for you to come here, to what? , to occupy the Parliament? , again to occupy the Parliament? That we're going to have to be escorted, like we're going out on 6th and 7th, Mr. Torra? Can't you see it can't be? Yesterday, to the ANC, who summoned her to that demonstration of Sant Jaume Square? Who called the ANC? Who let the ANC enter the Palau de la Generalitat to go there to remove the flag, who? [[Greetings.]] That they have keys? I don't know... that's open, that, for anyone? I now, when this plenary is over, if I go there to the Palau de la Generalitat, will you let me go in there like Peter for my house and take what I don't like and take away the flags that I don't like? Is that it, Mr. Torra? Or is it that again, you, using the institutions of Catalonia, as if they were yours alone? You don't see that? You are borrowing in the Palau of the Generalitat, because you were chosen to be the President of the Generalitat. And you know what? That it hasn't been since yesterday. Not because I say it. [[applause]] : because it is said by the Central Electoral Board, as a result of a judicial resolution. It's not that hard. How much longer are you going to prolong this agony, Mr. Torra? How much more? Because this is an agony for all Catalans, who see how you do not rule and do nothing at all, who are ashamed that this Parliament has opened up for this today. They don't open it to talk about increasing child poverty, no. They don't open it to talk, for example, about the dramatic lists we have in health care, no. They don't open it to talk about dependency, no. They open it up to talk about all you're interested in, your privileges, and continue to feed the process and the modus vivendi. It's all right – it's all right. You no longer represent anyone, Mr. Torra. Assume it—assume it—you are no longer the president of the Generalitat, you are not. And I insist that you don't come here to talk about social problems, you come here to talk about your book, about yours, about what interests you; nothing more. Look, really, I don't know what example you're setting for the rest of Catalan society, for the rest of elected offices, but as you yourself don't give it, because, obviously, justice has already taken care of it. In this case, the Central Electoral Board; the Central Electoral Board, which pronounces on a judicial resolution, a sentence that condemns you and that disqualifies you from being a deputy, disqualifies you from being a public office. I think this is understood by anyone. You jumped the JEC..., well, "you jumped the JEC no, you threw a pulse, let's say, to the Central Electoral Board, with your banner, your link, your propaganda there, using public buildings as if they were the banner of separatism. When from this bench my colleagues and I warned you that this could be a crime of disobedience, it got cocky, as you like it, didn't it? Yes, yes, yes, that he was not going to obey either the Central Electoral Board, or the LOREG, or anything at all. You, even, then went to mock yourself, once the trial has already arrived, there to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, with little joke of bad taste included. And now it turns out you're surprised at the conviction and its consequences, that you yourself have taken out that disobedience, that you yourself went there to plead guilty. What is this now of inventing evil conspiracy against you of justice? Hey, so brave it was to disobey, so brave it has to be now to take on the consequences. [[Greetings.]] It's just, if you take out so much chest... You said in your speech..., you said: « Today I am, but it can be any one of you, can't it? It's me, but tomorrow it can be any one of you. Well, I'll tell him no. Do you know why? – Do you know why? Because you won't see me disobeying either the Electoral Board, the prosecution, or the courts. Neither I nor any of my colleagues. [[Greetings.]] No! No! That you do not see that you are an elected office and have the duty to set an example, and besides that it is not an elected office any, it is not a deputy any, you are the president of the Generalitat. And what the Central Electoral Board told you yesterday is no more or less... [[Funnel veils]] – until yesterday – which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.43.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.44.0	...the election board told him, no more or less [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.45.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.46.0	I know it's very graceful to you, because you, the truth is that the pitching that you bring... Look, what the Central Electoral Board told you yesterday is, no more or less, that you, no longer because you are disabled – which also – but because you have committed a crime against the public administration, no longer meets the requirements for being a Member of this Parliament, no longer meets them. Not on the whim of the electoral board; it is that this is resolving about his elected office. Elected office, election board. I say this because some, as they are here, then, questioning the competence of the electoral board..., I don't think it's necessary to be a lynx either. We talk about the Electoral Regime Act, an elected office, and therefore resolves the electoral board [[applause]] , as its name indicates, which is that it is of drawer – it is of drawer. It's drawer. Look, I think the Catalans have had enough. Enough, already, Catalans, to endure this black stage of the process, which has brought us nothing. And I'm going to use this last minute to refer to the Socialist Party, which was one too. [[remorse of the voice]] of which this electoral board, that resolution of the electoral board, was in question. Mr. Iceta, do you really believe that with these people you can form a government, you can depend on the future of the Spaniards of these gentlemen, of these gentlemen who challenge the electoral board, who challenge the Supreme Court, who challenge the Constitution, who dedicate themselves to coming here to threaten the rule of law? Do you really think this is not going to have consequences? Stop giving wings to independence, which then happens. All right, have some consideration for the Catalan constitutionalists as well. I don't know, I just think it's clear that with these people, Mr. Iceta, you can't even go around the corner. And we ask them from here to think back – to think back –, not to say those..., not to assume the theses of separatism, speaking today even and questioning the Central Electoral Board. But it is that if this is a reform of the Socialist Party, of Zapatero, that this is a reform of you! How do they question her now? It's good enough to give wings to independence. I'm done with a sentence... and, look, Mr. Torra, come back to reality. You are not a Member, you are not a President, and it is time for the Catalans to leave this black stage behind and we can decide our future in elections. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.47.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.48.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, this House has convened with urgency, at his request, in order to compare before the chamber, it was supposed – as it has been – to fix its position before the resolution of the Central Electoral Board, known only a short time ago. Certainly, a resolution that has not yet been officially communicated; therefore, those who request its immediate application make a first-time error as well. [[Greetings.]] But I will tell you that I was surprised by the quickness of what I wanted to discuss in the chamber an uncommunicated resolution. Now, it surprised me more when the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia was produced, which coincided with the celebration of a ple, and that no one raised a debate on that question. Perhaps it is that it is considered that the decision of the electoral board is more important than of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which I do not share. In any case, the election of political moments is always relevant, and it seems to us – and more so, some words we have just heard – that nothing about what is happening these days is alien to the investment debate that began this morning at the Congress of Deputies. In any case, we have listened to it, as always, with attention and respect, and we want to share with the rest of the groups and with Catalan society our position on the subject that brought us here today. And I will say this from the very beginning, and so does the motion for a resolution that we are proposing: in our opinion, its eventual disqualification can only be derived from a firm court ruling, and not from an agreement of the Central Electoral Board. That's what the Statute says, that's what the Law of the Presidency and the Government says, that's what the House Rules say. It's our opinion, the opinion of a lot of people. Catalan newspaper editorials clearly say so. What's going on is that we would want to, surely with a hard effort and that some of us cannot understand, to separate the president's presidency. Because we want to come here today in defence of the institutions, not of the concrete management, in this case yours, which we do not share, but of the institutions. Because, as you said, today the president is you, but before they were others and in the future they will still be others. And our Statute sets some conditions for disqualification. And it does so precisely because the Constitution allows it. Those who like the Constitution so much, not to reach 155, is 148.1.1; there you will find that the autonomous communities have the right to legislate on the status of their presidents and their deputies. In addition, the Statute says, the Law of the Presidency and the Government and the Rules of Parliament. Therefore, in our motion for a resolution, we ask that Parliament also appeal, in defence of the Catalan institutions. Therefore, if the proof of the quota is the defense of the institutions, I believe that many pass it. I therefore trust your support for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group and Units per Avançar. It is true that it is a resolution that does not speak of self-determination, it is true that it does not speak of other legitimate questions also in a debate but that they do not have to see with what we believe is the center of the discussion that should bring us here today: how to defend better Catalan institutions? I'll tell them. The best way is to defend the law, always. And when it is considered that our rights or our institutions are not respected, demand the compliment of the right in which they are founded. We believe, and say so with all due respect, that the Central Electoral Board had to inhibit, as did the Barcelona Provincial Electoral Board, among other things, because this issue was already being brought to justice, because there has already been a judgment in the first instance pending appeals before the Supreme Court, which is ultimately what we will decide in our criteria. It is true that the judgment that was given to you by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia is very unequivocal; the very development of the court left little room for doubt: you decided that you did not respect a decision of the electoral board on the display of party symbols in public buildings, in institutional buildings. We already told him that it was a big mistake; we warned him about it. But, in any case, as ours is a system of guarantees, until the judicial process is completed, no consequences can be established before the hour. We believe, President, that what you should do – and we respect it – is to defend yourself legally, to defend what you consider to be your right, and, in turn, not to use a decision – which, in no case is final, because it can always be object of appeal – to generate an additional conflict. But it's true, you've been talking about confrontation and polarization for quite some time now, and you may also see in this fact that it happened, so there's a reason for confrontation. We have always respected the law in force, we have respected the Constitution, the Statute, the judicial decisions and we defend the state of law with separation of powers, and we have respected the judgments: those of the courts here and of the European courts, which actually have to be respected, because they are not foreign courts, they are courts that also seize our rights and freedoms. And, therefore, here I think we also pass, if this was a proof, that of the elbow. What we do say is that you are the President of the Generality, the most ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia, and that we should try among all, but you are the first, to allow this return from politics and dialogue. We believe that we can give an opportunity, political themes solve 'politically. How's that? Respecting the law, and therefore not transgressing it, and promoting political, democratic and dialogue debate. And, listen to me, before I talked about the investment debate: what has been playing at these times in the Congress of Deputies is the possibility or not that a stage presided over for the dialogue will be opened. I said the program signed between the Socialist Party and the companies of Unidades Podemos and En Comú Podemos; I said the agreement signed between the PSOE and the Basque Nationalist Party, and I said, more specifically, the agreement signed between the PSOE, the PSC and the Republican Left of Catalonia. Regarding – and someone asked – all positions of respect. Here they can say: "I don't trust him. There's all the right. But my question is the following: because of a mistrust, which can have deep pitfalls and justified motives, do we have to deny ourselves the opportunity to take advantage of this new opportunity? Is everything that's happened now preventing us from taking advantage of the present to try to improve the future? This is the question that I think is these days on the table. And I say this with respect for all positions, but – they will understand this – with special respect for the position of the people of the Republican Left of Catalonia, who, with the situation, yes, exceptional that we live, made a bet not to prevent the creation of a government that is willing to open this way. We, not to say, are absolutely decided on this path. Dialeg, negotiation, pact; Dialeg Catalunya endins, dialog between institutions, dialog in the mark of the law and, if necessary, to change it, that for this there are mechanisms and majorities established that allow to change the laws. A dialect, not an imposition; a covenant, yes, transactional, that will not be for one or the other, because we want to reach this agreement. And so, whether you like it or not, we have a split society around this. Our shared obligation to each other, to all, is to find a land of contrast, which will probably not satisfy one hundred per cent to no one, but which can reasonably be satisfactory for a large majority. That's what we want. Let's not let passions blind us, let's not let the pain – of one or the other – prevent us from making the most appropriate decisions, let's not let me pass on to us preventing us from acting on the present. And to you, Mr President, and from respect, I allow myself – in this case jugo, it seems to me, with advantage – recommend something that you have already announced you will do, and it is to appeal this decision, both the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the decision of the Central Electoral Board; in this case, moreover, therefore, logically, calling for precautionary measures to prevent what could be a violation of rights that could not be repaired further. Do it, it's worth it; it's your obligation as president, because in this case you are not defending the current president, but the presidency of the Generality. And now we've all returned to the defense of the State, so, to defend the State, to defend self-government, to defend our institutions, let's go together. We disagree with you in many things – your exercise of the presidency, your political orientation – but we reiterate your respect for the institution that you in these moments embody. That we're all up to the moment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.50.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, very honorable president. What we saw yesterday and what we saw was a legal aberration and a disarray that was against, we have already said, Catalonia's self-government, as well as the right-wing state and the government of change that is about to see the light in the State. President, you know that I have on some occasions said that you will probably be remembered as the worst president of the Generality, you know, but I think that today and now we're not talking about this, it's not about this, today. I think there are things that are... that are for people, that are for you and me, and they're our principles, it's democracy, they're our institutions, and it's the state of law. And that's why today, like Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, we give yes to the Catalan institutions and yes to self-government. And, besides, we think that this is a mandate that is independent of ideologies and that it doesn't matter whether you're independent or you're not independent. If Catalonia is today a country that is open to the world, free, dynamic, modern, it is for all the people who preceded us, for our opinions and our avies, for their conquests, and, therefore, we cannot remain impassable before the attacks that are patenting our institutions. Because we see what has happened: yesterday we know, from the view that it now appears that it is the new spokesman of the most reactionary judiciary, of Mr. Pablo Casado, that I no longer know whether you are the president of the People's Party or are the spokesman of the Central Electoral Board, an administered organ, that by petition..., we know yesterday that, at the request of the People's Party, of Citizens and of Vox, it had been disabled to you without a firm feeling, using in addition a reform of the LOREG that was aimed at preventing public charges from being convicted of terrorism and corruption – terrorism and corruption – continuing to exercise, when you, in addition, what was done to put down a banner. So, a full-fledged disbandment. And, moreover, they did so with a strong internal division– 7 votes in favour, 6 against–, accelerating the terms because they passed before the investiture and, moreover, making an absolutely restrictive interpretation of the fundamental right of political participation, and, moreover, also, obeying the Statute of Catalonia and the Rules of this Parliament. Therefore, it is not simply a matter of different interpretations of the law, but what we believe is that it is a matter of a measure which the Spanish drafts want to make during this legislature, that it is a judicial and administrative war against self-government and against the government of progressive coalition, to paralyze it, to erode it and also to eliminate it in a preventive way. They're trying to win the courts where they won't win the ballots and, moreover, they want to impose political theses through the failure of the separation of powers, because the judiciary is going beyond limits, with the support and justification of the media and the economic powers, lawfare says in English, and what I mean is that the Spanish Drets are neither only original nor creative; it's so important..., what we've seen all this time in many countries around the world, mainly in Llatinoamerica: we've seen in Brazil from Lula; we've seen Cristina, in Argentina; we've seen with Evo Morales, in Bolivia. And, therefore, what they are doing is denying democracy, popular sovereignty, and the return of authoritarianism, which we already thought was extinct in the 21st century. Therefore, I insist, it is not a strict application of the law to do justice, but an anti-legal and anti-democratic barbarity. What they're doing is twisting the laws to refocus and also trying to derail the investiture. It is, therefore, intended to introduce high doses of exceptionality in order to fall governments voluntarily. And we see as a pact between differences, a pact between the Socialist Party, the United We can, in Comú Podemos, Esquerra, the BNG, Bildu, the PNV and others, which is betting for the dialog to resolve the political conflict that we are experiencing, is the alibi, is the excuse of the Spanish Drets to not respect democracy. And we believe that, before this attack on democracy, what it is all about is to protect it from all the Democrats in Catalonia and Spain. And we also believe that, before this attack on justice, it is a matter of protecting the state of law with a view to Europe, that we are convinced that once again it will give a buffeted sound to the most reactionary sector of the Spanish judiciary. Because, in addition, we think who is behind this time: so the elites who want to rule without running for election, the enemies of the self-government and the progressive coalition government; the three parties of Spanish dreets – the People's Party, Citizens and Vox – more today totally indistinguishable, that do not accept the result of the ballot box. And I think it's no longer a matter of hiding the politics behind the robes, which is what they've been doing so far, but they've turned themselves over to the most reactionary wing of the judiciary and directly deny the politics, the dialect and the word. And, in the background, this is also not new: they are the same people who have tried the conflict between Catalonia and Spain and, moreover, they systematically deny that there is a horizon of hope and future in the Government of the State, a government that should be progressive and multi-national; they are the same people, moreover, that throughout the history of Spain they have been an authentic llast, they are the dead weight of the history of the country. Before they came to Catalonia, to Euskadi, « let the communists come, let them see, but today, moreover, is that the list is already every time more endless: the women, the homosexuals, Navarre, the socialists, Galicia, Europe, even Teruel has become a threat [[applause]] for the unit of Spain; and in its Spain, most of us are anti-Spain. So that vagrant accepting that the future of this country will only be built from the dialog, plurality and democracy. We see, moreover, how his strategy is the usual one, which is the one of those who do not want to convince, but what they want is victory. His strategy is that of por. And I think they have it for democracy, because they don't have another project that doesn't go against it anymore. But we have good news – good news for us and bad news for them – and it is that hope is beginning to move forward before their hatred; there is a government that is working, that is trying to push forward, to the State, that wants to fight against precariousness, against inequality; that will work for the just ecological transition, for feminism, for progressive income policies, to give support to the social economy, for the right to housing, also to give support to the peppers, against corruption, and that, moreover, it has a plan for the dialogue and to advance in democracy, and therefore I believe that it is the best government that could have Catalonia from the summer. Look, they say earthquakes can't be avoided and too often they can't predict, and so what you need to do is plan and think about two concepts that are basic: one is resistance and the other is ductility. So we think that during this parliamentary term, Mr. Arrimadas, Mr. Married and Mr. Abascal, as they have done so far with Catalonia, will also try to shake us every day like a terratromol, and for this reason we have to tend..., and we have to prepare ourselves, we have to keep our heads cool to think of these two concepts, which I think will come very well to the State and come very well to Catalonia: resistance and ductility. And, besides, we also have to protect ourselves from those who want to keep their privileges exclusively. And, of course, what was missing was the Episcopal Conference, and they also came out. So, to the Lord of the Episcopal Conference, I don't know if God ever existed, but I'm sure that, if he did exist, he was left-handed; so while they are praying and working and fostering their interests, their privileges and their friends, we will continue to work for the popular classes of this country. [[Greetings.]] Because, plus... plus, at this point, I think it's more important than I ever get confused about where we are and what we're playing. I think it's either about strengthening democracy or going to barbarism. Because, besides, democrats I think we can't afford to make a mistake right now or place ourselves where the opponent wants us. I believe that today more than ever I can defend civil, political, social and economic rights; today more than ever I can defend the value of the word and the dialog; today more than ever I can manifest the revolutionary value of empathy, that every time it is scarcer, and now more than ever I can not fall into the parany of the Bride, of the Abascal and of the Arrimadas. And that's why I want to end up with a double yes: a yes to self-government and the Catalan institutions and a yes to investiture and the progressive coalition government; yes to politics, yes to dialogue and yes to solutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.52.0	Thank you, President. Well, we are here, President, to denounce and reject the repression and the judicialization of politics, to reject the state of exception and the general cause against independence that involves repression over thousands of people, the impregnation of designs of independent activists, almost a hundred years of condemnation for political prisoners and prisoners and exile for many companies, which involves the denial or limitation of civil rights and fundamental policies such as the right to self-determination for all a people, but also to protest, protest or freedom of expression. President, today the CUP is not here to give support to its Government; we do not share its political action – you know – neither in the field of defence of the national rights of our country nor in the field of its public policies. We cannot approve the management of a government that is more favourable to the interests of capital than that of the popular classes, more favourable to speculation with the common good and the destruction of the territory than to the defense of the country and its citizenship. Keeping in the hands of many of our public services and our basic and strategic resources, and manifesting a lack of political will to regain its essential public sovereignty in order to guarantee social justice and to achieve a true self-determination, say much of the true direction of its government. To work with repression, to sell the country, to apply anti-social policies and gestures and symbolism; to advance self-determination and for the defense of social rights truly and already. Since October 1, 17th, we denounce and reject the lack of political determination of the governments of the Generality and of the parties that support it to exercise the right to self-determination and to guarantee the rights of our people. We are here at a time when the majority of political forces have chosen to close the spaces of freedom that the people had opened in their struggle before, during and after the U of October and with the popular response to the Supreme Court; they have chosen, at a time when the State is losing important judicial battles on an international scale, to support and strengthen it. At a time when we can deepen the democratic conflict persisting in civil and institutional disobedience, defending self-determination, amnesty and the guarantee of all rights, at a time when fighting can win freedom spaces, the majority of political forces seem to have decided to prioritize their party interests and seem to be more compromised with the preservation of the status than with the cause of the rights of our people's collections, and have chosen to become a key part in the re-founding of the 78's regime, under the gaze of false dialogues and false negotiations and consultations, in the change of springs and promises of power and of reform, always in the guise of the constitutional and monarchy pact, always with the permission of IBEX. If yesterday Mr. Ábalos was not quite clear, today Mr. Pedro Sánchez has been clear: everything in the Constitution and not in the self-determination reference. Common and ERC, this is the mark of the State: strengthening the regime and autonomy; don't be mistaken and don't deceive us. The first response was not expected, and the regime, now at the hands of the JEC, commits a new set of judicial states and claims to disable what the people and Parliament have decided. Because the regime and repression, president, can fight them ever stronger. Because the 78th rule, before dialogue with him, would defeat him democratically. And for all this – for all this, President – today we defend and demand the fictitiousness of repression, the freedom of all political prisoners and prisoners and exiles and of all persons repressed, of all; we defend and demand the fullness of the rights of the Junqueras Euro MPs, Puigdemont and Comin to exercise without restriction the mandate attached to their electors and electors, and we ask, also, we ask the Parliament of Catalonia, that today the confirmation to you, President, in your positions of deputy and president of the Generality, now and always, we remove the apparatus of a state that claims to deny the rights and democracys of our people, that we can consecrate in political terms. And that's why we call and call upon all the independenceist, sovereignist and left-wing forces of the Catalan countries to confront a corrupt monarchy and the rule that sustains it by mediating continued popular mobilization, civil and institutional disobedience and the establishment of an international table for self-determination. Self-determination is not negotiated; amnesty is not negotiated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.53.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.54.0	... social rights are not negotiation – I finish, president – but they are taken. Take them now. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.56.0	Thank you very much, President. What kind of biblical curse has fallen to the Catalans with the presidents of the Generalitat that we have had since the restoration of democracy? The truth is that luck we haven't had; since Tarradellas, there is no way, but when it seemed impossible to make Carles Puigdemont worse you appeared on stage. I am not going to spend too much time on it – and I have little time on it – but the end of his journey could not be another: the grotesque episode lived yesterday of the rent and later raised, thirteen_minutes later, of the Spanish flag serves as a perfect metaphor for his entire mandate. Not even a teenager in the middle of the turkey would have come up with something so lame for everyone. And I say «shut for all because I know that there are thousands of independenceists who felt a deep shame with the delirious thirteen_minutes. But I pointed out that I will not spend too much time on it because I think it is much more important to analyse the whole attitude of the separatist bench in relation to judicial decisions or democratic institutions. It is worth returning to September 6 and 7 two years ago and to the Law of Transition that you adopted here in this Parliament, the most revealing article of which was the article in which you converted Carles Puigdemont, president, into the highest judicial authority in Catalonia, into a kind of plenipotentiary national populist leader. And it's that justice only works for you when you're right: if a European court gives you reason, "live Europe; if you don't recognize independence, "Europe, facha; if the Constitutional Court gives you reason, back to independence; if the next day it takes it away, "Spain, facha; if the Provincial Electoral Board gives you reason, "button to the PP; if the next day the central of the removal, "Spain, facha, and so on every day, every day. You demonstrate this: you do not serve justice and democratic institutions unless you always give them reason. Well, precisely to avoid this kind of caudillist temptations that so often assault them, Montesquieu devised the separation of powers. And later, a few years later, the Americans devised the democratic counterweights; something that the Anglo-Saxons called "checks and balances and whose maximum propellant, James Madison, in 1787 defined as evocative: "If men were angels, the government would not be necessary; if angels were to rule men, government controls would not be necessary." Pure democracy. Exactly the opposite of his nauseating Law of Transition. Well, the electoral board, composed of eight judges of the Supreme Court and five professors appointed by Congress, constitutes a fundamental pillar precisely of the system of democratic counterweights between the different powers of the State. That is why it is so serious, extraordinarily serious, that the Socialist Party discredits and discredits a fundamental democratic institution these days, with an unprecedented and unbridled attack, and despite the fact that it was you who pushed the reform of the Electoral Law in force today. And they have done so, I insist, without barracks and each with its own style: Mr.Iceta, in a sybilical way, as usual – yesterday, through a viscous communication from the Socialist Party of Catalonia – ; Mrs. Adriana Lastra, faithful to her style agraph, which characterizes him, and Mr.José Zaragoza – I am sorry to say this in those terms –, pimp and tavern, as is usual in him. The damage they're doing to democracy these days to get the investiture is unacceptable and it's starting to be irreversible, but they think we'll be in front of it so it doesn't. That is why I want to end this intervention by highlighting and highlighting the dignity of the thirteen members of the electoral board, the seven who gave us reason and the six who took it from us; all of them did their job. I also wanted to convey from the People's Party a message of confidence in the rule of law and in our democracy. Look, your institutions will sometimes give us reason and sometimes they will take it away from us. It's happened to us. We'll do it all the time. And we will always act without fear, with serenity, without authoritarian temptations and with the utmost confidence in the rule of law and in the fact that Spain is a great nation and its democracy one of the great democracies of the world, the ultimate reason why it will always prevail. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.58.0	Very late in the day, all of them. It is also very late for the presidents who are accompanying us today – President Mas, President Benach, President Rigol and President De Gispert – and also for the mayors and mayors who are present today in this room, and for the rest of the authorities. Good afternoon, President Torra. Why yes; you are the President of the Generality and we recognize it here today and we make it very clear: you, hardly the weight of some, are the President of the Generality. And today we come here with a generation four to make it clear that democracy always wins. And today we denounce that we are in front of a fierce attack on democracy and the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia and we are in front of an extraordinarily difficult moment, an absolute moment... a moment of an absolute democratic abnormality; in fact, one more. Unfortunately, we have been living in democratic abnormality for a long time: the powers of the State want to re-determine who it is..., the presidents of the Catalans. But let us make it very clear, and so we will reiterate, that the only ones who can decide who is the President of the Generality..., is this Parliament of Catalonia in representation of the Catalan people. That is why we make it clear that the President of the Generality is the most honorable Quim Torra and so it will be until the citizenry decides otherwise. It's a common democratic sense question, it's a democracy question. Unfortunately, however, it has been a long time since we lived in a democratic abnormality; it has been a long time since we lived, that we skate, we can say, a general cause against independence. In fact, a persecution as inverse as it has been in the history of our country, where there have been most of the most prominent political leaders of Catalonia, in the past century, who have been victims of repression, repression and prosecutions by the powers of the Spanish authorities, from Macia to companies – to the extreme of being executed – passing through Irla, through Tarradellas, in historical episodes still alive; recently President Mas, disqualified; President Puigdemont – unfortunately now to exile – ceased through 155, but also Vice President Junqueras or President Forcadell, now in prison; all the government of the U of Octopus – which has been ordered by Parliament, variously or publicly; These violations are the ones we have been living here in this Parliament, unfortunately, in our country, too much time, in this general cause against independence, where the persecutions and the undertakings of people to manifest themselves or even with accusations of terrorism and detentions are added. In the face of this general cause, not a crack in the anti-repressive solidarity; in the face of this general cause, the most sincere embrace to all retaliated persons. [[Greetings.]] Let us say, therefore, that we are here ready to defend democracy, ready to reiterate that the President of the Generality is the one who listens to the citizens through this Parliament and that, in any case, who is sure that he cannot say it, it is the Central Electoral Board, judges and part of a cause that is a democratic, surrealist aberration, an administrative sea that cannot – I repeat: that cannot – withdraw an act of deputy without there being a feeling, in any case, that does not approach him. It's an undemocratic fact, and that's why we're reporting it. It is not the only attack we saw yesterday on the President of the Generality, but we also saw how they have – they continue to have – Oriol Junqueras taken unfairly and want to keep moving away from him, despite the fact that European justice has been very clear. A judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union cau, which has fallen like a slug in the Spanish justice system. Junqueras, like Puigdemont and Comín, is a Euro MP. And so, you have immunity and you have to be able to exercise your rights alongside others with freedom. And so, even though they don't like it, the JEC is none to decide on Oriol Junqueras or to decide on the President of the Generality. The State, with these examples, with this general cause, with these two examples that we saw yesterday, as usual, what we see is that it is unable to be a fully democratic state, it is unable to modernise and it is in failed democracy. Not only that; we have seen the powers of the State as covering anything to maintain the old privileges of the rule, because their own survival is played out. Even we see how the State is able to go and make an effort against democracy. We see how this operation of the State's keyposts, with the protagonist – as we have seen – of the People's Party, Vox and Ciutadans, that by the back door try to change the decisions that parliaments make and that citizens take at the polls. It's a state operation, led by the right and by the physical powers. Fix – as I remembered before – that he was the same leader of the PP who announced the resolution of the JEC, before he was produced. Do they realize how scandalous the performance of the powers of the State is and how little they hide? That is why, arrived at this plethora, arrived at this point, before this disqualification, of the maneuvers of the State, today, from the Republic Group, what we want to do, clear and stop here, is to shield the Presidency of President Quim Torra. We maintain ourselves in the defense of the Catalan institutions, in the defense of the Presidency of the Generality. And also, we claim to shield the dialog. And shielding the negotiations and the political path; we want to maintain the political path to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. The Spanish right attacks the President of the Generality, attack also Oriol Junqueras, as we saw yesterday, because what it wants is to boost the road led through a negotiation process achieved for independence. We, from the Republican Left, are not the executor arm of this right and these physical powers. We've defended and we're always defending the dialog. And so, today we won't swallow any of the right-wing state. We will not claude before whom they want to escape, from whom they want to eliminate the Presidency of the Generality. Nor be the falca that they need at the Congress PP, Vox or Ciutadans, to enlarge. In fact, independence is the main force that is opening lefts in this 78th rule, by the democratic force that implies the same independence; by the social transformation that it carries associated with its project, with our plan to have a Catalan republic of rights and freedoms. And now, too, because with this recognition of the conflict that we have over the table and with this recognition of the two parts, that we have over the table, we also show a political force that we want to exercise and also a democratic force, that we cannot renounce to exercise, and a force of credibility at the international level, that we do not want to renounce to hold it. We have an opportunity, and we also have the responsibility to take advantage of it, to take advantage of this opportunity and which can, therefore, with the activation of the political path, abandon the path of repression and judicialization. And now what? In the face of this general cause, what do we have to do? So, we must follow; we must resist, persist, make it and build it. With cycling [[the speaker laughs]] that if you just don't stop pedaling and moving, what you do is lose balance and fall, and so, don't move forward, what you're about to do is move forward, move forward and move forward so you won't be defeated. Only move forward if we persist, as Oriol Junqueras always says. Therefore, before this attempt of a coup d'état, this attempt of a coup d'état démocratique, it only stands up defending and rehabilitating President Torra des del Parlament – here today we are – and also maintaining the defense of the negotiation, of the negotiating table between governments in Madrid, in order to resolve politically the conflict between Catalonia and the State. We have armour without doubt, the President of the Generality and the institution, since the Parliament of Catalonia, which is his of the popular sovereignty of our people. And before the attacks of the power of the Spanish State, we demand each other. And now, we can, with our position as much here as at the Congress, have a negotiating table between Catalonia and the Spanish State, in order to democratically resolve the political conflict, as we also claim the streets. We have the option of making it compatible, at once, and at the same time, as we think it is necessary, the democratic confrontation necessary at this time, with the dialogue and negotiation to have a democratic solution to the conflict. And we want – at this negotiating table – from government to government, we want, president, that you are the leader of the Catalan delegation in this dialogue and in this negotiation to build the democratic solution. The more you have to bet on politics, on the negotiating table, the more the judicial and repressive way you want to impose on us..., the more you want to impose on democracy. If they don't want President Torra, let's sit down, President, at the table, which is an instrument and not an object in itself, to defend everything we want. If the State wants the president out of the game, let's play all the game, President Torra. We are the same team, we are going to play the game of democracy, we are going there with the great consensus of country that are also our own: self-determination and amnesty. Let's go and win. They want to divide us, but they won't make it, we won't allow it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.59.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.60.0	And, therefore, we follow the strong defense, as always, the democratic confrontation, as we are here today, giving them all the support. And also, always, the negotiation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.61.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.62.0	...and politics and the word, to solve political conflicts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.64.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very honorable President of the Generality, you are a Member, you are the President of the Generality of Catalonia, of all Catalans and of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Speakers of Parliament, Speakers of Parliament who can attend this plenary today ; a record to President Forcadell, who cannot attend it. [[Greetings.]] President disqualified, Mr.Artur Mas; there is also the disqualified counselor Irene Rigau. And he's following us, too, the president in exile, President Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] Mr. President Torra, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, we wish to express solemnly all the support to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, in this case to you. [[Greetings.]] Yesterday was a black day for democracy, yesterday was a new black day for any Democrat. The moment is hard. It is an abuse of democracy and an interference with the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, expressed in Parliament. Only parliaments are the ones who listen to the President of the Government of Catalonia. Never can an administered organ, such as the Central Electoral Board, cling to the ability to disable the president of the Catalonian Government. For this reason, yesterday the State, again, perpetrated a new application of 155, a 155 for the back door, an action, premeditated aggression to the sovereignty of this Parliament. And, consequently, the sovereignty of all the people of Catalonia. We reject..., Together for Catalonia we reject the resolution of the Central Electoral Board, an administered organ cannot disable the president of the Generality of Catalonia. The Central Electoral Board is the State, and this State looks like a banana republic. We defend ourselves, as we always have, and go to all, go to all to defend the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. Let's all go out and defend that it is the Parliament that listens to the presidents of the Government of Catalonia. Together for Catalonia we'll plant ourselves, we've planted ourselves and we'll do it again. We know that the Spanish State is addicted to repression. Catalonia suffers from chronic repression by the Spanish State. Yesterday's attack on the Presidency of the Generality, the withdrawal of the Euro MP's condition to Vice-President Junqueras would also be unacceptable. But the victims of repression have names and surnames, and they are drawings and drawings of people: political prisoners, exiles, reprisals. People like Tamara, people like the 23-S detainees, people who have suffered, in the first person, because of being independentists. And today we also remember them, because repression has affected us, that's right. For example: in three years, the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in this case, in our political space, we have seen how two presidents have been disabled and one president has ceased. President Mas, disqualified for November 9; President Puigdemont, disqualified for October 17; ceased for October 17. And you, President Torra, disqualified for a banner that says: "Freedom political prisoners, which has now felt more than ever the banner of "Freedom political prisoners. We've lived it, too, for those two years. Now the 10th day of generation will be two years that it has constituted that ple of Parliament. And what have we seen in these two years? We have seen how all the rights, parliamentary immunity, President Puigdemont's, have been violated, that the 30th generation was not summoned here, at its plethora, to be summoned to the president who won the elections in Catalonia, with the majority of parliament that gave him back. Or the Jordi Sánchez, who was not allowed to attend here to be invested president of the Generality. Or that of the Jordi Turull, on that black day of democracy, who immigrated from a ple was put in prison so that you did not accede to the presidency of the Generality. Or the same guy. Or what we saw, as did the Central Electoral Board, in the case of MEPs, which did not allow them to present to President Puigdemont the Toni Comín and Clara Ponsatí. What we saw, too, how the president of the Congress quickly suspended – Mrs Batet – the electoral rights of Jordi Sánchez, Turull, Rull, Romeva and Oriol Junqueras. We've seen how all this time they've been violating their rights and the time is hard. And now united country, because democracy, the rights and freedoms and the dignity of our institutions, and especially the dignity of the Presidency of the Generality, are at stake. It's not a nominal issue, this isn't Quim Torra's; this is from the President of the Generality, Mr. Quim Torra, and it's up to us to defend. And the Parliament has to plant itself and we will plant ourselves, we will hold still. We will not recognize, in any case, the effects that the Central Electoral Board may have on the modification and alteration of the composition of this Parliament or the election of the President of the Government of Catalonia. The electoral board is the seat of deputies, but they cannot be removed in any case. Because that's democracy. Jordi Turull had a phrase that today goes very well: "The Spanish State is not a state of right; it is a state that pulls for the right. And today he showed it again; that goes for democracy. The U of October, when they beat the crap out of us, when we defended a referendum. On November 9th, she was a democracy woman. By the year 2010, the Constitutional Court suspended Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy, a referendum for Catalans and Catalans, a year of democracy. It's been a while since democracy, it's not new. It is not new that we are in a hurry; this has long been democracy and respect for the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. The Spanish State has not accepted any formal decisions, voted in reference, of the last two years, of the people of Catalonia. And that's a good day to report it, too. And I also want to say here, now that this new mantra is set up, that it's a right-wing complaint, "Oh, that's the right-wing, the extreme right-wing, isn't it? ...I know that, Mr. Iceta, you have nothing to do with Vox, don't you? They have nothing to do with Vox; it's a game with which they don't practically share anything from an ideological point of view, right? – I've heard it say, comment some time. But, of course, Vox today said that President Tora has to be detained – Vox today said that President Tora has to be detained – and, he said, he has to be detained "with the Constitution at hand. So two years ago, you, members of the Socialist Party, together with the People's Party and the Lords of Ciutadans, with the Constitution at hand, arrested the legitimate government of Catalonia, which is still in prison. [[Greetings.]] And that's the reality. As Vox asks now, in these moments, you have already done. And the decisions they've made all this time have been on the same line. Now let's see that here, "listen, we don't remember, because, of course, we need to be good at the investiture and we need to be good at it, etc. But, of course, the quarrels against the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia to talk about the right of self-determination, who presented them? [[Greetings.]] The government of Pedro Sánchez has introduced them! The prosecution, the state's attorney, the actions that have taken place against the members of the Bureau, the charges for the October U, all the repression that has taken place, who has taken place them? The closure of the foreign delegations, the quarrels against the Interior Councillor for the protection of President Puigdemont, the support of the Euroorders, all that we have suffered, what has done it? I'm escorting you, S.C.P. lords, you're complicit in 155. And now they can rectify, yes. And if you want to rectify this is the moment you are here announcing that you will not give support to the supplicator of the European Parliament against President Puigdemont and the Toni Comín, if you want to rectify. [[Greetings.]] You want to rectify? Do it. Fets, don't talk. Accions, don't talk. Withdraw the quarrels, withdraw the quarrels of the Government of the State against the Government of Catalonia. Completing the agreements. I, mirin, lords of the commons, you say... – lords; lords and lords – you say... (Founding voice.) Do you know what the best government Catalonia can have? – Do you know what the best government Catalonia can have? – which you said ‘the best government. The best government Catalonia can have is a government of an independent state in the form of a republic. (Applause.) This is the best government Catalonia can have; that we govern ourselves. I know you've thought a lot about Vox... you've thought a lot about your position, in Spain, etc. But, listen to me, look, you're here now remember Saint Barbara when she thrones. Because like this election board thing right now, they see that maybe they can take out their falls, their ministries, and they can take out this, so now we're all running to defend it. Because when the election board went against our Junts candidacy for Catalonia in June and May, you shut up and didn't say anything. (Applause.) And they didn't remember. And the repression all this time we've suffered, and you've shut up a lot. ( Someone says, "Come on now!") They've shut up a lot. (Whispering) Voting here, teaching the posters...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.65.0	Silence, deputies!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.66.0	... teaching the cartels, in the declaration of independence, because we fall into criminal cases against the deputies and deputies. (Whispering) That's what you did, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.67.0	Deputies... silence!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.68.0	...and you did it during that time. Therefore, I act accordingly. Yes, ladies; yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am. (Whispering) I know they don't like it, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.69.0	Members....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.70.0	...but democracy always has to be consistent, when you have options to be in government and when we have to be in opposition. (Applause.) I'm done, Mr. President, I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.71.0	Shut up, everybody! Take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.72.0	Europe... (Remains the remorse of the veils.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.73.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.74.0	...show us that when the people of Catalonia go together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.75.0	Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.76.0	...you can win; if you persist, you can win. And the voters of October 1 must know that we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.77.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.78.0	...we won't give up. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.79.0	Once the groups and sub-groups of Parliament have spoken, if you wish, the President of the Generality has the word. Don't you? (Pause.) So let's finish this point of the order of the day. And, as we have explained before, we will now make a recess, a suspension of the plenary, in order to be able to make the Bureau and the Board of Preceptive Spokesmen to respond to requests for reconsideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.80.0	MPs, MPs, I nail them to vagrate and occupy their respective scons, that we resume the session. [[Modification of the agenda]] Well, as parliamentary groups and sub-groups have called for this plenary session to begin, and in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we continue to vote on the different requests for amendment of the agenda. I proposed three votes. First of all, we would vote in bulk on the enlargement of the agenda to include the debate and vote on the three motions for resolutions tabled today, which are: the motion for a resolution before the repressive action of the Central Electoral Board respects the very Honourable President Quim Torra and the Euro MP Oriol Junqueras, in defense of the institutions of Catalonia, presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republican and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent. The second would be the Motion for a resolution on the agreement of the Central Electoral Board of the 3rd generation of 2020, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar. And, finally, in this bloc, we would vote for a third motion for a resolution to include in this enlargement of the agenda, which is the motion for a resolution on the resolution of the Central Electoral Board, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. We therefore vote for the inclusion of these three motions for resolutions. Before that, we'll call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let us then proceed to the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the debate and to the vote on these three motions for resolutions. The vote begins. These three proposals for inclusion in the agenda have been approved by 90 votes in favour, 37 against, no abstentions and 1 Member present who has not voted. Therefore, they are engulfed in the order of the day. Let us now vote, in accordance with the request made by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, on the enlargement of the agenda to include the debate on the proposal for a law on accessibility and security in children's parks and areas. The vote begins. This request for an extension of the agenda was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 75 against and 17 abstentions, for which reason it is not included in this plenary. And now we move on to the proposal to extend the agenda of the day for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, with the enlargement..., to include the debate to the totality on the Law Proposal for the elimination of prefabricated modules of the public educational centres of Catalonia. Shall we proceed to the vote? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This request for enlargement of the agenda was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 75 against and 17 abstentions. So he didn't stick to the order of the day. Next, and as soon as they have just voted for what they do to the enlargement of the agenda, we shall proceed to substanceise the joint debate on the three motions for resolutions tabled today. [[Motion for a resolution rebutting the repressive action of the Central Electoral Board against the President of the Generalitat, Quim Torra, and the Euro MP Oriol Junqueras, and in defense of the institutions of Catalonia]] [[250-01133/12]] Since the first proposal has been submitted jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent ; the second proposal has been submitted for the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, and the third, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú May, in the first place have the word five proposing groups, for a maximum time of thirty minutes each..., and of fifteen minutes the subgroup. Therefore, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natialia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.81.0	Good evening to all and to all and good welcome to the New Year's Eve. Today, not as I say, we are here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in an extraordinary session, in an exceptional session, as exceptional was the way that Quim Torra took to the presidency of the Generality, with a judiciary that throughout the legislature has conditioned the investment processes: first preventing the election of Carles Puigdemont, after taking candidate Jordi Turull to the middle of the investment process, suspending deputies by making parliamentary arithmetic constantly altered and, finally, disabling President Quim Torra. President, you took on your role at a very complex time, and once the deixi, the complexity will persist. And I look at the things, Members and Members, that we are here once more, defending the president of a government that from our point of view has not been at the height of the country's demands and needs – but we are here –; a government formed by two political forces, Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, in constant struggle for the country's electoral hegemony; some forces, from our point of view, that often or often confound the country with the party. Today Parliament is meeting urgently to do what we understand to be minimal, and that is why we are presenting this motion for a resolution: show the solidarity of parliamentary groups with President Quim Torra and MEP Oriol Junqueras before a state that likes to show their power arrogantly, in the wake of a persistent general cause against independence. Today he remembered the first Ple after the exile of the deputy Marta Rovira, the impresonation of President Forcadell, of the Lower Dolors, of the advisers Josep Rull and Jordi Turull, as I said, immig of an investiture process. And in the march of that parliament, of that parliament that I made, I said: "The whole country, like the Parliament, is under exception, under the doctrine of the rock, under inquisitorial persecution. The synthesis is drastic and perverse: they impose on us by judicial and extrajudicial means, too, that they already know they are incapable of winning by democratic and peaceful means. And that's what's going on; the state, by the way, says it doesn't accept the results of the 21st of December. The project, its project, that of the State, its offer for this country, is what it is: exiles, imprisonment, fucking cop, abuse of power. And it must be very useless to believe that this will solve anything. Two years after this intervention, it seems that many things have changed, but the determination of the State to escape independence persists. And it does, again, conditioning investment processes; now also the investiture of the Spanish Government. The « Quiet everyone or l'l'A for them! it resonates, as if it were today, every time the machine of the soft state file; saves with tie, saves with toga, in defense of the unitary reaction of Spain, as if it is drawn from a universal right. We would already like to see this same state apparatus defending the right to habitat with the same vehemence and with the same effectiveness. Judicial violence against the democratic claim of self-determination, judicial rape, now, against freedom of expression. And once more we remember the dignity of the companies of the PAH, which, before the judgment of the U of October, they say to us: "They come to all and it is not time to set themselves a profile. The CUP, therefore, we are here and do not have a profile: maximum repression, maximum responsibility; if they attack us as the people, we answer as the people. The current government's exhaustion is a fact of the past few months, and the UPC has thus identified it as making a clear and compelling opposition. In ideal conditions, we would like to pass this legislature, finish it and start another one. As well as the repressive context that President Quim Torra assigns to him, he makes any old man not to do the need for virtue. The Government of the Generality does not have the support of the CUP; a government that, from our point of view, is suspicious; a government that, from our point of view, has failed dramatically, because the strategy of restitution was and continues to be a bad strategy; a government without the work of government, with advice acting each for its own band, without the independence strategy, without concrete defense of rights, without conviction in the guarantee of universal public services; a government without courage in the fight against climate emergency, which does not want to confront the extractive elites; a government that wants to be carried out and has not only been, but has been effective in the fight against climate emergency, which does not want to confront the extractive elites; a government that wants to be carried out and that has not been, but has been, but has been, in the fight against climate emergency, which does not want to deal with people, in particular, with people, and with people who have been transformed, in opposition, in opposition, in opposition to governments. And it will seem a small thing to you, but it is a paradigm that we find ourselves in this situation, with a government that is systematically presented as a particular accusation against dissent. This is the government that the CUP does not support, a government of order. If one thing could allow the popular U of October revolt was the embodiment of rights in all senses, and you have worked in the opposite direction. The dialogue and negotiation must be without repression and based on self-determination exercised by means of a referendum, amnesty and the guarantee of all social, civil and political rights. Today we think that the challenge is to face a national agreement on self-determination and self-referendum, amnesty and rights and freedoms, as I said, so as to be able to impact with all strength and decisively on all scenes and political spaces, as a priority challenge over negotiations with the State, in full repression and limitations for the Constitution and autonomous reforms. We must spread the fight and disobedience to all the institutions of the country, also to the municipalities, and create institutional spaces of democratic sovereignty. It is in this sense that we think that the call of the Assembly of Elected Carrecs of Catalonia is urgent and that this concrete action agency in response to repression, in defense of the sovereignties and self-determination. As we discuss all the proposals together, I will refer to the motion for a resolution tabled to us by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC, and we cannot clearly value it without taking into account the history of the PSC in this half-years ago. It is curious and surprising to see how, after these years, as I say, constant interferences of the state judiciary, today the PSC puts in its text a lesson of process law. MPs and MPs of the PSC, we consider that this is not what matters now; what we liked to see is an unequivocal defense of popular will, democracy. And we ask ourselves: "Where was the PSC when they were cutting rights but didn't affect them in their party interests directly? I will tell you: « The PSC was filing appeals before the Constitutional Court of the PP's and Ciutadans's hands. They came here today to be a good cop in the context of negotiations that are obvious. The proposal for a resolution of the PSC, like that of the commons..., have two years of repression, two years of exile, two years of imprisonment, 2,500 people retaliated since 2017; it is more, they have the natural nature of the State and come to say to us once more that it was all Rajoy's fault and that now that the government of Sánchez and Iglesias are all flowers and violets. That's why, I suppose they're repealing the biting law; well, now it doesn't touch. Or, that's why they repeal the counter-reform work; well, what they do concretely is change three questions and maintain their essence. Or change 135 of the Spanish Constitution; neither. Lucky he was a progressive government! Flowers and violets under the umbrella of progressiveism, with no intention of changing and altering the nature of this State. I have no intention of being an axifaguitars, but we consider that the agreement to which they have come does not involve any structural change or measure of progress to the impending new capitalist crisis. Today Pedro Sánchez, in his first investiture speech, spoke of "an inherited conflict, referring to the government of the PP. But don't be mistaken... and, precisely, linked to this natural and this structure of the State, we want to refer to this heritage. They are not wrong in the origin of the heritage, because yes, and as long as it is inherited: the heritage of a false democracy built on the foundations of national Catholicism. The inherited problem, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is the Bourbon monarchy that inherited its power directly from the dictator Francisco Franco and the regime that supports it. Vet here questioned her. Independence has increased in recent years as an alternative to the impossibility of reform of the State, for its natural, and has resisted and consolidated in the context of the repression of the State. To believe that this reform is possible entails an obvious risk of stagnation and demobilisation; to contribute to the stability of the Spanish Government to change symbolic gestures has the difficult risk of moving the debate of the exercise of the right to self-determination from the centre. The problem of the State, I repeat, was not Mr Rajoy, it is not now the Central Electoral Board, it is not the courts that act individually or unilaterally anti-democraticly and suppressing the democratic majorities of Catalonia; it is a problem of a whole state and its apparatuses, a state that we continue to think is irreformable. The motion for a resolution tabled by Catalonia in Comú includes a few points with which we cannot agree, and that is why we are asking for a separate vote. Catalonia in Comú intends to show the interference of the Central Electoral Board in the Catalan institution as an iron that has more to do with the investment pact to the Spanish Government than with the continued use of the enemy's right on the part of the Spanish judiciary with the independence forces. For us, the Central Electoral Board is now acting as the Spanish judiciary has been in the past few years. In fact, it does as it always does against independence; when it was still a minority proposal..., female memory and remember the operation Garzón of 92 as it shows a time more than has acted, I insist, the judiciary. Therefore, it is not a circumstantial question, it is not a question that the JEC now wants to rush against this progress pact; it is a systemic question, and its proposals for resolution, both those of the commons and those of the SCPs, are – they are clear – to this structural question. From the PSC, which forms part of this apparatus of the State, we expected it, but from Catalonia in Comú We may hope to do an analysis that goes further to the structure of the question we find ourselves and not to the circumstance. The agreement they are seeking is an agreement... the agreement, as I was analyzing, the agreement that has been established in the context of the Spanish State, we understand that it is an agreement that has been conceived in counter-rolling, that seems to be part of the gear, in three acts, of the pacts that stand in front of the Government of the Generality and the Assembly of Barcelona. We read Esquerra's forbearance to Pedro Sánchez's investiture as well; we understand that he also responds to this agreement in three acts. I insist, the CUP reads the agreement that it has reached unilaterally – unilaterally from an independentist perspective – with an agreement that seeks to permanently deactivate the only strategy that can bring us closer to self-determination, that is, a strategy of democratic break-up with the 78's rule. We don't think there's a possible deal out there. And we do so with the conviction that the new phase that we are starting can mean an enhancement or an affluence of independence. To us you will find us for strength, for a strategy that links the republican confrontation with social rights, with the U of October's experience, with institutional disobedience when it is necessary and with the unity of institutions with the street and popular mobilization. We do not want to fail to make a point of the fact that the government that now defends itself has the possibility of being realized in the measure that it is the fruit of the mobilizing power. 15-M and independence are engines of change, and so they should continue to feel warm that they should not forget it, in the course of their months as negotiators who claim to close conflicts on the loose – their strength in popular power and will be on the street where the accounts will pass them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.83.0	Too late to all and all, again. He said before, deputies and deputies, that democracy always won. So today is the time for us to demonstrate once again and to exercise, therefore, the sovereignty of our Parliament, of the Parliament of Catalonia, that we defend ourselves with the votes that will continue the presidency of the Generality, that we defend, therefore, the institutions and that they shield us from the attacks of the keyposts of the State that we are patenting these days and that, ultimately, they are repeated. That is why it was important to be able to speak in this Parliament; the band of the appearance, to be able to position us, to also be able to make political pronouncements in the votes of the motions for resolutions that we will continue to make. We have put forward a proposal for a joint resolution – now explicit, too – between Junts for Catalonia, between the CUP and between the Republican Parliamentary Group, because, before the democratic attacks – and I have already referred to it – before the democratic attacks, before the persecution, before the repression, it is a matter of iron pinya, it is a matter of going all to one, and, as I say, capo fissura, which is excluded in the anti-repressive solidarity and persecution of this general cause. And all conviction, therefore, that it should continue, that it should persist and that it is the way, following and persisting and insisting, so as to win. Precisely, the motion for a resolution that we have tabled back all these terms that were commented upon and makes a special mention also of the denunciation of this general case against independence, which is seen with the open causes against the members of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia; with the persecution of the Court, also, of Accounts, with a repression..., which sometimes we do not forget, persecution and economic repression; with all the open causes to the mayors and mayors of the country for having participated, for having made possible the U of October, to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, to the Court of Instruction number 13; with the patient repression and a persecution also suffered for the detainees and detainees of 23 September and the rest of our country, in general. This is all part of a general cause, and it wouldn't be understood if we didn't understand it as a general cause, it wouldn't be understood if we just dealt with each of the cases in a winged way. And that is why today, in concrete terms, it is the beginning of this attack by the Central Electoral Board against the President, against the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia, and also against Oriol Junqueras, that we make this motion for a resolution that what we do is to explain our rejection of the resolution of the Central Electoral Board that was produced yesterday that wanted, that they claim, that they wanted to disable the very honourable President of the Generality, and therefore to ratify it today as it is, as a Member, so that we decided on the citizenship of our country, and, therefore, as President, because that is why we decided on the citizenship of the country also through this Parliament when it was voted. What we are doing in this motion for a resolution is also calling the Central Electoral Board's intention to disable the President yesterday. I, in this double news, bad news, d'ahir, there's not one without two. So, yesterday, to the band of this alleged disqualification on behalf of the Central Electoral Board to the president of the Generalitat, so also, to the head of a Estonia, by the mouth of Pablo Casado, of the spokesman of the People's Party, we know also of the attack, of the persecution, in this case, to the figure of the Oriol Junqueras, the president of Republican Esquerra, want to disable it also and remove the parliamentary immunity. So, in this sense, too, in this motion for a resolution we show our support for the MEPs, both in Oriol Junqueras and in Carles Puigdemont and Toni Comín, and because they can exercise fully and freely their political functions in accordance with the votes rejected for citizenship. Because if one thing is clear from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union it is that democracy always goes before any of the mechanisms that it wants to build any state to prevent these people from accessing the condition of MEPs. Clear. Before we say it too, it fell like a slug before the..., over the Spanish justice or the Spanish injustice, this feeling. And, as such, as a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is a direct compliment on the part of Spain's justice. In this sense, therefore, we denounce it here, let us make it clear, we demand all our support for the MEPs, and we also advance, therefore, that, obviously, it will denounce European institutions, if this does not end as it has to end, and also before the European Parliament, if there is a failure to achieve this. Also in this motion for a resolution, as it cannot be in any other way, what we are claiming is which is our objective, which, in short, is to build a Catalan republic, and as such, to get there, we demand the fictitiousness of repression – that it does not serve the repression to stop the independence movement, we have said it a thousand times and we will say it once and for all that it takes until this repression is over – we demand the fictitiousness of repression, we also demand, therefore, the recognition of the right to self-determination, because we understand that it is the way; the exercise of the right to self-determination is the democratic way that we can all agree to the right to self-determination, because we believe that the right to self-determination is the right to self-determination is the right to self-determination of the country, that we can, in any case, secure that all the right to self-determination of our country, and the right to self-determination, and the right to self-determination of our country, and the right to self-determination that we can, we can vote on the right, and the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to self-determination of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to freedom of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to freedom to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to freedom to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to And how do you do that, too? It is clear, then, that through a national agreement, we can defend all these objectives. Because we have already said this before, the same president has also said this: this way we have done it together and we have to follow it together, talking to everyone, talking to everyone, also between the independence movement, all those that we are part of, different actors, both political and social, that we are part of the independence movement and that therefore we share this objective of making Catalonia an independent country and achieving the Catalan Republic, agreeing, rebuilding this strategic unit that we have often found to be missing. Here we are again presenting a joint proposal – and we must continue on this path – but also speaking to everyone, not only with those who are already convinced that the best is the Catalan Republic, also asking those with whom we share the objectives or who are still not convinced that the best for our country, for our future, that the best to guarantee the rights and freedoms for everyone and also to guarantee a country with equal opportunity is the Republic; also with those entities, with those actors with whom we still do not share the defined objective, the ultimate goal, but we do share the democratic defense and the most fundamental rights for the ability to articulate the majority. And that's what we're gonna be defending. This national agreement that must be able to gather the great consensus can be a great step forward. So we replace ourselves, we put ourselves in the mood to be able to work it, to be able to pull it forward. The great consensus in this national agreement, which, as we have already reiterated and will reiterate, passes through self-determination and passes through amnesty. As it is also close to doing at this point, it is to evaluate the motions for resolutions put forward for the rest of the formations here, of the parliamentary groups in Parliament, which have also put forward motions for resolutions. And in this sense, in relation to the proposal submitted for Catalonia in Comú Pode, we are telling them that we will vote for them practically all points, in fact all points, except the last, the new, because it is a false premise. You are defending, at this point in time, at this new point, that the political situation in Catalonia will be unblocked with the formation of a majority of progressive and plurinational governments. So no. Conflict is not going to unlock with the formation of this government, much more. Call concrete mechanisms to make it possible, call concrete spaces to make it possible and, above all, call explicit will to make it possible. It is not that with a progressive government it is resolved and the situation is unlocked. It won't pass with a progressive government because it will. We have seen, in fact, that those actors who would form part of this progressive government, for a band the PSOE, anchor in the last few years in very retrograde positions. Without going further, I feel complicit in the application of 155 here to our country. We have also seen that when, precisely, the same PSOE broke the dialog process, that dialog process that was throughout the Pedralbes process, now a year ago, when that dialog process broke because they trembling the paths before a demonstration of the "trifachito", the parliamentary group's companies or the commons' companies pressed the Republican Left because they lowered the head and voted for the vote, instead of pressing the PSOE because they returned to the dialog. Therefore, there is not enough that this government is now produced between the PSOE, which we see, and between the commons, which we also see. So, no, there's not enough of this. That you are now common within the government, in this government, in this future government, does not in fact shield the resolution of the conflict. A government of progress can be good for the State, but it is no guarantee of a dialog for itself. That is why we have also repeated it many times and today we will take advantage of it to do it again. We are not here to guarantee the stability of anyone or to make the Spanish State work. This is not our mission or vocation, and neither do we. We are here to build a democratic solution, indeed, to the conflict, which is political, between Catalonia and the Spanish State. A conflict that has to be resolved through democracy, so we believe, and that we believe that it has to be resolved through being able to decide which is our future, our future collection. And so we are at this point that there has been this recognition of this conflict, there is now a predisposition to channel it through the political path. And this we have achieved, not thanks to the fact that it is merely a progressive government, but with the strength that the ballot boxes have also given us, with the strength to defend that democracy always wins and that there has been a constant mobilization, and that it follows that there is constant mobilization on the street and the democratic and political will on the tables because that is not just because there is a progressive government. And with regard to the motion for a resolution of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, what do you want me to say, what do you want us to say? We think it's very far away, very far away, honestly, from what I was touching today. They have drafted a motion for a resolution that seems imagined by a notari. It is limited to finding the legislative framework, that the ECJ's judgment is not firm and to promoting an appeal. The problem is not that the feeling is not firm, and that is why it is found that as it is not firm it cannot be applied. That's not the problem with the feeling. Or that's not the problem we find ourselves in. The problem is the political use of the monopoly of law interpretation by an administered organ such as the Central Electoral Board, which wants to impose on what cannot be won by the ballot box. The problem is that the Spanish judicial system, from the Court of Instruction No. 13, and before that it remembered it with the general case, until the Constitutional Court, passing through the Supreme Court or the same Central Electoral Board, without going any further, after yesterday, carries two years of decisions against democracy; against the legality, even even European, as we have seen now with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; against international legislation in the field of civil and political rights; against the institutions and citizens of Catalonia. And you today, here, that you have an opportunity, are unable to denounce it. Obviously, we will be filing appeals before this barbarity, so we need not be told or voted on. But today we are not here to see the need for an appeal, today we come here to defend our institutions, against the attacks of this judicial bailiff on the right and the ultra-right of Spanish nationalism. And, in fact, the same MP Miquel Iceta said, today we come here defending the institutions, but when it's time to put it black on white with a motion for a resolution, so we didn't find it. Therefore, we are concerned about this inability to get out of the comfort zone at the time of defending what are rights, rights of speech, civil and political rights, civil and more basic political rights. For these reasons, we will vote against his motion for a resolution. Not because we don't agree, but because it's insufficient. Today we have not passed this evidence of the quota, which we believe could have taken advantage of as an opportunity, this proof of the quota of defence of the institutions, of the Catalan institutions. They haven't passed the test of democracy's quota. Nor have they passed the test of the defense of civil and political rights. And, therefore, it is all this that we many times, and also today we remember it before we finished, we have reiterated our scepticism before certain commitments of the Socialist Party, in relation also, and above all, to the conflict over the future of Catalonia. Yeah, we're skeptical, but sometimes we think it's worth trying all the opportunities that the context offers us, that it gives us the moment, and we think it's an opportunity, not for Republican Left, we think it's an opportunity for independence and I'm also referring to the UPC. We want to take this opportunity, we don't want to take it away. We've got her now. We will, we will try to make it work, because we believe that it is worth trying to do it, that activating the political path is essential and that this leads, in fact, to deactivating the repressive path, the judicial path, that dialogue and negotiation is what we want to prioritize, of course, but never to the detriment of other democratic lives or to the detriment of mobilization. Before we said it, democratic confrontation when we walk, mobilization in the streets, determination always citizen, with one hand defending it and the other claiming and raising the flag of the dial, that we do not want to give up the flag of the dial, that we have precisely always denounced that we have an empty chair in front. So, now that we've managed to get these chairs filled up in band and band, what we have to do, and I think it's everyone's responsibility, it's to take advantage of it, with a negotiation table between the equals, so between the Government of the Generality and between the Government of the State, where we can talk about everything and everything. Yes, also self-determination, yes, also the fission of repression and amnesty. Yeah, we need to be able to talk about everything, and we've given it to you. We have a clear calendar of iniciaries, so fifteen days after the constitution of the government we set ourselves to work and with a final consultation, as a guarantee of compliments of the agreements. Because there always has to be a democratic validation, because always the word "if you have the streets, you have the people, you have the citizenship in your joint. Not a dispatch, he's not going to lock this up. This will validate it, if it is necessary to validate it, if it is to arrive at an agreement that can be validated, it will, yes, of course, validate the citizenship of Catalonia, as it cannot otherwise be. And for all that, so now, today, what we invite ourselves to do is vote. To vote on these motions for resolutions to defend the President of the Generality, to defend President Tora, to defend the Presidency of the Generality, to defend the institutions, to defend Oriol Junqueras and the Euro MPs. And we will always continue to make the decisions that allow us to move forward, that allow us to reach the independence of our country, that allow us to exercise the right to self-determination, to put, therefore, this repression and judicialization through amnesty. Because, we say again, yes, to put ballot boxes or to shield democracy, because to guarantee freedom of speech, as the President of the Generality did, can never be criminal nor will it ever be criminal. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.85.0	Good night, good night. Many honorable President Torra, President Torrent, advisors, advisers, deputies, deputies, mayors, mayors, we are dissipated 4 of generation, nine of the evening; tomorrow the good kings will pass to the houses. Today we have tabled a joint resolution proposal by the Junts groups for Catalonia, the Republican Left and the CUP. And we're here to reject a resolution of the Central Electoral Board that's a bit of a state in the institutions of Catalonia, because it's anti-democracy and the presidency of the Generality. To reject and say loud and clear that Catalonia is run by Catalans and Catalans, do not run by togues, do not run by the king, do not run by 155, do not run by the Central Electoral Board. Catalonia has Catalans and Catalans with their votes. And that is not what I am saying, that is what the Court of Justice of the European Union has said, which has recognised President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Comín as MEPs for the votes of all of us. And it's that the issue is democracy. A few months ago President Torra, at his conference in Madrid, asked how much democracy he was willing to take on Spain. So very little, very little. And yesterday we had one more proof of this lack of democracy. Spain is a country with a difficult lack of judicial independence, a lack of separation of powers, a political failure to accept the reality of this country Spain, in short, there is a pot among the powers of the State. And before this state, in clear democratic regression, as President Puigdemont said today, today we find ourselves on a historic day – a historic day – in which to defend the dignity of the Presidency of the Generality and defend the institutions of our country. Today's not a day to profile. And we must make ourselves worthy of this day. From our political space, today we plant ourselves to protect the country's highest institution, the presidency of the Generality. Not because he's our president, but because he's the president of all Catalans and Catalans. And this parliamentary group would cost any president of the Generalitat, it was their political position and yet they did not support it. Because defending the institutions of Catalonia and the Presidency of the Generality, after yesterday, is a question of democratic radicality. [[Greetings.]] And it's that those who defend democratic radicalism, beyond sovereignism or independence, today can't profile themselves. Deputy Iceta, a few days ago in an article : « As more PSC, more Catalonia. And we have carefully read his motion for a resolution, a motion for a resolution that speaks, literally, "respects the agreements adopted for the administrative organs, or following the JEC, in the exercise of their competences. The JEC does not have the powers to lay down or remove presidents of the Generality. [[Greetings.]] The competence is of this Parliament. After the illegal application of 155, the illegitimate interference of the Central Electoral Board, we are here to defend the highest institution in this country. And, as you will understand, Junts for Catalonia cannot vote on any of the points that you propose in this resolution. With regard to the proposal for the resolution of the commons, we would vote in favour of most of the points. But we don't agree, and so we can't give support, because when you make reference to the right that represses, we agree, the right represses, is to say, Citizens, PP, Vox, but of the Socialist Party, who filed the complaints? Who said use me for 155? Therefore, we in this sense do not share his point of view that only the right is repressing, but that the Socialist Party also has some difficult responsibilities in which it has spent in this country in the last two years. Since the 21st of September, we have been listening to concepts that we have known by the mouth of our opinions and avies: "exile, "prison, "persecution, "arbitrary arrests in the morning... And now we have not had to listen to us: « disqualification, « immunity, « Euroorder, « German justice, « persecution of mayors and mayors, « suspense of investiture, « citizens accused of terrorism, who after seeing the lack of their capacity... [[Widow's remorse.]] Xit... all this is not normal – it is not normal. And what's normal is what's going on in this country, because what's normal is what's going on in consolidated democracies: before a political conflict, in consolidated democracies, there's a reference to independence. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And Spain... – it's not nervous – Spain is a long way from this, because the government and the people that the U of October made possible have been sentenced to a hundred years in prison only to vote. [[Greetings.]] But let's go back to what President Torra asked in Madrid: how much democracy is he willing to take on Spain? Because pursuing, ceasing and disabling the last three presidents of this country confirms that we are not in a consolidated democracy. We demand the compliment of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union recognizing the Euro MP condition of President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Comín, which is a judgment that resonates with the world, because it recognises the violation of the civil and political rights of the Kingdom of Spain, solely and exclusively, with full freedom, we expect them to see secure to the European Parliament, so that the Catalans and the citizens of Spain voted for it. " On whom does the prosecution depend? Pedro Sánchez said. So we want the prosecution to withdraw the arrest warrants against President Puigdemont and Councillor Comín and released Vice President Junqueras. [[Greetings.]] No excuses – no excuses. Do the ridiculous before the world and tell us – and at least together for Catalonia it is very clear and, I said before, we plant ourselves and we plant ourselves –... the only possible way is the independence of this country. And precisely because we want independence there is a cause against independence, with reprisals and reprisals at the Bureau in Parliament, with its president, Forcadell, engaged, with members of the legitimate government in prison– counselors Turull, Rull, Romeva, Bassa and Forn –, with social activists– Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart – in prison. Also the political persecution with the disqualification of President Mas, Councillors Ortega and Rigau, with the Court of Auditors..., the mayors and mayors also retaliated, the detainees and detainees on 23 September, the reprisals for the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, the reprisals for the Court of Instruction Number 13... All this is the scenario of repression that we have. And before this crackdown scener, we don't stop being independent. Today we demand the fact of being independent and being able to exercise our rights freely. Therefore, we demand the fictitious repression, the recognition of the right to self-determination with this agreement that we ratify in this Parliament in order to make possible the exercise of the right to self-determination, the amnesty of prisoners and prisoners, the free return of exiles and exiles. Out of dignity, out of respect for institutions, out of respect for the citizens of this country, for the past, for the present and for the future, we reject President Quim Torra's attempt to disable him. This is why we call the Central Electoral Board's intention to disable it, because people cannot alter the composition of this Parliament; only the Parliament of Catalonia and its Rules of Procedure are the ones that can alter its composition. And for all this we ratify as a Member of Parliament and President of the Generality the very honorable Quim Torra. Deputies of Esquerra, the CUP, the commons, Junts for Catalonia, but also the deputies of the PSC, the PP and Ciutadans, all and each of you are elected for universal suffrage, free, equal, direct and secret. You're deputies and deputies because people voted for them. That is why I ask you to understand the reason for which we have opened the doors of this Parliament today: to defend the civil and political rights of all the citizens who voted for us. Respect the institutions of this country, respect the Parliament of Catalonia and the Presidency of the Generality. And, as Macià said, President Macià, we are worthy of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposal for a resolution on the agreement of the Central Electoral Board of the 3rd generation of 2020]] [[250-01134/12]] On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Eva Granados. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.87.0	Thank you, President. President, Members, Councillors, Mirin, this debate should have ended with the appearance of President Torra and the interventions of the different chairmen of parliamentary groups. This debate should not have produced, this debate that we are holding now, nor the votes of the resolutions. I believe that once more they twist the Rules and make a forced debate with us; in fact, the companies that have been on the Board of Spokesmen we have had a directly delirious debate: we did not know the resolutions that were to be presented, when they felt that, in relation to what, the votes that have been asked by the groups of Citizens and the People's Party could have felt with this logic, because you did not feel that you had a debate when the debate on what the President wanted was already held. But do you know what's going on? That we already know them, it's been a few years since we've had this dynamic back in our country. And yesterday, when they said that there was an appearance by the president – that they never go with votes – we already started to prepare a motion for a resolution, because we knew that, even if it didn't touch, it would end up forcing the Rules and that we would end up in this debate that we have today. And thank me for listening to Mrs. Vilalta, who does not only make us have this debate on motions for resolutions when they do not touch, but rather tells us what we have to put and what we do not have to put to the motion for resolutions. Miri, let us have what we consider; we have moved our position on this subject, but neither can we stand to be told by the one who touches and the one who does not touch, and more if we have surpassed... – as he has said? –, « the proof of the quota, which has served also President Torra, the proof of the quota of whether we are democrats or not. Look, it's been many years since they told us and we're a little – a little – tired. Mirin, today we are living another episode that will be added to the contempt of our institutions. A few votes after a turnout because you, the independence groups, want to stage an accession to a president who doesn't collect his or her own, and make this forced vote, and we will do it, but it's not his or her own, Mr. Torra. This is the situation. And we don't want to feed the president's independent support strategy. We have said this, the chairman of my group has made it clear: the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the institutions of Catalonia, as we collected them on 6 and 7 September, when you wanted to boost the status; as we also collected them on 27 October and 10 October, and also, as the European Court of Human Rights said, when we avoided the proclamation of the results of that illegal reference, and a feeling, not the answer to a harmful question, a feeling of the European Court of Human Rights said that it was by general interest and respecting our laws that we could not proclaim the results of that illegal reference. Therefore, when we talk about respecting institutions, no one should give lessons to the PSC. [[remorse of the voice]] Because we've always been defending them. And today, you know what? So are the defenses. But we defended the institutions, we did not defend their actions, President Torra. The third thing I wanted to say to you: in the debate on the current scene in Catalonia, but also to the rest of Spain – and today we are seeing in our television pants – we see this entity between sectors that are supporters of the worse, better, in the camp of Spanish nationalism, and also here today in Catalan independence and the right represented by the People's Party and the City, all united in order to prevent any distension, any scenes that go beyond the monologues in which we are installed since then in our country. Some want to attack by land, sea and air... – President Tora also made use of this expression – but I believe that those who are attacking by land, sea and air the existence of a government with a progressive, social and economic program, that fight against inequalities and that open an opportunity for dialogue... And it makes us listen to the virulence of the right..., the Catalan and the Spanish; because here they talk a lot about Vox, but here there is a part of the Catalan, independenceist right, which will add their votes with PP, with Ciutadans and Vox, against a dialogueal, progressive government, representing Pedro Sánchez. [[Greetings and remorse.]] This happens there, but here we also have [[remorse of the voice]] the others – the others – here in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.88.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.89.0	... – and here you seem to be a little divided–, do not want to open a dialog space, an opportunity for the political dialog. The chairman of my group also said so. We all know that many Catalans and Catalans have expressed themselves in favour of the dialect, of a dialect between Catalans and, yes, also of a dialog between Catalan and Spanish institutions. And the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units consider it our political obligation to try. And we also remember what we have at our house: in this Parliament we approved a motion that spoke of a dialectic space, and we also remember that there are parliamentary groups here who do not want to participate in this dialectic space that we have at our house, because it joins this tactical understanding between those who say, as worse, better. Fourthly, the proposal for an independent resolution. You force this House and present a resolution which directly speaks of the general case against independence, the illegal application of 155, of unsecured legal proceedings, between other barbarities appearing in the independence resolution. For us it is the demonstration that we still have a long way to go before we can overcome the conflict that, yes, we have in Catalonia. My group won't find him in this space. My group will find it for the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact, not to disqualify democracy, Spanish democracy. In five places, as Miquel Iceta said, in our opinion – and so we have put it in the resolution – an eventual disqualification of the very honorable President of the Generality can only be derived from a firm court ruling and not from an agreement of the Central Electoral Board. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would be like cheating on the solitaire – which is what you are trying to do – if we do not clearly distinguish, as Miquel Iceta has done, the defense of his act as president – which for us is directly toxic, against the coexistence of Catalans and against the welfare of Catalans – from the defense of the institution, of the institutions that are of all and of all. And you don't defend these institutions, because they use them systematically for their own benefit. Why did you do it, President Torra? You recognized before the High Court of Justice that you disobeyed the instructions of the Electoral Board on the withdrawal that you claimed during the electoral period of the party elements that hung on the balcony of the Generalitat. We denounce the fact that these votes that were to be cast are set up to seek a majority around a president who, in his mouth and in front of the eyes of all Catalans, has disobeyed, making a supporter of the institutions. Mrs. Vilalta used to talk about the right to the free expression, didn't she? So the reports of the General Directorate of Consultancy and Legal Coordination of the Generality – do not say the PSC, do not say..., say its legal services, even the Greuges Syndicate – had written to him that the public institutions do not enjoy the right of speech to freedom of expression proclaimed by article 20 of the Spanish Constitution. This is the main argument that you have served and that is not in place. The High Court of Justice sentenced him for disobedience, with a conviction that included a disqualification for a year and a half. The judgment of the High Court of Justice is not firm yet, which is what you foresee the Statute and the Law of Presidency as a result of ceasing. That was the day, President. We were gathered in the House; he could have come here and addressed us. You didn't take that day, because you know that the main argument you have, that this is about freedom of expression, and your legal services don't give you your argument. What do we say? The decision of the Central Electoral Board can be appealed, and it would be a little cautious that it is effective before the Supreme Court can rule on a possible appeal against the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, since our hearing would give little to an irreversible situation, such as the loss of the status of deputy of an elect who is also the president of the Generality of an autonomous community. This is the content of our resolution. In it we talk about the defense of the institutions, of course. That is why he suggested the possibility for the Bureau to file an appeal in which, moreover, it would be possible to request precautionary measures, consisting in the suspension of the effectiveness of the Central Electoral Board's agreement, pending the resolution of the Supreme Court. On the other hand, Members, today we have listened to the President asking us whether we would be democrats or continue lying; he has told us this, President Torra, he has told us this directly, directly to the Socialists. A president who seems to not know the division of powers, who is only looking at the half of the Catalans and who has more settled in the confrontation and the division. I say to them: lessons, the righteous, the socialists. We ask them to draw this drift. Let no one give up his right of defence or his ideas, but let us also say it: take on the consequences of his actions; also when the firm feeling arrives, because, if we want to preserve and dignify the institutions, we must be strict with what they are and with what they represent. You, the deputies of Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra and the CUP, the Parliament does not have to ratify a president with a resolution that has been presented in hours. In fact, everyone has come here, representing the CUP, from Juntes per Catalunya and d'Esquerra, to say we have to ratify a president. Do you think he's worthy of this? , talking about ratifying a president in a resolution? I mean, how far can we possibly lose this institution, and the institution of the Presidency of the Generality? We cannot reduce the Presidency of the Generality to a motion for a resolution, please; we ask for a little respect and rigour. And I finish and say again: the Central Electoral Board should have inhibited, because the process is being judicialized. This debate should have taken place on the day that he disqualified him – without a firm feeling, but he disqualified him – the High Court of Justice for disobedience. We're complaining that they're forcing a debate to call for support from President Torra. And on top of that, we also report that President Torra is coming, here and some spokespersons, to tell us and to distribute democrats' books. We're in front of a session that's not historical; I think it's dialing time. This is what we want and you continue to install in the confrontation. They will find the socialists in the defense of unity in diversity, in loyalty and in territorial decentralisation; in a Catalonia in a federal Spain; this is our proposal; in a federal and united Europe. This is what we Socialists always defend. Today they coincide, the Congress and Parliament and the photo is between these, the ones that are installed in the conflict, and the ones that we continue where we have always been: law and dialect, law and dialogue and reconciliation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.90.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposal for a position resolution on the agreement of the Central Electoral Board of the 3rd generation of 2020]] [[250-01135/12]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.91.0	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's worth it and it's already done and I think it's worth insisting on contextualizing today's debate; because the femme as we're doing, when we're doing it, and at the time we're doing it. Today's debate is not about President Torra; today's debate is, in effect, about a fact more of the judicialization of politics, of persecution through institutions – still legal, still administrative – of the State, of people instead of resolving the conflict politically; to resolve it through judicial or administrative resolutions. But yes, also – and deny it either – it goes on what is going on in Madrid today. And deny it, we insist, not the door. Or, that the one who passed yesterday to the Central Electoral Board, of which was porter the Lord Married, up yesterday and up with the motius that up, and at the time that up, to try – once more – to make a more torpedo to the flotation line of the possible pact of government that is to constitute in the debate of investiture of these days, is not worth denying it either. And I don't think we're doing ourselves any favors if the progressive forces and we want a change in Catalonia, and we think the change in Catalonia goes, necessarily, through a change in the Spanish State too, I think we can't deny it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Today's debate... as I have time, I can shut up every time I feel soroll, it's what's got thirty minutes ahead of me, today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.92.0	You're right, Congresswoman. Silence, deputies, deputies. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.93.0	Today's debate is, in effect, about the state of law. On how to preserve the institution of the president and the self-government of Catalonia; not on Mr. Torra. President Torra: You are now a Member of Parliament and President of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And there's no resolution from the Central Electoral Board that can avoid it, so that's why the Statute of Catalonia says you can't be disqualified, nor can you stop being president until there's a firm feeling. And I think this is a _mark that, it's that I don't need a resolution proposal, or anything to make it clear, and it's just like how many times I've repeated it to Citizens. You're a deputy and we recognize you as President of the Government of Catalonia. It's true that he's a president that we didn't vote for, he's a president – and we've told him a lot of times, and it's not surprising – that we don't like him. It is true that we believe that Catalonia would be better off with another president and that we would give the battle because that is possible. But we will donate it to the polls, we will donate it to the political camp, we will not donate it either through the electoral board or through a judicial resolution. That is why I want to take advantage of this here, to say to you: President Torra we do not want to be president, but we will give the battle to the polls as a political democratic party we are. Yesterday, the situation that happened to the electoral board is: indeed, a new case of abuse and a new one of the Central Electoral Board's supporters, in this case. From any institution, as we already see, on behalf of Vox, Ciutadans and the People's Party. But this also has to do with a debate that we have had many times here, and it's what justice we have and what justice we have in the Spanish State and what justice we see. And that's not just the political parties, they also say jurists and judicious associations, which take a long time to announce the necessity and urgent reform of the Spanish state's judicial system. Because when the transition was made – and today the investiture debate remembered how quickly some politicians went from being Faixist ministers to being Democrats and MPs – not all judges did. And especially at the top of the judiciary, this transition has not yet taken place. And it is this transition that we are seeing, as the judicial system is now being used to do, through the courts, what is not being achieved through the ballot boxes: to prevent progressive governments, to prevent transformative governments, to prevent people who have been elected – as the deputies who are now – the deputy Junqueras, as President Puigdemont, or as the Antonio Comín, can exercise their functions; it is to use justice to prevent the ballot boxes from being avoided; and this, we believe, is to be denounced. The motion for a resolution which we have here has three main axes. The first is the resolution of the Central Electoral Board, for everything we have already said; because we believe that it has gone beyond its limits; because there is an appeal pending before the Supreme Court; because there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; because the electoral board is not here to take the parliamentary record and to disable a president who has already been chosen in a vote and has been chosen for this Parliament as president. Lawyer Pérez Royo said the same thing today: this cannot be the performance of the maximum guarantee organ of the electoral administration of a state worthy of that name. If this is the body that has to age for electoral neutrality, we really doubt much that it is able to age for this neutrality. But who's the fitter? Or what is the name of the representatives of the Central Electoral Board? Some of them name the parties directly, and others the Supreme Court, which we have already seen what kind of justice and what type of decision the Supreme Court takes. Secondly, and truly denying it serves no purpose, behind this resolution, yes, there is the hand of the right and the extreme right, which they wanted to interfere in the investiture debate with another way to put pressure and prevent this agreement and coalition government from being given. A right that we have every time more responsive, every time more captured by the extreme right, and that believes that the State is his. What use of Deep State, which uses the deep institutions of the State to influence the democratic will of the citizenry, when the citizenry seems to be wrong at the time of voting. A right that fills the mouth of the right state; but that twists and instrumentalizes it to the extreme – and we have seen it – that was Mr. Married who made the spokesman of the Central Electoral Board. An extreme right that fills the mouth of Spain, when in reality they do not like the plural and diverse Spanish of citizens and citizens that has been shown to the later general elections. A right that the only one who wants to be bile, bile and bile, because what they want is to obstruct and block. Who doesn't like this government agreement? It does not please the CEO; it does not please the Episcopal Conference; it does not please those who think that, as worse, better. Who came out to recognize the importance of the agreement? : trade unions, social movements which have been critical of some of the measures of the agreements, but which believe that it is a step forward, that it is a step forward. Because we also insist: this agreement has not been possible without the constant struggle of many social movements in recent years; nor has it been possible. Because probably the PSOE has not moved, in many of the themes on which it has moved in this agreement, and because probably United We Can and In How Can we not have the strength to move the PSOE with this agreement. And denying that there's a window of opportunity here that hasn't been given in the past few years is also denying the possibility of a change. The third point is that we believe that we need to put an end to the judicialization of politics. And today is another sad day, because it's another example of how it's being used. We defend here, in Madrid, Europe and everywhere: what is at stake is effectively the political agreement. What it takes is to move forward with solutions. Today, as much as it bothers Mr Batet that we defend human rights, that we are against repression and that today, for example, Congressman Pablo Iglesias – at the investiture session – has thanked prisoners and political leaders for the management and support they have given and facilitated the configuration of this coalition government... we do not really understand why it bothers him so much. We think they need to focus, and they need to see where the enemies are, and that it doesn't help people to stay alone, you too, in Madrid. [[Greetings.]] And I think that's something you should think about, where it brings you this attitude: to the Mixed Group, in the first place. And then, to vote on who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who's who. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, not now, because they've done, too, those institutional trifles to have a mixed group. We're glad, aren't we? But you, by representation and without alliance with forces like the party of Iñigo Errejón, would not have a similar group. I mean, that's what I need to say, too. Looks like having alliances with the rest of the state is a little useful, sometimes, huh? Mr. Batet, sometimes only, even though it is to recover the electoral grant. O come on, it will not be the most progressive government, perhaps; it will not be the best government of all; many things remain to be done; much remains to be done. We believe that the PSC and the PSOE also need to hear what is the new configuration of majorities in the Congress; that indeed, the proposal for the resolution of today's PSC is probably short, because it finds facts, and finding facts is always good, it is easy. A motion for a resolution does not know whether or not to ratify President Torra; but to find facts, neither, because, I mean, facts are already found, it does not mean that Parliament ratifies them, neither. We believe that we need to move further; we believe that we need to have a lot of political waist. And it will warm us all up; because the majority are who they are, because the investiture will come from one skin – especially if some Members continue to do so, as we have seen today – but it is more than that, then, there will be plenty left to do and there will be some assumptions, and there will be many policies and there will be many things left to approve. Because yes, I do include the repeal of the biting law, the agreement, and we will need a majority to do so. I did include the reform of the Labour Reform Act and improve the reform; yes, I did. It doesn't complete, however, we insist on it, so that's why the majorities are in the Congress; that's why they're here? Or so, that's why there are votes they have together for Cat, that you have Esquerra, that you have the Cup, that you have the Socialist Party..., and I don't count City and PP anymore, because they won't serve for anything else. [[feel a little bit]] in this... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.94.0	All right, Congresswoman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.95.0	I'm sorry, it's time to... [[the laughing orator.]] Good year..., so these votes caldran [[Greetings.]] And to change the 135, so I call a qualified majority to the Congress, which we will hardly have yet, but we can always work and try to advance there. But it looks like the numbers don't give, right now. And by the end of it, because more, I've had my papers and it doesn't really work. [[Strong laughs. Greetings.]] A writer to everyone, seriously, we believe that what is going on in Madrid right now may not be what we all expect; we believe that it is a window of opportunity that is opening up; we believe that it will warm the strength and votes of many people to make all these changes that we are going through; but we also believe that it is the best opportunity that we have had, probably in the past twenty years, to advance in social rights; to advance in freedom and to advance towards a political resolution of the conflict that Catalonia has seen. They did not want to vote a part of the agreement because they say that a progressive and plurinational government is not the guarantee, but it is the best way to make progress on this. It may not be, but what I'm sure is not a government that has President's House, Vice President's House and Interior Minister's Embassy. This one, I'm sure it won't be. So, let's take advantage of the opportunity, move on to the right and work on the changes to the State and the changes to Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Pause.]] It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.97.0	Yes; thank you, President. Good evening or good night, now, deputies and deputies. Well, today we find here another motion for a resolution by the independence parties with more of the same. How many times are we going to have to discuss the right of self - determination here in Parliament? , a right of self-determination that they have already been told as active and passive that Catalonia does not have. How many times are they gonna bring him here? How long will they insist on this subject? So far at the end, now, do you find a president who buys you all the mantras? Well, look, they're congratulations, because they've already found Mr. Sánchez, who's willing to give in to everything, and perhaps Mr. Sánchez, because he does give in to that blackmail, but we don't. [[applause]] They don't insist anymore. They no longer insist, it is good to bring here this proposal day and day also, full yes and full as well. If the Constitutional Court has already warned that this Parliament does not have the power to vote on the right of self-determination! , that I have already lost count of the warnings made by the Constitutional Court, that surely Mr Torrent will be able to clarify this point, because as they have warned him directly so that he will stop bringing here already resolutions that go against the Constitutional Court... It is that it is already well - it is already well! Why does this Parliament not open up to talk about health, or to talk about education, or to talk, for example, about childhood? Because this panel of votes has made it very clear for a while now that this is not of any interest to you at all. Talking here about childhood, no, for what? – For what? – they don't care about this. To talk here about removing the barracks, as proposed by this bill that has been proposed on the agenda, no, that too, that has become very clear that you are not interested in it. And, look, I from the independence parties, because the truth is that I already expected it, but from those who call themselves progressives..., don't see with progressiveism, that the only thing they want to vote and debate here is about Mr. Torra's immunity. It's all right – it's all right! Look, Mr. Torra, whether you like it or not, you're disabled. And since he is disqualified, he no longer meets the requirements of being a Member of Parliament. It's just that it's very easy. And since he is not a deputy – this is a chain – he can no longer be president of the Generalitat. And we can repeat it as often as it takes, until they understand it. [[remorse of the voice]] As you do, let us be repeated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.98.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.99.0	...and repeat us and repeat us... Don't get nervous; I already know that the truths will fade, but don't get nervous, that we have heard them. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Let's see, you have come here today to take advantage of the prerogatives that a president of the Generalitat might have..., which is not the case, because, I insist, Mr. Torra is already disabled. The Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia said so. It's just that you're already convicted, convicted of a crime of disobedience. And then, if you had a minimum of ethics, which is what we expected of you today, because you could neither sign decrees, nor sit in that seat that you are occupying right now, nor call a full, or anything like that. Mr. Torra, you think you're in the extension, but it's the party's over now; acknowledge it once and for all. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, you get to the end of the road... I'd ask, Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.100.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.101.0	...because this is a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.102.0	Quiet everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.103.0	In other words, the lack of respect shown by the Members of the Independence Bank seems to me to be an absolute shame. Then they ask respect for the rest; for let them also keep.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.104.0	I'll follow you when you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.105.0	Thank you. He said that the independence parties arrive at the end of the road as they began: believing that you can skip the laws at your own will, scorning the judiciary, using the institutions as best they can... And above all now you also claim that Mr. Torra continues to hold a position that no longer corresponds to him; a position, moreover, Mr. Torra, recognizes that once and for all, which you never wanted to exercise. If you have told us very clearly, if you do not like the President's suit! You like the CDR suit more, you like to go cut roads, you like to go besiege and applaud those who besiege state infrastructures... That's what you like: the CDR suit, but not the president suit. Don't make us pass through this agony anymore to all Catalans, that's all right. Don't pass it either; if I know you don't like this job! Look, today I could have saved us the brunt of..., and acted with a minimum of dignity and left his post. But no, you have preferred to continue dragging the dignity of this presidency that you embodied until yesterday. But, look, the rule of law has spoken. And I, without offending anyone, would say to you: Mr Torra, neither you nor anyone in this Parliament is the one to try to silence the rule of law. And justice has spoken. And I have heard here this afternoon authentic barbarities and true manipulations of the truth. No, the Central Electoral Board is not disabling anyone. That you have been disqualified from justice, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, out of disobedience, for having used the buildings that are of all as if they were only yours, only independence. A criminal conviction of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. End. And what the election board does is simply decide on the issues that affect you, because you are a public office. There's no more. If you want to turn it around, manipulate it, explain it, say it, put it here in a resolution and we vote it 28,000 times, you do. But that's not going to change the reality, Mr. Torra. And you've been trying to distort reality for a long time, and you've been banging each time with it. Please don't make us pass this calvary any more. Look, you say in your motion for a resolution that you..., that is, this resolution of the electoral board, which is part of a general cause against independence. But what general cause against independence? It's really that, in the end, you have to laugh already, because I don't know if you live in a constant paranoia or what happens to you with those conspiracy theories and how everyone is against you. Look, you have been given an article of the LOREG, of the Organic Law of the Electoral Regime, an article that decides precisely on the situations of an elected office when this elected office is condemned, as you have, for an offence against the public administration, as you have passed to you. This is an article of the law that was passed in 2011; by the way, I insist, driven by Mr Zapatero's Socialist Party, in 2011. In 2011 no one knew you, sincerely, or at least we didn't know you were going to become president of the Generalitat. I know, don't I? How complicated that... how they've done that reform to pursue independence... no, Mr. Torra, no. And, besides, I know that you believe you are the navel of the world, but it is that you are not going to be a pioneer in receiving the application of this article; it is that there was already a mayor in the Canary Islands to whom this article was applied. Therefore, I insist – I insist –, I repeat, you are an effect charge. What law applies to an elected office? The Electoral Regime Act. Who applies the Electoral Regime Act? The election board. It's just that no more or less, Mr. Torra! What's going on, of course, there's no blinder than the one who doesn't want to see. [[Widow's remorse.]] But you don't cheat on anyone; you don't cheat on anyone because you're seen coming miles away now. And we, who have been defending the rights and freedoms of the Catalans you trample on for years, who have done so again today with this plenary session, have not even been able to convene the Permanent Chamber! That you do not pay any attention to what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure! I mean, they did it again here today. And I also insist that it was us, and we do it alone, because I am so sorry, but the Socialist Party has been dedicated to looking elsewhere for decades. These days they were talking about the Socialist Party being the new friend of the independenceists. Well, again, nothing; again, nothing, because they've been looking away for years and looking at the barbarities that you were doing in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Years, looking the other way– years, huh? They made it more disguised and now, therefore, they already do so, with their breasts uncovered. But it was we who brought you to justice. And it is also that we warned you first, Mr Torra; I lost count of the times we told you here to do the favor of respecting the institutions of all Catalans, that that was going to have consequences, that we were also in the middle of the electoral period. And you there with the tie, the banner, the photo of the candidates, who did it there with ease and well, and didn't pay any attention. The prosecution complained, the trial came, and you, I insist, taking out the chest, boasting of how he disobeyed and how he ignored and the pulse he was making to the rule of law. But what did you expect, what did you expect, Mr. Torra, to happen? It was you who pleaded guilty there. What did you expect? Hey, miracles to Lourdes, honestly. It's just now it looks like that sentence, oh! It's all a stroke and a horror, what they're doing to him. But, honestly, what did you expect? I, to see if you can answer me, because above – above – you have had the defachacy of making us come here on a Saturday..., that I do not care and my colleagues neither, but, I insist, the staff of this Parliament, the journalists who are here almost at ten o'clock in the night because you have been eager to convene a plenary to come and release your rally, and then you have not even had the shame of responding to parliamentary groups! It's just that it's a shame, Mr. Torra – it's a shame. [[Greetings.]] It's a shame. A proposal, moreover, in which you speak of a coup d'état. It's just that this is so funny: that you guys talk about a coup d'état after what we had to live here. [[applause]] On September 6th and 7th, so they have been condemned, condemned in a final sentence, it is..., well, I don't laugh at how sad it is – at how sad it is, Mr. Torra. [[Widow's remorse.]] How do you have the defiance of speaking and teaching here about coups d'état?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.106.0	Silence, deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.107.0	Yes, yes..., no, of course, if they're nervous...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.108.0	Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.109.0	I insist that the truths already know that they hurt and that there is a sentence, there is a sentence – firmly, by the way – of the Supreme Court, which clearly says that you missed legality on September 6 and 7. And on top of that I see that they intend to continue doing so, because what they have brought here is certainly the continuation of this coup. A sentence that, as you did not like, because you also took the leave to scare a lot of Catalans here. You believe, I insist, that Catalonia is yours, that you can do whatever you want and that, if a sentence doesn't like, you go out here and tell people to burn containers and terrorize Catalans. That's what you've been doing in the last few months. And you don't have enough with that, that today you come here to release the rally and to complain about that sentence so evil, so evil, because you disobeyed, when everyone saw you making a chicken with that disobedience. I don't know. I don't know, it really seemed like an aberration to me, what's going on here. But, well, look, we stayed here today, in this plenary, we came to this plenary because we wanted to hear what you had to say, that I already tell you that you came forward with something else, but no, you are still Mr Torra and behaved like Mr Torra; but we also wanted to listen to the rest of the political groups, because we have respect – which you have shown you did not have, by not even answering us – and we have the parliamentary height that you have never shown in this chamber. I insist: you summon a plenary, you bring us all, you speak twenty_minutes, you let go of your parliamentary meeting, and it is that neither – well, "parliamentary: party – nor answer us. But, well, honestly, I appeal to the Socialist Party again, I insist that with these gentlemen you can not even go around the corner, and I refer to the facts that are happening already in recent years; it is that it is no longer just today, it is day yes, day also and day also in recent years. But, of course – of course – when one reads the Socialist Party proposal, we already imagine where the shots go. That is, you bring a motion for a resolution calling for the Catalan Parliament to join the appeal to defend Torra before the Central Electoral Board. This... have you read this well? I mean, what have you put here, in this point 3 of the resolution, you have seen here? That is, you, with this motion for a resolution, are delegitimizing the institutions of the State. Today it is seen that he has touched the Central Electoral Board; the other day he was with the State's Advocate, and in fact there where Mr. Sánchez goes seems to not grow the grass, because it is that you are charged and discredit and delegitimize all the institutions of the State. Today it's up to the JEC – today it's up to the JEC. [[Greetings.]] Look, Mr. Iceta, you came out here, to this rostrum, to say that you came to defend the Catalan institutions. But, of course, no; no, because that is not what it puts in this motion for a resolution. Here, in this motion for a resolution, you attack the Central Electoral Board. For what? – For what? To save Mr. Torra's face. And you're recidivist, Mr. Iceta: you've already saved your face in the motion of censure and done it again today. [[applause]] with this fraudulent plenary that Mr Torrent has convened, at the request of Mr Torra. Second time; second time, and it seems to me to see what we have left, because we are concerned about all the negotiations that you are conducting. I insist again on the subject, and I will say this whenever necessary: the Central Electoral Board establishes the electoral consequence of a criminal conviction, it does not disqualify anyone from the Central Electoral Board. It is the justice, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, that disqualifies Mr. Torra for disobedience, for disobedience, not the Central Electoral Board. Stop trying to fool and manipulate the people who are listening to us, please! The electoral consequence of the conviction, no more or less, because this gentleman is an elected office or was an elected office until yesterday, and he has lost his status as a deputy precisely because he has committed a crime against the public administration. But, of course – but, of course – you, as always, for here whitening the independenceists. You also tell us, even... that is, you have come to say that the Bureau is filing an appeal to defend this gentleman for his disobedience. What's going on? That we have to pay the Catalans for this gentleman's defense? [[Greetings.]] Do we have to pay all Catalans for Mr. Torra's chops? That Mr. Torra goes out there with his banner and his bow, on the balcony, we have to pay all Catalans? Or how's it going? It is already the height of defachability, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. I also insist that this reform of the LOREG is a reform of the Socialist Party, which was pushed by Mr Zapatero, by the way, with the support of Convergence, which is seen as not so serious at the time. [[Greetings.]] Of course, as it did not concern you..., as it did not concern you... But it is that, fix yourself, a law, moreover, that was made, precisely, to restore confidence in the institutions. Look, I'm gonna read them... The Constitutional Court says, and this has been endorsed by the Supreme Court, says : "Few doubts can arise with regard to the need for public managers to enjoy the trust and respect of the people. For this it is necessary a certain ejem..., example..., exemplary... [[remorse of the voice]] – exemplaryness, at one hour the language is blocked –, "a certain social exemplaryness to whom any public function exercises. More intensely, it must be done with regard to those posts whose role is precisely to represent citizens, to act directly in public affairs. We were talking about a gentleman who until yesterday was the president of all Catalans. I think, if anyone had to come up with the example here, Mr. Torra, that was you. And we ask the Socialist Party gentlemen to stop laundering Mr Torra's illegal actions, to stop laundering a gentleman who went there to boast before the courts saying that he had disobeyed and that he was guilty, and that now you, with the money of all Catalans, are claiming to pay him an appeal. That's all right; that's all right, Mr. Iceta, that's all right. [[Greetings.]] That's all right. If you really want to defend the Catalan institutions, as you have come here to say a few hours ago, then please defend them and stop defending this gentleman, who does what he does is to attack precisely the Catalan institutions and all those that stand ahead of him. Look, I, in those ten or twelve meetings that you have held – ten or twelve, because I don't know, I've lost count, you've met so many times – with Republican Left, I want to ask you: What have you been talking about? Have they been negotiating government formation? But have they also been negotiating a possible tripartite? Because when you hear them talking... me, what do you want me to tell you? A tripartite for here, for Catalonia. Because I don't know if there, in those meetings, you shared the argument. It is very curious how Mr. Junqueras, a few days ago, when the State Advocate referred to the Central Electoral Board, said: "Uy, the Central Electoral Board is not competent. And I know that Mrs Lastra has also used the same argument. And it should be noted, Mr.Iceta, that you, when you came here, have also questioned that competence of the Central Electoral Board, as well as your members of the Republican Left, who have again repeated this same argument here in this rostrum. It is quite clear the tune you have with Esquerra Republicana and those who do not content themselves with having given a coup on September 6 and 7, but want to return to it, here, to repeat. I insist and ask you whether all this which you are negotiating and all this attitude of whitening of Mr Torra and of allowing what has been allowed here today obeys a possible tripartite Socialist Party with Republican Left and we will see if with the commons. Look, Mr. Iceta, ruling with these gentlemen is a barbarity. And I ask you, how are you going to look at so many Catalan socialists, knowing you're going to sell them, knowing you're going to betray them? With how bad we're going by the constitutionalists in Catalonia. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] How are you going to explain to the voters of your own party, to the voters of your own party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.110.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.111.0	...the voters of your own party, which you prefer to put on Mr. Torra's side instead of the constitutionalists' side? , a Mr Torra who, day and day, is also dedicated to attacking those Catalan constitutionalists, who, of course, are Catalans, but who are also Spanish and are very proud of it. How are you going to explain it to him, Mr. Torra... Iceta? How are you going to explain it to him? [[Widow's remorse.]] I am already confused, because, as they say, in the end one already binds. [[Greetings.]] Look, what's going on here is anything – anything – less normal. [[Widow's remorse.]] I think the only one who can think of doing these things... [[Greetings.]] Oh, how happy! What a euphoria! What a euphoria! What a euphoria! What a euphoria! You'll see the euphoria coming in...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.112.0	Silences – silences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.113.0	...when he is told that he is no longer a Member or President of Parliament..., of the Generalitat. They're going to get a euphoria... [[Greetings.]] They're going to get a euphoria that my mother! Anyway, I think this could only have happened to you, Mr. Torra. You plead guilty and then appeal a sentence that pleads you guilty. Everything very normal and everything very simple. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] I'm going to go on with the... oh, my God, what a riot! You're interested in my intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.114.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.115.0	I like it. Thank you. [[Rialles.]] Look, the common ones. I am going to the motion for a resolution from Catalonia in Comú, which, of course, are not disappointed, and what they have come to do here, therefore, is to do what they always do: come to reinforce the lies of independence, of separatism. What you always do. So, there are a number of points here. I'll start with the first one. And you, too, make the mistake, at this point, of saying, therefore, that the electoral board is not competent because it cannot adopt the disqualification resolution of President Torra and Mr Oriol Junqueras. I repeat it again for the umpteenth time, to see if it is clear to us: it is not the Central Electoral Board that decides on the disqualification of Mr. Torra, it is the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. And I, according to what you put here, believe that in your party either you have a problem with the basic nations of law or a problem with reality, that I don't know what's worse, Mrs Segovia. [[Greetings.]] You here lie deliberately. [[Widow's remorse.]] And besides, they omit, they omit important issues. For example, point 2; this was the first, point 2. They say here that we have filed an appeal..., that the electoral board resolves an appeal that we have filed, that uses a precept that is thought, he says, for cases of terrorism and corruption. Let's see if we can understand. Since not reading, because I see you haven't read it, let's see, if when I read it to you, you understand. Article 6.2(b) of the LOREG, that reform promoted by the Socialist Party, says: "Those sentenced by sentence, even if it is not firm – also for those who argued here that the sentence is not firm –, "convicted for crimes of rebellion, terrorism, against the public administration or against the institutions of the State when it has established the penalty of disqualification for the exercise of the right to passive suffrage or of absolute or special disqualification or of suspension for employment or public office under the terms provided for in the criminal law. We are going exactly the case of Mr Torra, no more nor less – no more nor less. [[Greetings.]] And as I see they keep saying that not with their heads, that is, not only a problem of reading comprehension, but also hearing, I explain it again – I explain it again. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Torra... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, look, I'm telling you very easily, Mrs. Segovia. You see, you'll see you'll understand now. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.116.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.117.0	Look, Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.118.0	A moment, a moment, a deputy; a moment – a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.119.0	... committed a crime of disobedience. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'm not saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.120.0	Deputy, deputy, a moment, a moment. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.121.0	Well, stop the earring; it's not happening. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I'm going with the argument. Okay. Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.122.0	Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.123.0	... committed a crime of disobedience. Why do I say that? No, that too, but no. [[Widow's remorse.]] Does my group say so? No; it is said by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which is the judge of these crimes and has sentenced this gentleman for a crime of disobedience. It turns out that the offences of disobedience are crimes considered against the public administration, which puts it here, "those convicted of offences against the public administration, which is their case, who carry a sentence of disqualification. Eighteen months that have fallen to Mr. Torra of disqualification. What part do you not understand, Mrs Segovia? [[Greetings.]] What part doesn't understand? I mean, honestly, you have to be kind of desperate to try to put things that aren't in these resolutions. Don't make it up. If you don't like LOREG, I think it's fine, but reform it, don't invent it. It's just that I think it's very clear. In fact, I know, read you two points at the moment, there are nine. I dare say... I don't know if you're going to give me time to degenerate everyone, but I dare say that this is a full nine, that you haven't given one, but not one in this resolution. [[Greetings.]] Not one. And right. Look, point 3; I'm still point 3. He says that you, that there is a..., that the Parliament of Catalonia states that the resolution of the Central Electoral Board violates the Statute of autonomy, follows a little more, and says: "Because there is a final ruling pending from the Constitutional Court. Of course, this comes because they have not understood the article... Because it makes it clear: « Those sentenced by sentence, even if it is not firm, which is the case... [[Greetings.]] Of course, all part of the same mistake, Mrs Segovia. I get it. Of course, this is a consequence..., they have not understood the first point and from there already, this has been a misconception, one after another – one after another. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's see if I'm still... there's more dots, huh? , there are more points, because... let's see, the 4; I'm still with the 4, the next. He says... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yes! Yes, again here again, the election board cannot disqualify Mr Oriol Junqueras as a deputy. Same mistake again. If it is clear, if it is that you, as you have not understood the article of the LOREG, we have here a serious problem. And I think maybe... I don't know where you guys were on September 6th and 7th. I don't know if they realized what happened in this Parliament. [[rieals and the sounds of the background]] And that Mr. Oriol Junqueras... Well it seems not, Mrs. Ribas, because Mr. Oriol Junqueras has been convicted of sedition and embezzlement for what happened here in September 2017. And that is why Mr Junqueras is in the situation he is in, not because he says it again by the Central Electoral Board, which does not deal with these issues, nor does he want to deal with them. I'm going to go on, I'm running out of time. I'm telling you, this is a full nine. [[Widow's remorse.]] For example, the point... Oh! , point 7, that this is so funny, I've marked it. [[Rialles.]] It says: "Considers that the resolution of the Central Electoral Board, for the moment and form, is part of the right and extreme right strategy to interfere [[some applause]] - Eye! – « in the debate of investiture being held by the Congress of Deputies. Translation of all this. It turns out that now the Central Electoral Board has to comply with the terms of the investiture that Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias mark, to the good of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. We are not here... that is, the calendar of the Central Electoral Board, the calendar of justice and the one that will come to you depends on the whims of Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias. Of course... Well, Mr. Iglesias, who today said Paul Iglesias that they do not doubt the democratic conviction of the authors of the coup of the 6th and 7th. So often democrats – often democrats. [[Greetings.]] Authors of a coup, democratic convictions. It's a trachea – it's a trachea. Look, I'm gonna be done now because, honestly... [[Rialles, remorse and applause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.124.0	Deputies!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.125.0	Look, I already know you guys wanted to come here and listen to the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.126.0	Deputies, calm down everyone. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.127.0	I know you wanted to come here to hear Mr. Torra's speech/meeting and then go home, but no, here we come to work. Since you have convened a plenary session, you have missed all the possible legality that you have, and because you have, entered motions for resolutions, because at least listen to Members, I say, go, I say. We, in Citizens, have the bad habit of working, of working for the interests of all [[remorse of the voice]] Catalans and not like you do. And that is precisely what we are going to continue to do: we are going to remain firm as the referents of constitutionalism in Catalonia, because we are always going to defend the interests of all Catalans, Mr Torra, of all Catalans. And in the face of this new outrage that has been committed here today to the rights of Catalans, in the face of this new barbarity, of course – of course – we were not going to silence ourselves, if that is what you expected. And we will continue to fight tirelessly in the defense of the democratic state. I ask you, Mr. Torra: come back to reality. Because you, I insist, are condemned, disqualified, not a deputy or president of the Generalitat. And the sooner you understand, the better it'll be for all of us. Not by repeating much a lie this ends up becoming reality. I, of course, even though we wanted, as I said, to hear the opinions of the rest of the groups, to express ours too, because I think it was essential to defend all those Catalans to whom no one else defends, because we have already seen, therefore, the attitude of the Socialist Party, we wanted to participate in this plenary, but what we are not going to do, of course, is to participate in votes that again violate the Constitutional Court, that again despise the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and that also delegitimize the Central Electoral Board. And as a last point, and since this debate coincided with the debate of investiture in Congress, I, as an autonomous deputy, but also as a Spanish citizen, want to make a request from this rostrum to Mr Sánchez. I would like to ask Mr Sánchez to look carefully at the speeches that have taken place here today in this plenary; to listen to what we have had to hear today from those partners with whom Mr Sánchez intends to agree; to listen to what Mr Sánchez has said here; to listen to what Mr Sánchez has met up to ten and twelve times, such as, for example, Mrs Marta Vilalta, who has been in charge of coming here to defend the position of his group and also to agree on this agreement with Mr Sánchez; to listen to the barbarities that have been said here in this plenary by those people with whom Mr Sánchez is negotiating every day, because they have once again repeated their reticence of lies and insults to our democracy, to our institutions and ultimately to our country; to speak here again of Spain as if this country were a dictatorship; to reject our democracy, and to reject the sovereignty of the Spanish people as a whole. So I want to ask Mr Sánchez to listen carefully today to these speeches, to think that there is life beyond his investiture, with those enemies declared to be of our democracy, with the gentlemen of the Republican Left and with the gentlemen who are here today defending impunity, I think it is already Mr Torra's. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is clear that this country will survive its government. And don't doubt it, don't doubt it, that's how it's going to be. But we Spaniards do not deserve those who systematically despise us to condition our government, neither here, Mr.Iceta, nor there – to Mr.Sánchez I tell you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.128.0	To finish has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.129.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I would like to begin by justifying why, at the beginning of this plenary session, we have proposed the extension of the agenda with the processing of a bill, just as the Citizens' Group has done. Many times we have the feeling that you are already going to Parliament to talk about your problems when you let go of the problems of many Catalans. And today we wanted to make it clear, today we wanted to make it clear. You have come here today to talk about your problems, but they are not interested in the problems of Catalans. They are not interested, for example, in the problems of the twenty-thousand-year-olds who are studying in barracks, they are not interested in the safety problems of children's parks, they are not interested in the problems of the Pallars' lives. They will know when they cut down their carts, they are not interested in the problems of sixty-five towns in Tarragona that have gone waterless. You call the House to talk about your problems, which are not the problems of the city council of Catalonia. We have read carefully the three motions for resolutions that you bring us here today; we have to say that the first, that of the groups that support the government, all the three groups that support the government – after that we can add, four – is based, basically, on falsehoods. I've counted only, I've counted only – and generous, eh? , is to say, restrictively – the falsehoods that appear in the agreements, and I have not counted. Ms. Roldán: "Plenary at 9. No, full at 10. We didn't count on it. And that's what I'd like to explain to you in this intervention. At first, like it's been so much, so maybe we'll give him a different touch. Indeed, the Central Electoral Board does not disqualify anyone; nor does the President. You know why, president, because you were disqualified on your own. [[Widow's remorse.]] You don't need anyone to be disabled, you've been disabled. What? Listen to me, so look, March 11th, the Central Electoral Board tells him that the Palau de la Generalitat is not his home, it is the home of all Catalans and that, therefore, it must be free of party propaganda. And you go to a friend who gets them to take the chestnuts out of the fire, and who gives them some credibility, "go, I go to the Synod of Greuges, who gives me the right. And you go to the syndic of Greuges and, miri, the syndic of Greuges, on this occasion, does not give him the reason and says to him: "President, you pay attention to what the Central Electoral Board sends him. That was the 15th of March, when the Synod of Greuges gave it to him, he had already said it before, and then he had him say it in writing. You went unobedient until March 18th; then on March 18th you will demand it again, again disobey. It's the election board's nriu. Now I'm going to go through the groceries, and I'm going to put one in white, because the resolution says "groceries," doesn't say "white," I don't know what... And in the end, he took it off on March 22, when the Mossos already had the instruction. I'll be back in October. And then, in November, you went to the High Court of Justice to say: "I clearly did not comply with the decision, nor could I have done it, as the President. What do you mean? , that you as president before justice have a different status than we have the rest of Catalans? Do you have a different deal for being president before justice? Do they sound like we're all the same before the law? All of it. Even the President of the Generality; we're all the same before the law, President. And you went to the court to say, "No, no, I don't; I don't sound like you. I'm the president, and so I'm out of your league. I am a member of the Electoral Board and I have the right to make these decisions. Therefore, you knew perfectly well that you would end up feeling disabled. You knew that, because you went acting, precisely, to get to this moment. Surely, what you didn't expect is for the moment to come. You certainly had it calculated because you arrived at a certain other time, but, no, look, you have arrived at it now, you have arrived at it now with the sentence, with the first sentence of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and without arriving in time the appeal to the Supreme Court. This is the first lie, isn't it? , that of assigning to the Central Electoral Board the disqualification of the President of the Generality. But there are more lies, or, at least, we understand that. Put in a motion for a resolution that the Parliament of Catalonia ratifies as deputy Joaquim Torra, the president of the Generality, you can be satisfied, but you know that this has absolutely no legal value, because if you are a deputy it is not because I ratified it the Parliament of Catalonia, it is that you have usually competed in some elections and, therefore, the Central Electoral Board issues some acts in which you say that you are a deputy. The same electoral board that at some point says: "Listen, therefore, look, you are not a member now because you do not meet the requirements, which is what the electoral board has done now. Just as you hold the actions, you take the actions if they don't complete the electoral laws, don't you? Therefore, you can ratify what you want as Members, who are Members of Parliament, yes or no, you can ratify what you want, but you have absolutely no legal value. Third falsehood..., and here I also take advantage of the motion for a resolution by Podemos and the Socialist Party, because it is common, right? , that of the groups supporting the Government, says : « The legal framework applicable to the President of the Generality is only the Law of Presidency and the Regulation. No, lying. The President of the Generality does not have a..., yes, obviously, he has an institutional status that we absolutely recognize, but before the law is exactly the same as everyone else, and, therefore, the President of the Generality is also a member of the Law of the Presidency, the Rules of Parliament, but also of the State, also of the Constitution, also of the Electoral Law. Therefore, they do not ignore the Electoral Law. The Organic Law of Electoral Regime, which has the same legislative rank as the State itself, the Organic Law; exactly it has the same rank. Therefore, they do not ignore the election law. Fake fourth. They refer to Puigdemont and Comín as Euro MPs in compliment to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Oh, man! So they'll explain to me what they read because I've read it and nowhere does it talk about Comin or Puigdemont, nowhere. But let me just say, if they are, if they are, as the President's Counsellor says, they must be committing an electoral crime, because they continue to be Members of the Parliament of Catalonia and have not given up their eschode, and they are incompatible. [[remorse of the voice]] They're incompatible charges. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Because they're not. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because they're not rigorously, rigorously... yeah, yeah, all rigor isn't pathetic. The rigor is what I ask you, that I am telling you the falsehoods that you have expressed in a motion for a resolution. They also refer to Junqueras, he says: "The Court of Justice of the European Union says that Junqueras is a Euro MP. No, the Court of Justice of the European Union says that Oriol Junqueras had a right to immunity at a certain time, does not say that he is now an MEP. Therefore, rigor, effectively, rigor, senor Puigneró, rigor. Then they go on..., then they go on with their proposal, they say..., listen, it's as far as they're concerned that there's a systemic negative from the Attorney General and the state's attorney to withdraw the arrest warrants. Ah! But if the arrest warrants that dictates them and withdraws them are the judgments. Neither the Attorney General nor the Attorney General of the State, what do they want to see? Ah! But it's like the partners are good now because they need their votes, just like the state's attorney and attorney, so they can admit according to what instructions to do according to what you're interested in. But they do not lie, neither the Attorney General's Office nor the Attorney General of the State can withdraw the arrest warrants, because it dictates them and removes them from the investigating court, not these bodies. Keep going. They're talking about the general cause against independence. It has been said several times, they know perfectly well that there is no general case against independence, there is the judgment of people who do things that are illegal, and that are qualified as criminal and that courts judge; and that in some cases they condemn, and in others they may not condemn, but in some cases they condemn. And if they condemn it, it's because they think it's proven that there's been a crime. And that's what we're talking about, we're not talking about a general cause against independence. Keep going. You keep talking about repression, we haven't talked many times either. There has been no repression, in any case – and we say it recently in a ple – those that we can talk about repression are all those Catalans that we feel absolutely ignored by this government. Yeah, because we feel repressed for this government that doesn't even need the city of Catalonia, and it does a couple of fulls, so we did a bunch of regulars. There's no repression and you know it perfectly well. « Recognition of the right to self-determination. We're-there, another time, come on, there's not enough. President Torra, given a class of what is the right to self-determination, as you did in 2012, which said that it did not exist and is not recognized at all. Explain it to them in private, don't you think there are communication means, that you don't blame them, and you explain it to them. Listen to me, it's that this right to self-determination isn't recognized at all... And he's not recognizable. Well, it's recognized for colonies, but, go on, I've looked at the list of colonies recognized for the United Nations and I haven't seen Catalonia. I didn't find him. Because we're not a colony. How do you want to be a colony, if an important part of the government, a significant part of your parliamentary groups participates in the governance of Spain? This isn't between the colonies, this isn't between the colonies. Home, and those who say they're... well, I let it be. Keep going. And continue... and continue with the subject of prisoners' amnesty. Well, amnesty, will you explain to us where you're recognizable in our legal order that you can make an amnesty for the prisoner? Hey, what about the five criteria? Why do I suppose it has to be a political criterion, right? You decide which prisoners you're in and which prisoners you're not in. I think I haven't mentioned God, maybe I've unaccounted for myself and I haven't mentioned any more; it's possible, because there are so many, falsehoods, that I can have unaccounted for, right? Therefore, President, you gave us either democrats or liars. Look, I, like at least, lying don't feel like I'm more of a democrat, so you'll know who the liars are. And I end up positioning us on Podemos's proposal, and I think I've already commented on some of the aspects of this... to assume this mark... but, well, neither does it weird us, we know you're starting a pinion with the Government of the Generality. They'll push their taxes, whatever you want and what you want, and they're breaking a pine tree, and so they can't make you angry, so you're perfectly assuming your thesis, and you're delighted to know each other and that Mr. Churches and the Galapagar clan are coming to the ministry. Listen, very, very flattering. Listen, we're gonna take some sleeping pills, which we think is what they're supposed to do, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And we are more concerned about the position of the Socialist Party, because they also take this speech from the separatist groups, not only congratulating the year, Mr. Iceta, that I think it was very unfortunate his happiness of the new year that he went to Twitter, directly assuming the theses of the independent groups... Because, look, if we all fold... – I'm not convinced–, all folds can come to hear this from the distension, that of overcoming the monologue, that of..., to the point of the dialogue, that is, we need to get out of this situation. We're a lot of Catalans – a lot of independents and not independents, huh? – that we are tired of this situation, that we are tired of this debate, that we are tired of this tension; in many, in many. But think of one thing, the solution won't come from outside, because the problem we don't have outside, the problem we have here. And do you know what the problem is? The government's meal of loyalty and the president's meal of loyalty. And they will say to me, « Lack of loyalty, with whom? So look, I won't quote them... - I could do it, huh? – I will not quote them either with the State, nor with the Constitution, nor with this very Parliament, no, no; lack of loyalty to the assembly of the Catalan society, more than the half of which they feel dismayed and feel as an orphan of government and president of the Generality. I believe very sincerely that I deserve to give a fall to the strategy that you are using and trying to find solutions, I insist, not out of here, because the solutions have to get out of here. Recordin: It's not all going to get to rule at any price. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.130.0	After the debate, we will proceed to the vote on the three motions for resolutions... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.131.0	Of Catalonia's motion for a resolution in Comú Puem, we would like to ask for a separate vote on point 7 and point 9, which can be voted together, and point 6, apart from the rest of the PR.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.132.0	All right. Thank you. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.133.0	Well, in the commons, we ask for 6, 8 and 9, which could be voted together, but I see that it will not be possible to do so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.134.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.135.0	Yeah. From the joint motion for a resolution by Junts for Cat, Grup Republicà and the CUP, we would call for a separate vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.136.0	I'm sorry, about the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.137.0	U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.138.0	U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.139.0	Separately, point 9 of the PR of commons, which I understand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.140.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.141.0	...probably seven, eight and nine will be separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.142.0	...is to vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.143.0	Hello?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-04-4701.144.0	Yeah, yeah. All right. So let's get to the vote. We shall vote first on the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Pause.]] We shall vote, therefore, on the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the Republican and Junt parliamentary groups for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. A separate vote has been requested on point 1 of this motion for a resolution. Therefore, we vote on this point. The vote begins. Point 1 of this motion for a resolution was approved by 74 votes to 21, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The remainder of the proposal for a joint resolution of the Republican and Junts parliamentary groups for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has been approved by 67 votes in favour, 21 against and 7 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] We then proceed to the vote on the Motion for a resolution on the agreement of the three-generation Central Electoral Board of 2020, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In this case, no separate vote has been requested; therefore, we are voting on the joint motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 24 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. And we now vote on point 6 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote on Point 6 begins. This point was approved by 87 votes to four, with four abstentions. And now we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 35 votes to 41, with 19 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 90 votes in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting point number 9 – point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 24 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puermos was adopted by 74 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. There is no more point in the order of the day; the session rises. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
