ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. I'm telling you, I'm going to vagrant the correspondents, and we're going to start the session. I remind you that the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. I, in accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, will be substantiated this morning, as the first point of the order of the day. So, I'm guessing that the Bureau and the Spokesman's Board that we had yesterday on Tuesday, we agreed to include as points of the order of the day the reading of the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the Day of Disruption by Deficit of Attention with hyperactivity, and the appearance of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, in place of the President of the Generality, before the Plenary, to report on the later measures taken to contain the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19. These two points will be based on the end of the government's control session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before proceeding to the order of the day, however, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately on the 2nd of August she died murdered in Sabadell, Yolanda, the desena victim per viència de genere in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and old age for its record. In accordance with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence to suspend the plenary session today at midday, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Next, and in compliments to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020, there have been 783 dead and missing victims, to the Mediterranean. Let's continue, now, with the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions to the government. [[Question to the Government is about the impact of the crisis on culture and the consequences for workers in this sector]] [[310-00408/12]] And the first question is about the impact of the crisis on culture and the consequences for the workers in this sector. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.2.0	Good morning to all; good morning, Counselor. It is public and aware that the sector of culture and, concretely, the workers and workers of culture are patenting the consequences of the health crisis. And it is also public and noticing that there is a deep discomfort in the sector. It was shown with mobilizations on the street, which have already been done. And mobilizations that will come. There's dissatisfaction, there's discomfort. And there is discomfort because the cultural workers and their workers do not arrive at the end of the month. And why don't they arrive at the end of the month? Because all the help, subsidies and support lines that have been opened, from the Government of the Generality, from its council, are not coming directly to the workers and workers of culture. But I've said it many times before, I've said it many times: rain on mule. We are talking about a sector that is structurally pre-characterized, with a number of bad practices at the time of contracting, and also by the administrations and joint ventures of this country. Also, with an intermittent department, as is intermittent the work of the workers and workers of culture. Three years, three councils. Ms. Laura Borràs left her responsibilities in the Department of Culture, to go to Madrid. The last healthy between the government, brought the councillor Vilallonga out of the department. And today, you're taking a very difficult situation. And we want to ask him, counselor: what is the strategy of the council to make the workers and workers of culture not the main problems of the crisis we are experiencing? And especially, those that are focused on the performing and musical arts?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Culture Advisor, Mrs. Ángels Ponsa, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.4.0	Thank you, President. Member, as you know and know why, so, I had the opportunity to explain it to the entire Committee on Culture, in my voluntary appearance; we are sensitive – very sensitive – to the situation that cultural workers and workers are going through and to the sector of culture in general. I'm sure it rained on a mule. Dious passed, therefore, the nine health measures, a part of the culture sector, the part of the stage, of the performing and musical arts and also of the cinema, had to stop its activity. But that's why, so, we've allocated resources, we've been at your side since the first moment. You said I'd get together with all of them so that I could do some help that was his most, so to speak... need, or continue, to collect the needs they had. These aids were approved yesterday to the Government, or so, what we can say, I believe, is that we have been with a very zealous response, because that was what you said and then we approved these measures. They are, these 17,200,000 euros that, in any case, I will then go into detail.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.6.0	Counselor, you're talking about celerity, but we're not in March. We're in November. And the workers of culture are wearing this crisis long ago. I cannot speak of celerity, when, today, three_of_each_four musicians in action, during 2019, have experienced a reduction of more than 90_percent of their activity. And only two of you have been able to embrace the special measures promoted by the government. We detect on the basis of the data that you give us from the department, that they cover the companies, but they do not cover the workers. Therefore, we ask for direct help for all workers. Full payment of all cancelled shows. And that is put into operation the interdepartmental work table of the workers of culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman; your time is up. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.8.0	Just of these 17_millions that I now want to detail– 17.200.000_euro– as they went: 3.700.000_euros go to compensate for the losses of cancellation of cultural shows and activities; 4.700.000_euros, to give support to the financing of the operating expenses of the companies and cultural entities; because, if the companies work, the workers also cover. They are intended for self-employed workers; for businesses in the form of physical persons, both physical and legal, and for private entities without a desire to work. Because here we also have the whole field of popular culture, which you sometimes forget, but which forms part of the conjunction of ateneus and all the centers that give a lot of cultural activity and also work in the country. These companies, as I have said, are still performing arts; musical arts, entrepreneurs..., well, popular culture, of literary diffusion activities; of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.9.0	Counselor, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.10.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.11.0	The next question is about the activities in the cultural sector in relation to the aid planned for the second wave of the Covid-19. [[Asks the Government about the activities in the field of culture in relation to the planned aid for the second wave of the Covid-19]] [[310-00413/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr. Francesc Ten. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.12.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Counsel, yes, we follow, more culture; safe culture. In the first wave, it became clear to us that tourism, trade and culture were the sectors most affected by the pandemic. The very honorable President Torra bet to protect and declare culture as essential. This concept has been in the sector and in society, and it will be a great boost to work through to the end to consider, of all, culture as a fourth pillar of the welfare state. It will advise, despite the fact that we are struggling until now to avoid these drastic measures for culture, health data to contain mobility and social interaction have been stronger than the incidence or impact that culture itself could represent in these data. The general situation, however, is far-reaching and certainly must be reversed. We are patenting a lot of cultural activities, concert halls and performing arts practice, which is a vital moment for the sector and for many people who work and who fall victim to it. But it is also a cultural and social burden that we need as defining elements of being and individual and collective identity. We would like to know, Counselor, what measures you have planned to help, protect this sector and, above all, to reactivate it so well that the Rt indicator is below 1. Our country cannot afford to see the profession of music disappear, or to lose embrazida in the high creation it has always had. We need culture, make it, practice it. We need a lot of planting and a lot of practical to be a cultural motor, an economic motor related to culture, and because culture is a Balsam curator of the anime of citizenship. That I acted as the element of social cohesion, that educates, aculls, balances and aculls the community. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Culture Advisor, Mrs. Ángels Ponsa, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.14.0	Thank you, President. Effectively, Congressman. I couldn't finish the previous intervention because actually, the whole line and battery of help is long. And explain it so condensedly, so it's not simple. But in any case, tell them that of these moneys, of the 17,200,000_euros he was talking about, 3,700,000_euros are destined directly to the workers and workers of culture. We've set a pay of 750 euros for each of them. And, therefore, it is a direct help to professionals, technicians, technical staff of these equipments. In parallel with economic aid, which is very important, is basic, we have also tried to follow up. Since the first moment, we have put the Responsive Culture out of the way; it is a web where each can address its requests to be able to make personalized advices. We also have training sessions scheduled, so that we can reach all of them. We always ask for the reprogramming of activities, which does not cancel, so it is important that everyone has this message. As well as your reference – and at the request of President Torra – on September 22 we were able to approve the declaration of very essential culture. That made it possible for us to do a follow-up of, uh, fine surgery, huh? , as far as I'm concerned, it has affected these equipments that I had before, the stage, musicals and cinemas, because they are the ones that concentrate most interaction and mobility, but it has not affected libraries, museums, archives, art galleries, bookstores and all the rest of cultural equipment and activities. This statement also prepares us to work in the dam you asked for. We're already thinking about the dam, once the low pandemic indexes. I, in parallel, also working on the Canal Cultura, a platform that combines live arts with online arts and a communication campaign, which we will launch at the time of the dam, to help cultural consumption and promote cultural consumption. We are convinced that first is salvation; then is culture, because culture is also salvation. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions related to the management of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00412/12]] The next question is about the relative actions in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Counsellor. In the middle of the Covid; in fact, sometimes we have the feeling that we haven't come out of the first, perhaps because of a fast, unscathed mass, but it is certain that, from the principles of October, the growth here and we find ourselves already full in a complex scene and with great uncertainties. It was important to take restrictive measures, to set clear objectives, to protect the care services – at this time already tense – but above all, to protect the professionals and the most vulnerable; those that we may have abandoned at the time. The level of contagion in the residences does not stop to increase. In one week, the cases have doubled; they have multiplied by eight in the last three weeks. The generality has had to intervene four residences. The sector and the family are very concerned, more than some conversations we've known lately. Counselor, can you explain the degree of implementation of the Resident Intervention Plan? Calen modifications to give an appropriate response?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, has the word, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.18.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Vice-President; deputies, deputies. So, what we find, in the middle of the second wave, and precisely because of this and one of the priorities we have in this second wave, which is protection of the vulnerable; among them, the residences of great people in our country. The situation today is that we have two-hundred residences with some case; 155 of them, between one and nine cases. And so, much more manageable than large buds that we can hold to the residences; 1,457 residents that today are Covid positive and therefore, it is a 2,6_percent of the residents that there is to our residences, 162 of them are admitted to hospitals and eight of them to the ICU. This marks a specific protection for us that we need to do. From October 16th, when we decided to take general action, throughout the country, throughout society, we also clearly prioritize protection, overprotection in these residencies and pose as a risk situation the whole country wants to say periodic cracks to the resident professionals, which is mainly why the virus can enter and why, we all know, what causes stars. Also the antigenic tests, which from the 19th of October extended also to people symptomatic of residences – we already carry more than 1,600 texts made in residences – that give us faster in order to be able to act when there is an outbreak. And that too, we would extend to professionals, with these cracks, from the last protocol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word again for the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.20.0	Thank you. Look, I'm glad you're giving us the data, because I mean we're still in time. Because if there's anything we need to learn from the first wave, for what it does to residents, it's that we're late. They were late and the costs were very high. From all angles I have to say that in that battle they may have won more egos than the responsibilities and, therefore, who paid were the same users of the residences. The sector tells him: they are unprofessional. It was actually determined that in the first wave. Thousand cents, they determined. But it turns out that since the residences don't cover the debts you have with them – the decree has to be changed now to be able to do so – they can't make the contracts. They also ask for the cracks; I see that you have predicted it. But I also link up with the subject of external visits; we are asked for clear criteria: determination that visits and their restriction are more linked to the risk of resurgence and that they are clearly stated when to restrict them. It's hard to reconcile security and loneliness, security and not see family members, but they need to know when to act. Nor has health care just worked, because it depends a lot on the saturation of CAPs. Residences are space for living and living. The role of professionals is that of healing and prevention. Its responsibility is the responsibility for health care, decisions and normative actions. We can't fail as many people as we all have right to salvation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, again, the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.22.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We are very much in agreement with the last thing you say and we are very clear that we do not want to fail and that we want to be at the side of all people, knowing that the zero risk does not exist and that absolute security will never hold it. That's why the professional scribbles. For this reason, the residential sector board, which establishes more prevention and protection; it establishes that rapid intervention teams, which together with the residents and delegates of the councillor for residences, primary care and public health, act at the lowest possible level, as a positive professional person, as a positive resident. Also strengthening communication with families. We thought it was essential and we also opened a way of participation with families to take into account the rights of residents and family members. And a call to professionals, which was made through the SOC, so we didn't miss it. The EUR 37,6 million for residential support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Ask the Government about the management of residences and care centers for the large people during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00409/12]] The next question is about the management of the residences and care centers for the great people during the Covid-19 pandemic and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Noemí of the Street. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.24.0	Consellera Vergés, last Friday her conselleria published new restrictions for the containment of the Covid and among all the measures there was not a single word for the residences, when it has been one of the most affected sectors, with almost seven_ thousand deceased to date. In the previous wave, you recognized that one of the mistakes you made was not to shield the residences from a first moment and in this wave – this second wave that is coming..., that we already have on top of it – you are not only going to make the same mistake, but, according to your sectoral plan, right now each resident can receive the visit of three people a day. Multiply three visits for the 56,000 residents who are about now in Catalonia for the thirty-day period of one month. Are you aware that with your current instructions you are allowing more than 5 million visits in one month in total Catalan residences? Do you know that there are already positives in residences produced by visitors? Is that how to contain the virus? Are you going to rectify it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.26.0	Thank you very much, President. So, of course, this is about a pact, a job, an agreement between the residential sector and the health sector, obviously, to reconcile and find balance, as we said before, between maximum security and protection before the Covid-19. The visits are absolutely established as they are to be done with maximum security, with distance and, even so, in some points it is carried so far, so far, that there are also complaints of family members and residents, that they only have that look in order to be able to keep close to their family members. Therefore, this is part of an agreement. We don't have to rectify it. We will not buy the speech, because we have prepared ourselves precisely to maintain this balance between the right of residents and family members and to have a security in the management of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.27.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.28.0	Counsel, look, the exact case of visits is not a result of a pact with the sector, because it is the sector itself that is demanding that something be done on this subject, please. What cannot be done is that you, or you, apply different criteria in hospitals and residences. Different hospitals have already banned visits to patients admitted. Why not do the same in residences? It gives the impression that they have not learned from the mistakes of the first wave and go from head to head to reproduce them in the second and seems to avoid deaths, for this government, be secondary, that it is more important that a series of friends work and make box with all this drama that is being lived in the residences, as is suggested by the investigation for alleged corruption that is splashing to people linked to Convergence and also to Esquerra. And it's just, how fast you've learned Convergence Left. Have you put yourself in the place of all those people who have lost a loved one in a residence? Because as a result of your disastrous management and all that has come to light these days, you and Councilman El Homrani the first thing they would have to do is ask for forgiveness. And then, in order to give peace and quiet to both residents and family members and professionals in the sector, they should resign and leave people who have experience and motivation to save lives at the head of their councils.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.29.0	Time's up. Thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.30.0	Look, Congresswoman, Councilman El Homrani and I were meeting with the sector and, in fact, we met a few days ago with different employers in the sector. One of them – one of them – repeated exactly the same speech that you made to me here, and we explained to him, not I, but all of them, that it was the result of an agreement that had worked for the rights of the residents, that they are people and that they live and that they have their domicile in residences, and perhaps it will be the last home they have. Therefore, based on this, on balance, there is no one like us who wants maximum safety in the epidemic. And it's painful – it's painful – that I'm dealing with this with insinuations and reports from the Civil Guard, which are obviously implying things I don't share. I am very calm – very calm – in all this. Look, and ask what time we have – ask what time we have – I say, the primary care is to the residences. The primary care was reinforced because we could go there – the residency support program – because, yes, it was suffered in the first time and because we were prepared for this second one: €37.5 million; 270 equivalent nurses; 163 family meths; continuous care; treatment of home oxygen, which also topped up the residences and doubled it since the month of July, which has gone to 448 treatments; realization of PCRs also to the residences and now tests of antiques; we were prepared with contingency plans with drift spaces, thirty-six buffer residences. And that's all for the residents, for the people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the economic support to the sectors affected by approved restrictions]] [[310-00407/12]] The next question is about the economic support to the sectors affected by the approved restrictions, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.32.0	Good morning, Counselor. Miri, from our parliamentary group we would like to know what is the real state of the aid announced to the Generality that affects the sectors that have restricted their activity. We want to know why restrictions apply first and help do not arrive until weeks later. Second of all, why don't the help announcements go back to the approved realities? For example, the Culture Advisor announced 17_million for the sector and only 8 were approved. Thirdly, why do advertising campaigns start to spread certain measures that are still not being implemented? And finally, in fourth place, why are they spending so little, why are they spending so late? Or, it makes sense that Mr. Aragones is more likely to control the Generality's deficiency, when theoretically there are no objectives of deficiency, than actually to face the patience of the people who are affected by the restrictions applied by the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.33.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.34.0	Yes, thank you, President. My honourable Member, therefore, I can tell you at this time that the support of the Government of Catalonia to help all these economic sectors affected by the restrictions has been more than 300_million euros. In fact, these last 300_million euros that we have mobilised, you talking about deficit, so precisely, they come from this relaxation of the deficit target, which we do have, but in this case it is 0.2_per_cent. This is EUR 420 million for the Generality, of which we have just mobilized 300 immediately. And we have often done so in parallel with the taking of measures, not like the Spanish State that we still expect with the state of alarm decreed these economic compensatory measures that accompany this decision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.35.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.36.0	We are not helping new ones: 40_million more for guaranteed income, this was already on the assumptions that they agreed with us; 35_million for the social sector – if you yourself recognize that this is the application of the agreement with us. Therefore, you are coming as help to affected sectors resources that were already in the approved assumptions. I mean, they're recycling measures. And, look, do you really think you can look at the affected people in the catering sector? A person who has had to close his or her business for more than twenty days, who until almost fifteen days has not been able to ask for help, which is only 1,500_euros. Do you think that you can pay, closed three weeks, to the catering sector only €1,500 per business? The lodger, the workers, the commitments with the suppliers... Therefore, it is not certain that you are putting all the flesh to the grail at the expense. In fact, they're talking about... they're giving me reason, that's to say, you want to complete the deficit target when they've actually told you... from the state to the government to the left that the deficit target is only oriented, that they spend, that when they actually exceed the deficit target they'll finance the state. There's a Covid fund for this year, 3,200_million euros; the year you see, another Covid fund. They'll keep the transfers in charge of the funding agreement. Therefore, I spend once and for all and stop recycling measures, and above all help the affected sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.37.0	Congressman, thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.38.0	First of all, we would like to be able not to recycle, as you say, measures. Why do you know what's going on? , that the structural fiscal deficit suffered by the Government of Catalonia does not allow us to dispose of all the resources that we could mobilize to accompany these sectors and, therefore, to improve the lives of our citizens and also the economy of our country. But as I said before, a xifra of approximately 300_million euros. And if I may, I'll detail it a little more because I think it might have caused some confusion where those money went, right? Why, look, these 300_million concretely that I have told you that we have just mobilised want to give economic support to all those sectors most affected by the restrictions, certainly, and, concretely, if I may, I will explain it: 17.2_millions for the cultural sector, of which the government was going to apply as the first package 8.4, but it is 17.2; for entities of lleure, 20_millions of euros; for sports clubs and federations, 20_millions of euros more, and non-federals, huh? So did I. And for the restoration and aesthetics sector, apart from the 40_million that we already made available when we first took the measure, we did not put in 50 more and, more importantly, we also have additional measures, such as the decree that allowed the 50_per_cent logger or the ERTOs themselves to be reduced, which cover the whole part of the labor expenditure. Miri, from the Government of Catalonia, we are working with a jifra, which I have told you over 300_million that we have just mobilised with this new package of measures, and a concept: expansive policy. And that's what you mean, this expansive policy. So, look, it means an increase in public spending; it means a lot of direct aid and a lot of suspensions and moratoriums at the expense of contributions. On this line, like the European countries do. What are European countries doing? Expanding policies. What did the government ask of the government of the Spanish state from the pandemic? Expanding policies. And what does the Government Sánchez-Can we respect? So, miri, push the quota...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.39.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.40.0	...to the autonomous workers of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.41.0	Time's up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the communication of the latest aid it has approved to deal with the consequences of Covid-19]] [[310-00414/12]] The next question is about the communication of the latest aid that has been approved to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 Government. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Josep Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.42.0	Good morning, Counselor. When the government communicates measures such as yesterday, which are so important and which positively affect many people who are having a bad time, I would like, for example, for these measures to be the information that opens the telenews of public television. Yesterday wasn't the case. I understand and share that our public television is making an important deployment to cover the elections of the United States, but I also like that it puts the fish above all in the function of national television. But that's not what we want to ask, Counselor. We do want to talk about the measures approved by the Government and how it communicates them, because we feel that good communication also helps to make the measures they take more effective, whether in the health or public health fields, such as economic and social measures to help people, workers, whether they are self-employed or not, or companies, especially those in the sectors most affected by restrictive measures. In this sense, the decrees passed yesterday, with urgent fiscal, social and cultural measures, are first-class measures, a sense of doubt. It is what we ask them: courageous and well-guided measures, and that the government anticipates before complicated situations become irreversible, and that they communicate them with clarity and convey confidence to the citizen. We understand that in this sense it does not help people to continue their work, that it is a lot, and we have to overcome, moreover, the absence of President Torra, ignominously removed from his charge for an irresponsible state that in an alarming situation from the middle of a president for having defended a fundamental right. We understand that for this reason, without his leadership, President Torra, at times the Government has launched contradictory messages, and that this is detrimental to the perception of the citizens and the effectiveness of the same measures. But we also understand that they are conscious and that, as it is now, it is clearly explained what is being done. Counselor, what is the government's understanding of communicating the latest aid approved to address the consequences of Covid-19?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.44.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, Members, Members, therefore, we certainly share that communication is one of the strategic axes in managing any crisis. And if communication in a crisis situation is always complicated, in a health crisis like we still have much more questions. And as much as the predictions as the evolution know that they are changing... and, therefore, in this sense still make this communication more complex. But, at times, as complicated as it is, I share, therefore, that it is more important to give up-to-date information, communicating to what we know and all the forecasts we have, without being too alarmist, but making clear the situation from the first moment. And you referred to two concepts that I think are precisely the basis for successfully fighting this pandemic and its effects, which are clear messages and courageous policies. And, in fact, clear messages and effective communication do not only serve to explain these measures that the Government has taken for health reasons, but this effective communication also has to serve us to achieve a real dialogue with people and with the sectors affected and thus to be able to make courageous policies that give a real and effective response. Now, I also want to put in value that this Government, more than to do counter-crisis policies, also makes those policies that the European authorities mark as the key to the transformation of the economy of the countries – we must not stop working for the future of our country – sustainability and digitalization, a strategy that for us is not new, and that since the Government of Catalonia we have been betting for digital Catalonia, as a clear bet from the beginning of President Torra's mandate. And following this strategy and including in a time of pandemic the Government has also had to carry out different measures that we also want to explain and put into value: it has made the biggest investment in optical fiber in the Pyrenees; we have approved the NewSpace strategy of Catalonia by using nanosatellites, which will generate quality jobs; we have approved a contribution of 59_million euros to the Barcelona Supercomputing Center, until 2029. Therefore, I conclude: we are managing a pandemic and can explain very well all the measures taken, but also as the Government is looking to continue working and continuing to explain that it is all this work, which are the measures we are taking for the future of Catalonia and for the future of its people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of professionals, entrepreneurs and inn workers, trade and services]] [[310-00410/12]] The next question is about the situation of the professionals, the entrepreneurs and the workers of the inn, the trade and the servants. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.46.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Budó, in the past plenary I asked them if this government had any economic contingency plans to accompany families, the self-employed and SMEs, to accompany them and to protect them, because as you well know many of them have been forced to close their business. I talk to you about bars, restaurants, beauty centers, night entertainment, gym, fairs and many other sectors affected, like all those linked to tourism. The decisions that this Government has made affect them and their entire value chain: carriers, distributors, producers; all affected by the restrictions imposed and many of them on the verge of final closure. The Councillor's answer was clear: this Government did not have any support plans in line with its decisions to accompany the families, the autonomous and the Catalan SMEs; they were abandoned to their fate. After almost three weeks of making the decision to close their business, I have to ask you again: Does this Government already have a contingency plan to accompany them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.47.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.48.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, I would first like to apologize for the absence of Councillor Tremosa, who is in pre-emptive confinement, as you know, in his home, and for this reason he cannot be here to answer this question, which is the councillor to whom he was addressing. Certainly, we are concerned and working for these sectors. We are aware of the situation of the sectors that you mentioned in this first question. It is a tremendously complicated situation, an emergency situation, and it is for this reason that we in the Government of Catalonia are taking all possible measures to accompany them at these times of this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.49.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.50.0	Obviously, he has no plan, nor does he intend to have it. Mrs Budó, we start from a reality: what all these families, all these self-employed, need is to be able to work, to guarantee the health situation so that they can reopen their business, because they can't take it anymore. They're dying and they're losing all hope. Keep in mind that time in politics is much slower than time in real life. For you, enduring fifteen days is nothing; you can even afford to talk about setting up a Catalan NASA or dedicating yourself to opening embassies abroad, as you have had the defachability to do in the midst of the pandemic, but for families and self-employed people who have been forced to close fifteen days is an insurmountable eternity. Put yourself on your skin and assume your responsibilities. They are families who endured the first confinement, exhausted their savings, did their best to save jobs and have been indebted and made all investments to make their establishments safe. And they are no longer able to endure more weeks without help. Don't forget, counselor, they did their part. A government has to assume its responsibility. A government that assumes its responsibility cannot make such drastic decisions, with devastating effects on the economy, on the lives, illusions and future of families, without assuming the consequences of such decisions. Re-adjust your budget, coordinate with the Government of Spain, abandon victimism and, above all, do not waste any more time. Counselor, I ask you again: are you willing to assume your responsibility as a government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.51.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.52.0	Thank you, President. Miri, honourable Member, obviously this government does not escape its responsibilities from the first day and from the first moment. Listen, I'm sure the government recognizes, therefore, that this situation is a complicated one. It's a complicated situation at the global level – at the global level. And, of course, it's more complicated for these sectors than you were looking for, and so is it for others, isn't it? The situation – I said to the principle – is of urgency. We are in a situation of health emergency that has generated an economic and social crisis, in the face of this health emergency. And that is why we in the Government of Catalonia are taking all possible measures. Because this government is very clear that saving businesses save people, saving lives. We are also very clear about this. In fact, you said to me: "Do you have any plans? Miri, listen to me, I just explained. More than EUR 300 million in the last provision of resources that we have put in place with the Government, direct aid to entrepreneurs and workers who are affected by these restrictions that mark the health requirement; more than EUR 300 million in direct aid. And we're aware – we're aware – that badly that's not enough. We don't come here to pose for medals. We come here to explain the reality. Dowry, every time we have resources, to accompany these measures that we take with the Government, I am aware that it is not enough. And that is why we ask that the measures by the Government of the Spanish State be accompanied in this state, the state of alarm, of those necessary compensatory economic measures for these sectors as well. And, look, not only that, but we're still working as hard as we can, because most entrepreneurs can capture the most of the European funds that will come from the year you go, because it's a reversal of present, but it's also a reversal of future. And that's what we've been working on since the government of Catalonia. And certainly the context is hard. It's Catalonia and out of Catalonia. And it is for everyone: for the workers and for the entrepreneurs, for the young people and for the great people, for the citizens in general and also for the institutions and for the governments. But it's all the hard work of what...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.53.0	Mrs. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.54.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.55.0	...time's up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the violation of the law against privacy in various police operations]] [[310-00416/12]] The next question is about the violation of the right to privacy in various police operations. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.56.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. In the face of a health, social and economic crisis never seen before, the State, instead of prioritizing the management of this pandemic and the overcoming of this pandemic, has provoked a new wave of the general cause against independence. We have seen, therefore, how the clavegueres are acting again. And I've been doing it with impunity for the rest of my life. That's why today from the Parliament, from its people's sovereignty, we denounce it again. To denounce, for a band, this repressive act in place of the political bet and to resolve the conflict in a democratic way, as we have long demanded, to claim and demand, and to denounce also that to engrave political adversaries and filter its content when this has nothing to do with the facts supposedly investigated is political espionage. Operation Volhov is a new mountain of Civil Guard, and in this case, endorsed by Spanish justice, and led by the creator of all the farce against the process, Lieutenant Colonel Baena, otherwise known as « Tacitus, which certainly already invented the 20-S sedition of the year 2017. It's the Civil Guard doing politics. This is what we see, the Civil Guard doing politics. And when it's the police that do politics while the government refuses to do it, we're in front of a police state. And what is clearly lost is democracy and above all citizenship in general. It's not the first time. We've already seen it with the escorts to De Alfonso and Fernández Díaz, Operation Catalunya, with the causes against the CDRs, and a lot more. And now they're gonna try again. Anyway, we know very well what they're looking for; we know very well why this operation is. Far from being an anti-corruption investigation, what he seeks is to weaken independence, divide independence, scare us and frighten us. And they also do it to impassion and discredit and cover up the work of this government, its independent government, obviously, which, for example, prevents denunciation, which, despite the limited margin, helps the self-employed, among other sectors affected by the crisis. And, therefore, we repeat, you can continue with the exhaustion of mountains and illegal recordings, because, if we do, we will disassemble them one by one, with the compromise of being as implacable as ever before any suspected corruption, but also resistant and persistent before every repressive wave. We will answer them with more conviction, firmness, politics and democracy. Counsel Capella, you are the greatest guarantor of the Catalan judicial system, who values the right and the state of law, as you value this operation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.58.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Today we are talking about the operation Volhov, perpetrated for the Civil Guard against a number of Catalan politicians and entrepreneurs. From the name sorted to the same operation, unfit for a democratic and right state. But last week's operation is not the only one, we've seen a few more before; a new chapter in the strategy to wear down the independence movement; a redundancy fishery that we found; a great police and media operation that only seeks to suppress political opponents, create confusion and sound, confuse citizenship. State-wide keystrokes to pursue political dissent and political opponents. Today are the independenceists, yesterday were the Basques, the 15-M movement, the anti-systems. And tomorrow it can be any of us who are here today and who are outside. They've overstepped all the boundaries. Impresentable in a democratic and right state. Every time more about a police state, a criminal state, than about the right state. Absolute separation of powers. Montesquieu is dead. We find each time before the permanent confusion of the powers. Actions like Operation Volhov are a new finding of the systemic violation of phone rights. Use escorts and telephone interventions to violate the right to privacy and secrecy of communications, arbitrary arrests, prospective investigations that violate the right to the presumption of innocence, the right to liberty, the right to defence, the right to effective judicial protection, the security that everyone has that in what he is talking about and what he is saying, so he is assured. Therefore, we must denounce it, we must fight it, and obviously we must eradicate it. And in front of the clamorous silences of some, of those who take advantage of this situation, remember Martin Niemöller: "When the Nazis came to pick up the Communists, I kept silence because I was not a communist; when they went to pick up the trade unionists, I did not protest because I was not a trade unionist; when they came to pick up the Jews, I did not protest because I was not a Jew; when they came to pick me up, there was no one else I could protest. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about support for workers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00417/12]] The following question about support for workers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselor. The pandemic has placed us as a society before the Mirall. The Covid-19, in the good and the hurt, will transform our society, or rather, will accelerate processes that otherwise have been resorted to slower. It will be up to us to decide what kind of society we want to build by correcting everything that the pandemic has brought out. He has taught us to value the sector of cures, very feminized and for the sake of collectivity, and we have to decide whether to lay these foundations to the future. Now, decisions. Do we want and value a model of a small or large businessman who makes a community, who with his business gives life to the people or the city, who hangs on to the territory and is the network that holds on to us in good times and sufferings? Do we only bet on the great chains that lie ahead of the difficulties tank and go and re-adjust? Today, here, we value the pimes, the entities without any work, the associations and all those people who, one way or another, have built what is Catalonia. How we design cities changes our lifestyle, how we modify the architecture of our internal spaces changes our gaze to hear the others, and how we design and apply policies exemplifies that there are still left and right spaces. Denying it is a fallacy. We are Republican Left, and as our name says, our policies are loaded with content in their decisions, even though these are hard and difficult to take, and sometimes not popular. And yes, we want to decide, we want competitions – we want all of them and to be a republic already – and we don't take away responsibilities, because we believe in what we do, and the goal is to be able to develop it. I don't, don't feed us. We act, and when it plays, it's easy or not so easy, diametrically to the antipods of what we're seeing with the Sánchez-Iglesias government, which before this second wave and the frac of re-centralisation, now the option is nothing. In this second one rained on the mule. Before that, there are no dishonest gesticulations about magical measures that do not involve a cost to anyone. It is up to the Government to give solid guarantees to all affected sectors. And yes, not only economically but also with emotional support, they promote community and community support networks, and anticipating the preservation of collective, vital emotional salvation, because with prevention one avoids acting when this void or loneliness is transformed or drifts into a strong impact on mental salvation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.61.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.62.0	Counselor, do you share that look?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.63.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.64.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councilwoman, Members, Members... Deputy, as you stand, we are at a time of many uncertainties, many uncertainties. Patiment is not only for the health crisis of the Covid-19, but for the economic, social and labor crisis of which it is accompanied. And in these moments of uncertainty, what we have to be honest, what we have to be clear, and what we have to look for is all the tools we have to support this double exercise, to take care of public salvation, community salvation, and at the same time, to be able to give that support to get out - in a collective and community way. In this sense it is where we make our efforts, and we will follow them. And the thing about me is how it's visualizing such a different way of doing it. It cannot be that the same day that we make an effort, an effort that this Parliament has called for for the workers and the self-employed, we find a direct game of help, we have the news that the quota of self-employed people is being sapped. No, it can't be. It can't be, it can't be that who has skills and ends up grabbing resources support the quota while we're sending a support message to the sector. It cannot be that there are still workers and workers in this country who have not charged the ERTO, and I know that we do not like to listen to it, and I am aware that it has been very difficult, that it is very difficult, but any citizen of this country knows a friend, a friend, a family member who has had difficulties in collecting the ERTO and who still kept these difficulties. On this line, we're working. The support, the support to that pile of peppers that gives economic greeting to the country, in contracting, in formation, in labor orientation, in local economic and social development. Also in the support to the local ens. The details in active policies are detailed that are directed towards the joints, because a very important part of these foundations is destined to the locals. And at the same time, we explain how we act in different situations. Yesterday we were able to explain it to the Conca d'Odena; they had a situation, for the health reality in March, differential, and we must be able to give them a differential support. And it's in these lines that we'll continue to work on. Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about presuppositional priorities]] [[310-00411/12]] The next question is about the presuppositional priorities, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.66.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragonès, good morning. I am grateful that you have made a gap in your conquest of space to attend that control session. I wanted to ask you if it seems to you decent to melt the money of Catalans into a chiringuito to pretend they are NASA.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.67.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.68.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, this government's presuppositional priority is to provide resources for the fight against Covid in the health, residential and educational fields, and to support all affected economic sectors, and to continue working to achieve investments in sectors that are strategic of the future, so that we can work with the short lights with today's emergence, but also, obviously, with the reversal, and empower the sectors needed to grow tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.69.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.70.0	Look, you'll say whatever you want, but your press conferences say otherwise. We believe that it is absurd and indecent, in the middle of a pandemic, to launch these messages when, on the other hand, they are telling families and economic sectors that there is not enough resources. I believe that his ridiculousness has been demonstrated, and it is only necessary to see the amount of memes for those who have given the matter and the mockery that the international press has made. Because, Mr Aragonès, no one takes your government seriously anymore, there were even people who said that on the first trip the crew were either members of your government or asked if you were going to open one of your embassies on the moon. And yes, some can take the subject laugh, but to us it does nothing of grace; we are indignant. We are outraged because we have been watching you burn Catalan money for years instead of investing in social policies, health care or education. Look, Mr. Puigneró wanted to be the hacker of the process and you gave him a department and 600_million_of_euro each year; there are your budget priorities. Then he wanted to play spy and they created a cybersecurity agency that costs us 15_million_euro per year. Now she wants to be an astronaut. What are you doing? Burn 18_million_of_euro in a placement agency. We are in favour, of course, as you said, of investing in science and technology, but one thing is science and technology, and another is the 'flashes of your Government to which you are dedicating more than you are dedicating to helping those economic sectors to close their business in this pandemic. Really, Mr. Aragonès, do you share what Mr. Puigneró does? So far the only space we've seen in Catalonia is the black hole, it's a process that swallows all the resources. You said in the presentation of the project to democratize space. We prefer to deworm the institutions. The only satellites we've seen are all those cockroaches that you're watering with subsidies and public contracts, as we're seeing in this corrupt plot that's coming out and pointing to your government and your party. I believe, Mr Aragonès, that we, along with many Catalans, are going to get in the next elections that you put into orbit because this, as you can all understand, is absolutely untenable. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.71.0	To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.72.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission, you refer to the adoption of a strategy to support Catalonia's aerospace and aeronautics industry, which has many actions spread over many years, which funding is not based on the assumption of the Catalonian Government, but, more broadly, on the channelling of European foundations. Because as you know is one of the priorities in the industries of the future, also for Europe, a good positioning in these areas. This, which is a medium and long term job, which is a medium and long term strategy, does not have a direct impact on the assumptions of this year, and, as I say, will be financed by European funds. Therefore, all that remains to be gained is that you should go to other departments of the Generality. You also refer to the Civil Guard operation that we saw last week, an operation in which, based on listening and conjecture, they went from here to there and try to build a report that doesn't exist. You have spoken of a corrupt plot, and what I demand here is that you withdraw your words. Because you're dealing with your intervention, not only the presumption of innocence, but you're also supporting what is the violation of the secret of telecommunications, which has occurred. Because when it is published in a summary, when it is published in a summary talks that have nothing to do with – nothing to do with – the facts that supposedly have been investigated and that are purely political treachery, it is clear that this operation is responsible for a single objective, that is to attack politically a space of this country. A space in this country that you say you want to put in orbit, that you say we're parasitic. So, look, the majority of this country's parliament and the majority that's won at the polls and the government of this country, that's a democratically elected government, you can't say, from the bottom of it, that we're a couple of countries, because it's treating half the population of this country of countries, and I won't accept that, Mr. Congressman. Therefore, we will continue to work, no one will fall to us, and no illegal action, illegal escorts and state operations or state key-gatherers will cause us to give up our goals, which is the welfare of the people and the independence of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.73.0	Thank you, Vice President. (Dimas Gragera Velaz intervenes without using the microphone.) Deputy..., Deputy... ( Dimas Gragera Velaz asks to speak.) Okay. If it's because of the direct inquiry the vice president made, yes, but we won't get into a debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.74.0	I reaffirm myself absolutely in everything I have said, and if you, who know the way of the courts very well, want to take me, do so, because we are not going to withdraw one of the words we have said here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.75.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the creation of the Space Agency of Catalonia]] [[317-00237/12]] The next question is about the political situation and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.76.0	Yeah. Thank you. Could we appreciate, with a little more conviction than a moment ago, the announcement of the launch of the so - called Catalan NASA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.77.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès, spoke. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.78.0	Neither Catalan NASA, nor Catalan CNI, simply, policies in the field of telecommunications and supporting the strategy of a strategic sector for the European economy such as the aerospace sector, and which is in the priorities, also, of the economic agenda of the European Union and of European foundations, of the ERDF funds in the past years, and which is approved of the strategy RIS3CAT of Catalonia, which also links with what is the European Fund strategy approved already enough years ago in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.79.0	I've got the word the deputy again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.80.0	Thank you. Look, I was ardent in my desire to appreciate at parliamentary level the launch of the 'Catalan NASA' because, finally, beyond the widespread chothéo, even the British The Guardian has referred in comical terms to the issue, or because, indeed, beyond the suggestion that the idea of sending you all on a space mission to a distant galaxy, I think it is worth a thorough analysis of the issue. You point out that you are going to create 1,200 jobs and this would make you world leaders in this matter. Don't hang up. Look, there is a circumstance that in Congress I was a member of the Spanish delegation of the Interparliamentary Group of the European Space Group. He wasn't the only Catalan. I'm not a world authority in this matter, I assume, but I'm not going to be able to take octopus as a pet either. Look, I'll explain. You've budgeted it at 18_million_euro. And, in fact, 1_million_euros can be spent on two nanosatellites, which is more or less what they cost. What are they going to do with the remaining 17_million? I have already advanced it: it will be all salaries and advertising campaigns. Why do I know? Because, nanosatellites on the sidelines, when it comes to space technology, with 18_million_euros, they don't even buy the screws of a shuttle. They're not pushing a space agency, they're pushing a placement agency of ideologically close people, which are different things. The drama is that those 18_million_of_euros that in space technology are insignificant, today, in sanitary material, would have fallen from the sky. And it's that even in the worst moments you're not able to put yourself next to the sufferer, next to the one who's having a bad time. Always hostages of his identity megalomania, always hostages of his delusions of greatness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.81.0	To answer again, you have the word of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.82.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Miri, Member of Parliament, what we are doing especially and very intensely before this second question is to take the health and economic measures that this country needs to face up to this situation, which seems to be of no importance to you, because it has not dealt with it in this session of control of the Government. And we have taken courageous measures; courageous measures that are now being applied in other European countries and that now also autonomous communities governed by their party are demanding that they also apply. Certainly, they come from the economic sectors of these autonomous communities and say how they may not be accompanied by aid. Ours, they do go with help. That's the difference. This is the difference between you and us. That when we also take measures to combat health emergencies, we accompany them with economic measures. That there will probably be people who will say that they are insufficient and we, like the government, admit it, are insufficient. Any economic measure that makes a Government of the Government of Catalonia that does not follow the one that manages all the tickets, all the taxes that are generated in this country, will always be absolutely insufficient. And, therefore, we will continue to work and continue to focus our efforts not on the debates to which you always want to bring us, because you always talk here and have always been for a long time saying: "We want you to talk about things that interest people. And at the moment, what we see is that the last questions from the representatives of Spanish nationalism in this chamber have not been about health needs, nor about economic and social needs. But, despite that, we're still working. We passed a decree yesterday precisely because the denunciations of vulnerable families in Catalonia are still more difficult to do. I expect your support, I expect the support of the People's Party, if you are for those things and therefore precisely for those questions that concern people, or support measures in the area of self-government, in the field of culture, in the area of the sectors of restoration, aesthetics or also the support for the guaranteed return of citizens. That, I think, is what you should talk about and not about your things that prove that who is on the moon is you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.83.0	Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Vice-President of the Government. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the general assumptions of the State and its importance to Catalonia]] [[317-00239/12]] The following question is put on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem for the deputy Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.84.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. Mr. Aragones, how do you see the general assumptions of the State, the agreement that was reached last week? Do you think that, in this context of pandemic, with public services detailed, with the industrial crisis that we are patenting and that we are destabilizing, with the inequality that is breaking us as the country, do you think that these assumptions are necessary for Catalonia? I'm already getting ahead of some of the things you can say, like they don't get to GDP. They will always say that they are insufficient or that they increase in a 7_per_cent the departure of the Royal House, when it is not well so, however, of all ways we will not get into this. I, the one who asks you, is that it is not stuck there, because you know that it is the best assumptions you have ever thought of in Catalonia, as at least in the last twenty-three years, and so the objective figures say. Therefore, are we clear in a situation of pandemic and crisis as we are, with expanding assumptions, do you think that they are necessary for Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.86.0	Allow me, honourable Member, to first make a finding, as at least from my political point of view. The best assumptions for Catalonia will not be those of a Spanish state, they will be those of an independent Catalonia, of course. That said, the State's draft general assumptions that have been presented have a margin of improvement; it has a margin of improvement and I believe that it is the obligation of everyone who has the capacity to influence this margin of improvement, not only in aspects such as territorialized investment, that can actually increase it. There's been a change in respect to the last assumptions, especially with the prorogations, but there's... here's a margin of improvement, which is important. There is also room for improvement, for example, in areas such as the area of dependence, where the Generality carries a lot and a lot of years more than it is close to us in the area of finance, and therefore, despite all the decoration that you with all the political force are trying to put on these assumptions, I think that they are far beyond what would be absolutely necessary, in a sector such as the dependency sector that has proved itself in this crisis which, as it was built after the approval of the Law of Dependence, had structural weaknesses that could only be solved if the majority of the taxes were collected and the largest burden on its part was managed by the Government of the State. And, therefore, there is room for improvement. And I think that you should be very sensitive to this margin of improvement, because it is an initial proposal and the truth, we hope that you will change much in the parliamentary process to the Congress and the Senate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.87.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.88.0	Always open to the margin of better, but I think it's interesting that you continue to negotiate this margin of better, because I ask him: do you think Catalonia can give up a new Covid fund? Do you believe that Catalonia has to give up 2,500_million euros that go to investments and that they are mainly destined for the Mediterranean Corridor or the Rodalies? You were talking about dependency, you know there's an increase, in the dependency game, of 46_per_cent. We can't tell people who depend on Catalonia that they have to give up this margin of improvement that you were talking about now. Do you think that Catalan opinions and avies should give up their pensions? I also want to remind you that these assumptions have 12,000_million euros that go to the digitalization of the economy, that go to innovation, that go to research and not only that, but also increase the game of sanitation by about 150_per_cent. And, in fact, I propose these assumptions may be the first stone of the National Pact for the salvation that Catalonia needs, which we have approved in this Parliament and which, at the moment, you are not willing to throw forward. Therefore, we are playing a lot, not just the future, but also the present. And it must be made clear that the assumptions cannot be a tool of partisan struggle or confrontation, whether intelligent or not, that I think it is not intelligent at the time we are. Therefore, they demand that they are not to be mistaken again. They ask them not to do what they did with previous assumptions, because the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans need these accounts, they need these resources to keep moving and getting out of this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.90.0	What I think we can't give up is to change the last measure in relation to the autonomies made by the Government of the State, that it's to take away all the hard-hitting shares of this year at the time of the second year, in which, unfortunately, this last quarter of the year, we will see a fall in economic activity or, in any case, a much smaller growth than we had expected, inter-quarterly, of economic activity. Therefore, I believe that this measure does not only have room for improvement but should be reversed, and you have the ability to do so. You, for a long time, have complained that President Torra, therefore, is asking for things as his party is part of the Spanish government. But you, of the first interventions you make here... is to ask what the parliamentary groups will do at the Congress of Deputies. So they will do as they see fit, obviously, parliamentary groups will always defend the interests of this country's citizens. And a slight downside. European funds: they must be managed differently; we must have clear mechanisms, procedures...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.91.0	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.92.0	...and calendar dates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.93.0	The next question... [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the political situation]] [[317-00240/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.94.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government in place of the President of the Generality, I would like to express to him, on behalf of my group, our concern and the concern of many citizens about the information published in various communication media from recent police investigations ordered for a trial aimed at the creation of a crisis committee parallel to the official who would have been in charge of coordinating the activities in relation to the residents during the first wave of the pandemic. This information also points to a presumed attempt to obtain a favor from various companies from high-level policy contacts. Mr Vice-President, we all know the difficulties that arise from the gap between information time, parliamentary time and judicial time. That is why I would like to ask him if he has ordered the Health and Social Departments to draw up a report on these alleged actions so that they can reassure the public opinion and avoid any doubts about a possible diversion of public funds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.95.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.96.0	So I'll answer clearly, Mr. Iceta, repeating that we are in front of an operation that has many gaps, that tries to build a report from conjectures and from telephone escorts in which he took a piece from here, a piece from there. No, there wasn't, and there was-there was a crisis committee parallel to the officer. There was obviously all the work teams together, also in the area of private residences, in the area of local administrations and of local security and Emergencies to act in each area. Next thing. No, there is no contract for the administration of tests by the Health Department with persons who are involved or who have appeared and who are imputed in this procedure, nor is there any contract in the area of residences with persons who are imputed in these actions that we knew last week. We have therefore asked the departments for information; we have confidence in all the public servants who have been working in these areas, and obviously we are still at their side because they are facing a very complicated situation from the social and health point of view at very difficult times and where the fraudulent investigation of members of the Civil Guard has to distract them from their goal, which is now to save lives and save people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.97.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.98.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President in place of the President. I would like to thank him for the information he gives to the chamber, because this is not a substitute for judicial proceedings or a police investigation, but rather a guarantee of maximum transparency and a guarantee that his Government is, in this sense, completely compromised. Judicial actions and this information generate an immediate concern, and therefore this question had the feeling of getting an answer of the type you said to us: we asked for information; it is not true that there was a parallel crisis committee; it is not true that there has been a diversion of funds. As I assume – and you said so yourself – your answer is based on a direct knowledge, because you asked the departments concerned, I think I can give myself for satisfaction with your explanations. And the one, logically, wish that the reality never denied them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.100.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, we are acting with the utmost transparency. I would like to remind you that the whole contract of the Generality – all in general, always – is on the portal of contracts of the public sector of the Generality, with a register in which you can access all the characteristics, the whole procedure. But also all the emergency contract that was made during the first state of alarm is published, is at everyone's disposal. And just a reading of the information that's told there is clearly seeing that what I've just explained to you is so, as I've explained. Therefore, we always act with maximum transparency. I also want to take advantage of the fact that, when there is information that it is public, that it is available, that it is attached to the network, that it can be accessed, I believe that we can remove all the pleas that there are detentions, that there are entries in the register, that there is access to the home of persons, that there are detentions in front of minors. And I think that this is a bad police practice that we too – and also – will bring before justice, because there have been violations of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.101.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the granting of the third degree in prison to the President of the Parliament and to the former Counsellor of Treball, Afers Socials i Família and about the persistent position of the prosecution.]] [[317-00241/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.102.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, advisors, advisors, vice president. The pandemic and the crisis of the Covid-19_has made the society, the health centers and the people's butxacs a star. Today we will talk again, have the opportunity to audit the government's measures and also talk about the measures that have been taken to accompany the most affected sectors. Let us not forget that the Covid also has a very important impact on the prisons, in his day-to-day, on the relations and communications of all prisoners with their family members, some of whom, unjustly, there are our companions and where they will continue to sleep, yes, they will continue to sleep every day in Carme and Pain. But the situation of the prisons in Covid's time will not go away, in the center today talking about two people. Today – the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left is happy, we don't know how long it will last – we want to say high and clear that it is not free, but we are happy for Carme and Pain, for President Forcadell and for Constellera Bassa. We have seen, surprised, a judge make a decision that approaches the least of the reason, or that at least they do not pretend to be repressive, vengeful, in themselves. And that's all we have to insist on: prison should not be our company or friends. We know that and we fight every day, with the same firmness, sereneness and clarity as we hear them talking to them from behind the walls. This third degree is a brim of light, especially because it's just the opposite of what the prosecution gave. And we know very well that, in this state, the prosecution, when it comes down, "finish it for you. It is the prosecutor's office that, by the way, said that prisoners and prisoners had to be rehabilitated. "Rehabilitate ideas. Can I imagine? And in case they didn't talk about a political re-education program. Neither being an independentist is a crime, nor are we to be reeducated, nor will we be rehabilitated. Our ideas are the same and as firm as ever. Amnesty and independence. That is why we insist: only the absolution, an amnesty, will make them truly free. Only one amnesty will free up hundreds of reprisals in this general independent cause. And voting in reference is the solution. Vote in reference to the future Catalan Republic. Vice President, what kind of reading, the government, of the prosecutor's persistent position?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.104.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Commissioner, we see clearly and see that many of the prosecution's movements in relation to the causes that you mentioned have a clear ideological bias; that they try to analyse electoral programmes; that they include in the causes what are political conversations and that they should be employed, as they said before, not only because of the secret of telecommunications, but also because of ideological freedom, and they should not be persecuted. And we see how clearly there is a clear alliance between certain sectors of the prosecution, of the Civil Guard and, also, of conservative Spanish nationalism, also exist in this chamber. Therefore, we must fight this, and we must fight in front of the political solution. Because this is a political conflict and it has to be resolved politically. And the only way to solve 'politically' is to put on the table an amnesty and, obviously, addressing the necessary negotiation for the exercise of a reference in this country to decide the future of Catalonia, for the exercise of the right to self-determination. That's where we have to compromise the joint independence. And also an independence that's mostly in this room and that I'm convinced it's going to be again. Therefore, it is absolutely essential to put on the table these two questions and to do so at the same time that today we want to send a strong hug to all political prisoners and to all exiles, who still feel victims of repression and, especially, a hug to Carme Forcadell and Dolors Bassa, who, at the moment, retain the third degree but who we see as the prosecution, continuously, try not to enjoy the prison rights that have any other prison. And on the side of that, on the side of this claim of amnesty, from right to self-determination, from shared solidarity before repression, we continue to work day by day. And we continue to take bold measures, measures that are absolutely necessary, and that are necessary before a health situation that has taken place throughout Europe. Catalonia we've been acting. The data published a few minutes ago indicate that the transmission rate is already below 1, to 0.96. Little by little. We have to go and keep this constant, because from here we have to come a clear reduction in the name of infection; then we have to come a clear reduction in the name of hospitalizations, and, finally, a reduction in the name of ICUs. We're on a path, so we can keep our hands shut in this direction. It gives results, but we call on all citizens to persevere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.105.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the investigations of the No Instruction Jutjat. 1 from Barcelona to various entrepreneurs and former officials of the Government of the Generality]] [[317-00238/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.106.0	Mr. Aragonès, do you put your hand in the fire by Mr. Xavier Vendrell in the investigations carried out by the Barcelona Court of Instruction No. 1?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.107.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.108.0	As I said before, total trust in public workers who come forward in some of these actions. All the information we have indicates that it has been acted correctly, that where it is meant that there was one thing, in the end, when we go to look, there is no such procedure on which there could have been irregularities. And, therefore, trust in the public workers and denounce all the political bias that this operation of the Civil Guard also has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.109.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.110.0	Well, I see you've had the good judgment not to put your hand in the fire, because here in Catalonia there's already more than one hand burned in the fire. Look, Mr Vendrell – all Catalans must know – is a gentleman who was a member of Terra Lliure; former tripartite adviser with the PSC; a gentleman who says independence needs to come out with the advantage of the pandemic crisis because otherwise, we cannot mark a package; he threatens those who complain about the auctions rigged in the contracts with sending the people who attack them. He is a man who eats lunch for three hours with Constellera Vergés and tells his partner, according to phone calls, that is his voice, that he talks to solve his problems of negotiations with three councillors of this government: with Mrs Vergés, with Mr Bargalló and with another councillor, Mr Chakir El Homrani. Look, for us Mr Vendrell is one more of these plumbers who drain resources and parasitize Catalan society. What has been the reaction of the Republican Left? Have you opened a file in your party? Have you opened files in your own departments? Have you gone to the Union of Accounts? No, no, They say it's a Civil Guard operation. And what have they done? Call the President of the Government of Spain to say to him: "This is how we go wrong. This is a political operation. Look, Mr. Aragonese, you could at least have apologized. An investigation that has phone taps are the voices of people who are saying what they want to do or, in some cases, what they have done. And then that: don't tell me about the presumption of innocence, because these are facts that would motivate a serious government to start investigating that and put a stop to it. But it is very clear that you are not for that work. You are for what has always been done in Catalonia, which is to cover corruption with the flag, today, with the stellate. So you go with that story to others. You were the one from "Spain steals from us, but you were stealing from us Convergence, Republican Left and now Mr Vendrell. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.111.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.112.0	In the middle of the pandemic, in the middle of a very complicated economic and social situation for many families, in the middle of this situation... you, in the accounts of making no proposal, already donate per fact..., and you did here signs... Look, Mr Carrizosa, you wanted to make an intervention on the content of what you were doing here, but I think that, in fact, before your gestures, you are making the ball here in Parliament, I think you do not have any credibility because you answer it. You're not just charging yourself with the presumption of innocence of citizens, but you're also serving what you're talking about – nothing to see – with the facts investigated and which are in a judicial investigation with the sole purpose of doing political harm. Because what has nothing to do with the allegedly investigated facts should not have been included in the cause. So we're still keeping what I said. We've requested information from the departments. The actions that supposedly—supposedly—you say that they're all the syringuits and all this, they didn't happen—they didn't happen. There was no expansion of the educational concert for a given school. There was no contract in the field of salvation; it was revoked and there was no contract during this year. This person has not been hired for the Department of Work. Therefore, I think you should adjust your information very well. You were very well served by these Civil Guard actions precisely in order not to talk about the needs we have here today, because the reality is that about the needs of the citizens of Catalonia you have zero proposals, and I am convinced that even all the voters who voted for them three years ago will abandon them, because they have seen that more than just the chryspacia, the spectacle and the circus in this Parliament you do not know how to do anything else. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.113.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the actions relating to the moratorium on denunciations]] [[310-00415/12]] The next question is about the actions relating to the moratorium on denunciations, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Antoni Morral. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.114.0	Counselor Sàmper, the first alarm decree approved by the Government of Spain suspended the execution of charges, suspension which was extended until June 20. From then on, a large number of denunciations have occurred as a result of the cumulation of the process. In many of these cases, the court has managed its executions, yes or no, without considering the vulnerability of the families living in these habitats, and has caused situations of enormous cruelty. If the accumulating of denunciations are legal and possible measures that the same group of Spanish governments included in the first decree of alarm, we ask ourselves: why has the Spanish Government in this second decree of alarm not only not decreed a moratorium on the judicial proceedings of denunciations, as it did in the first, but that it has expressly refused to incorporate a second moratorium into the proceedings of the Junta Group for Catalonia? Why did he not contemplate a competitive transfer to the autonomous communities because they can be the ones who intervene in this matter? Won't it be because it succumbs to pressure from powerful sectors and thus harms the most vulnerable? What is really dramatic is that today there are fifteen planned appointments only in the city of Barcelona. We are aware that, before this refusal by the Government of the State, the Generality approved yesterday, at the session of the Executive Council, a decree providing for interruptions or suspensions of judicial proceedings in certain cases. And it is in this case, counselor, that we ask you the following question: can you explain to us what are the cases envisaged by this decree? Do you think that's enough of this regulation so that we can stop the denunciations in the pandemic era that we're patenting today? What do you think will be the role of the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Sàmper, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.116.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, yesterday in statements to TV3 in Juanjo Ramón, of the Platform of Affects for Mortgage, said that we do not come smoke, that the real competitions are not from Catalonia, but are state. It is still curious that, after many years always charging against the Government of the Generality, the Platform of Affections for Mortgage and also the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can now recognize for the first time that effectively the responsibility falls on the Spanish Government. Tard, but they recognize him. The Platform of Affections for the Mortgage was partially right, MP. Procedural competence is state. It's true. We have skills in the field of housing, but we do not have skills in the field of court proceedings. And the 25 October alarm decree doesn't transfer process skills. With this ability we have made a decree that basically regulates three things: a first, to be able to suspend civil proceedings when a social logue offer has not been made with expected character. Two: to be able to stop the unemployment when these occupations are girls before the alarm decree. And three: to compel the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, when there is a request with a complaint of precautionary measures of unemployment, to request an urgent report from the social services, which at the same time will bring to the public ministry, the fiscal ministry, in an urgent way as well. "What will the judgments do? He'll ask you. Haurien – haurien – apply an extensive interpretation of European standards, community standards, European directives. And all this is based on Articles 10 and 96 of the Spanish Constitution, because we are talking about human rights and health rights. They're not underage people. The solution is very clear. The fourth final provision of the Royal Decree 30/2020 already provided for the extension of the suspension of denunciations to vulnerable areas until the 31st generation of the year 2021. It's obvious that it has to be expanded by the Spanish government... until when? Up to the top of the alarm decree, that's to say, from now until March. As long as we don't have this regulated, we'll see decoys. With this margin so small that we have competition, because it cannot be smaller, the Government of the Generality is what it has done most. We have taken over the jurisdiction we have, that is, in the area of housing... and from the Territorial Department we have made this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.117.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the reasons that have prevented easy access to information about the cost of preparation and plotting and about the recipients of the 12/2019 briefing.]] [[320-02270/12]] The next question is about the motivations that have prevented easy access to information about the cost of drafting and plotting and about the recipients of the 12/2019 briffing. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.118.0	Counselor, why do they hide when we ask them which recipients abroad send their letters that hate Spain and its judges?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.119.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.120.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, as I have said on other occasions, what I can tell you, what I can assure you, is that the government has always guaranteed access to information for all MPs and MPs in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.121.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.122.0	What are you hiding from, counselor? That we know that they continue to seek complicity abroad, support their separatist project, and are serving them for nothing, because no one listens to them? Is that what you're hiding from? Now, that is, spending money, they spend a lot: 78_million_euros of budget for a Department of Transparency that is hiding what it is doing, and of that money, 7.5_millions are for opaque delegations abroad. Yes, counselor, we have to go to the U.S. registry to know what they're doing; not on the government's transparency web, no, on the U.S. registry. And here we see how, for example, the director of the Puigdemont office, who has a salary of 105,000 per year, and that you do not want to give us your agenda for meetings, nor does he come here to Parliament to account for his activity, traveled to the United States. What was it? Who did you talk to? What did they talk about? Because yes, deep down you don't want to tell the Catalans what you're doing, you want to cover everything up, you want to get out of control. To such an extent that you do not even want to tell me the foreign recipients of those letters, to which you are bound, but that you also reprimand us because we ask what you are doing in that department. Yes, comrades, they tell us that we give them a lot of work. Basically, counselor, your department is an example of abusive opacity practices. And the amparo granted is a clear proof of what they are doing. Now, in addition, with investigations opened by misappropriation of public funds, we begin to understand why. Corruption, counselor, corruption. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.123.0	I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.124.0	Miri, honourable Member, in the first place, this government has a very clear democratic mandate. And this mandate you foresee is that the government can do external action; an external action that passes, in the first place, to project us to the world, and, for other places, to explain Catalonia in all its globality. I know, that you don't share this political view, and tell us you don't understand what external action we're doing out of the world, but what I can tell you is that set of two Catalans demand strong external action. They've said it once and they've said it many more times. For another band, this government has another priority: transparency. It is a priority, a compromise and a conviction, because precisely the information you ask us for is publicly accessible whenever you want through the transparency portal. We don't love each other; we publish exactly everything we do. In fact, we have responded to the 564 initiatives asked for by your group and that, as I told you the other day, requires two people working almost all their day for you. But you're still in this managed block, because you know what's going on? That they do not like the answers that the women of the Government of the Generality. Miri, a few weeks ago Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, Catalonia in its entirety, became part of the OGP, the Open Government Partnership, one of the entities..., in fact, the entity of reference at the international level as the open government. And that makes Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, in the first line for what makes transparency. You're still talking about opacity. I look outside, I look outside, I look exactly what international organizations are saying about the transparency of this government. And stop making that speech over and over again, because you don't fit the reality. Look, today the vice president has had the opportunity to put here, in this plenary, in this Parliament..., and then they will have the opportunity to talk about those great issues that the country is addressing. Stop making empty speeches and tackle those great issues that need to be addressed with the country. They have the opportunity, but I'm sure they won't, as other times have done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.125.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the Day of Distress for Attention Deficit with Hyperactivity]] [[401-00044/12]] After the control session, we proceed to the reading of the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the Movement of the Day of Distress for Attention Deficit with Hyperactivity. The reading will do it, and therefore demand that I proceed to this, the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.126.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the Day of Distress for Attention Deficit with Hyperactivity. On the occasion of the commemoration, on 27 October, of the National Day of Distress for Hyperactivity, ADHD, including in the European Month of Consciousness for ADHD, the Parliament of Catalonia adheres to this day, which shows the need to continue working for early diagnosis and multi-disciplinary intervention, and to encourage research, training and social normalization, so necessary to eliminate the social stigma that, unfortunately, is still being detected today in the family, school, social and work environment closest to the people affected by this disorder. It is necessary to work in the awareness of the need for a first and continuous action that avoids future risks to people with ADHD. The Catalonian Parliament also expresses its recognition to all affected persons and their families, who, unfortunately, are still finding themselves with misunderstanding, disbelief and discrimination motivated by the ignorance of how the symptoms of ADHD affect them on a daily basis. ADHD is a neurobiological source disorder, with a genetic pattern, invisible to the eyes of many people, the different cares that make the usual tasks become a challenge that is difficult to overcome without the support and empathy of the social environment. The Catalonian Parliament appeals to the empathy of people, civil society and public authorities to adhere to this day, to understand the complexity of what they live and suffer more than 5_percent of the child and youth population and 2_percent of adults in Spain, and to work longer than next year in the improvement of the quality of life of these people. Palau del Parlament, November 4, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.127.0	Thank you, Secretary Perez. [[Comparison of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History in place of the President of the Generality to report on the latest measures taken to contain the epidemic outbreak of Covid-19]] [[350-00017/12]] We're still on the order of the day. And the next point is the appearance of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History to report on the further steps taken to contain the epidemic outbreak of Covid-19. As the Vice-President of the Government has requested to appear before the plenary, I give the word to Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.128.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. I have asked for the appearance before this chamber, in which, after my intervention, the Councillor of President Meritxell Budó will take the floor, in order to give account of the measures that we have taken by the Government of Catalonia before the second meeting of the Covid-19, and therefore also with regard to the request made by the Government of Catalonia for the declaration of state of alarm in Catalonia that the Generality was the competent delegated authority to deal with the situation caused by the pandemic. To protect life, each and every one of the spheres of life, beginning with salvation as the most basic and essential part and ending with everything that gives meaning to life itself: our social and community life, our work, businesses, our expectations of the future, the project, our horizon, knowing where to be from here a few months or a year, we are twenty years old or seventy, our individual and collective life that Covid-19 is tearing down and that today we are committed to protecting. And that's all we have to do, protect life with everything that I mean to live, with all the meaning of feeling alive. The situation is extremely difficult, it is critical. The second wave is hitting us hard on all European countries. And all, with nuance, are applying brave measures, similar measures, in order to try to avoid entering a situation of not being able to anticipate, of loss of control and, consequently, to avoid a col·lapse of the health system that returns us to a rigid and strict confinement to try to reverse the situation. It is our obligation, it was our obligation and it will be our obligation to anticipate the evolution of the pandemic and to take all and every action that is in our abyss to reduce the number of infections. This past week we have 29,907 more infected and we are located today at a rebound rate of 747. But these indicators that in themselves, therefore, the ones we usually treat them know of the importance they have... but, because you understand everyone, what makes clear the gravity of the situation is that today we have more than 2,730 people admitted to hospitals in Catalonia for Covid-19 and 489 beds occupied by intensive care units. Therefore, people who are painted; who are having difficulty breathing, difficulties in being able to stay alive. And that is precisely why the health system has been preparing. The data are worrying and see the gravity of the situation. That's why we took action with the anticipatory capability that has given us a tracking and search system that we've been developing in the last few months, that's in full power and that allows us to have this anticipatory capability. And, therefore, it allows us to take measures, which are courageous measures, tough measures, measures which involve sacrifices to so many people, but which allow us today to say that we are beginning to have positive indicators which show that the efforts of the last weeks, the last three weeks, begin to give their fruits. The countdown rate is 0.96. Therefore, every hundred infected of this week, the coming week, following this Rt, this transmission rate, is situational, therefore, in infected norma-sis. Therefore, let's start a small decrease that we need to consolidate. You already know that the data is much more robust when three or four days have passed... which allows, therefore, to incorporate possible delays in the notification. The rebound index, as it used to be, has also begun to fall; it was more than a thousand and is now at 747. Therefore, we are in an incipient change of trend that says that the measures have effects. And it will certainly have a positive impact on the evolution of hospital data at the length of the next few days. We need persistence and patience, and we need to continue with the compromise, so that we can ease the pressure on the health system. And we have to be realists, very realists. And this government, each and every one of the members of the government, as did President Torra, we would always – always – explain to the citizenry the truth of the situation. We will not spare any; we will not spare that the situation is a difficult situation from the health point of view and that, from the social and economic point of view, it is extremely difficult. And this is the context in which Covid-19 has taken us; a full context of uncertainties that has shaken and changed our lives, of all of us, that generates anxiety, suffering from the malaise of friends and family, before becoming infected, before losing work or having shut down the business, from not being able to pay the piss or not being able to fill the fridge; anguish before a strict confinement that no one desires, and because of the anguish in front of an uncertain future that requires absolute answers that today, speaking with sincerity..., and everyone who speaks with sincerity will know that he cannot give absolute answers in such uncertain time. And excuse the cruelty and the sincerity, but we want to be clear before the citizenry. And in the same way that everyone in this chamber understands that this crisis cannot be managed from the bogery of negationism, we must understand that the only way to pull forward, to get out of it, is always from collective trust. That, those of us who have public views and public responsibilities, we must make it clear that now is not the time for false moral discourses that bring us only to resignation and hope that better time will come. That now is not the time to get out of the way, holding on to future expectations that today, so much so that we raise our heads and try to build the foundations of these exits, today they serve just before the emergencies that we have this morning, this middle, this late, and that we will have tomorrow. That we are very clear, this government, where we want tomorrow's Catalonia to be, where we want to bring the country politically, socially and economically. And to get closer to this horizon, without ever losing course, we must meet the needs of the present. Because, without this, there is no future for the country's future policy option that is being debated in this chamber. Nor did we defend this government, this Catalan republic in Europe; free, fair, early, innovative, green and feminist. Therefore, we must take refuge from false moral discourses, from coming out, and we must rely on the potentialities and capabilities of this country. From us as citizens, society and the nation. All folds are tired and frustrated. We were just starting to recover from the first wave of the Covid-19 and we already have the second wave on top. We face it with a more tired society, starting with all the health and care staff, who are making a big effort again. But also with more experience accumulated. With more learning and with more solid and cohesive gears to respond to a situation like we live again. We know better about the disease and we monitor its evolution as never before: day by day, people to people and bars to bars. We have the experience of having multiplied, in question of weeks, the whole strength of the health system, multiplying the number of professionals, beds of ICU, respirators, and we count on the permanent advice of experts from different disciplines, who help us to hear the context from all points of view to take, at every moment, the best decision. Malgrat the size of the pandemic, the system works. And to every problem – there is and there will be – we will not rest until we find solutions, because this is how we will overcome the difficult months that come. Difficult months come, but we will overcome them by seeking solutions and working without rest and at all times, moving for our social commitment. Because this is our collective strength. We saw it in the first wave of the Covid-19, a few extraordinarily difficult months, during which we demonstrated, like the country, the strength of our collective attitude, of our collective structures, of public servants. We all acted far beyond our narrow individual responsibilities. We acted with an unappealable civic and social commitment, with constant displays of solidarity that make us proud of the people. I can put, as for example, retired doctors who have returned to work; companies that have converted their production to produce resources to stop the Covid-19; hotels that have opened their doors to people who need to go away; anonymous citizens who help the most vulnerable groups of solidarity and make food arrive during confinement. Exhibitions of solidarity and civic compromise that were key to accompanying the efforts made for the Government of the Generality and for the rest of the administration. Every one of us has stories of that first wave of the pandemic that, despite the harshness, when we remember them we get excited. And this emotion gives us the strength to face these difficult months that are coming. I can talk about two cases: two cases of collective solidarity also help emotionally to overcome times of so many difficulties. That group of volunteers of my people, that sprinkling brotherhood, that put all its members to carving material, to carving woven so that the women of the Caliu del Cor are possessed to make masks. Or that major street, which I so much esteem of my people and which today, therefore, there are so many people confined, that it went out to the balconies to cheer the Palmira, after being at the ICU for weeks. That emotion we feel, and each and every one of us have, anecdotes of this type, because badly, we have them; badly we have them, because it has affected us too much. And that gives us the strength and security that this country, precisely, is capable of getting out. We do not have absolutes, but we have absolute confidence in the citizens and public services of this country. In the face of complicated, difficult times, this alliance of institutions, socio-economic agents, civil society and the citizenry must be strengthened in the future, raising the standard of social compromise and citizenship. And we are here, we are before a crisis that we will only come out of thinking of the collection and ailing the selfish individualism propitiate, that so long it has come from this neoliberal era that it begins to lapse. This individualism, which has been demonstrated today that, before global risks, it does not serve, is useless. And it ends up comforting our collective consciousness and the universal brotherhood that we saw last spring. That we must move towards the common good, the good collectu. Because, at all times, we need to make it clear that until we're all safe, no one will be saved. The goal is no more than getting a vaccine and a treatment that allows us to recover progressively a certain normality. Which, of course, will not be like the past fever, because many things have passed, but that will allow us to look up again and re-generate expectations and gains of the future. There's someone talking about months, there's someone who's not so optimistic. That is why we must be prepared to face this temporal space, whether longer or shorter, with the conviction that with the collaboration and alliance of all, we will get out of it. With this objective, with the constant advice of different experts, in addition to multiple scientific perspectives and points of view, with wide-ranging debates and consensus decisions, and with an unequivocal teamwork vocation, we have designed a strategy to overlay each Covid-19. A simple strategy, dynamic and able to adapt at every moment, depending on the evolution of the pandemic and which is based, today, on this social upsurge of the country that we decreed last week. In the progressive application of restrictive measures of mobility, always accompanied by active measures of social and economic protection. And that's what we've done, before an extremely difficult situation at the health level that we're patenting. The strategy that we will apply, while we do not have better health data and to which we will go the times that you need, to protect the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. We have decreed the perimeter fence of Catalonia and a municipal confinement of diumenges. We have closed down and we have declared the activity of the commercial centres to be suspended and the expansion of the remaining commercial establishments has been reduced. The opening of cultural, performing and musical activities to the public has been suspected. And children's and youth's activities, school sports and out-of-school activities have also been suspected, except for those for vulnerable people who are produced in the same centre and in the convivial bubble. And we've adjourned all sports competitions, not professional. And, at the same time, we maintain what is the suspension of the activity of bars and restaurants, aesthetic centers, and night clubs. He's agreed to keep pushing the teletreball. And in post-compulsory education, such as batting and formatting cycles, the centres must apply the measures provided for in the plans that the teachers have been working on this summer, to reduce face attendance. And all this is done not because there are sectors that are guilty, nor sectors that have to assume responsibility for a level of infection that is in the community, but because there is the activity of many sectors associated with a mobility that is what makes this virus that we carry people, more capable of becoming infected. In short, this social standstill, which we decreed last week, means: everyone at home, locked up at home. Protect us at home. Except to go to work, to go to school and to do the essential management, administrative, legal obligations or in the commercial field that is essential. That effort that citizenry is doing, that's doing citizenry. A city that continues to live in inequality and that, therefore, is an unequal effort, too. That it is also unequal in function of the living bar, of the social class to which you belong, of the genere, of your genere; also. Because we found out about it in the lockdown. There were many different confinements and now there are also many different social statures. But this government's will is to work because this so-called social agenda was accompanied by measures to ensure fairness. And to accompany this effort that citizenry makes, entrepreneurs and workers, that make families. We have mobilised, and therefore, want to mobilise budgetary resources with 300_million euros, since last week, of greater economic support and social protection. The details are widely known: about EUR 50 million in aid to the cultural sector, to the leurea and to the sports clubs federations. EUR 50 million in addition to the catering sector and the aesthetic centres, which are attached to the 40 which we set aside fifteen days ago. The balance of resources responds to the need to tackle social and economic problems. We allocate €200 million to combat social emergence, extend the guarantee income assumption, with additional contributions to the Food Bank. But also, to fight the housing emergency. A housing emergence that is reshaping every day, when in the midst of the pandemic, that people must be protected at home, there can be no vulnerable people who are left homeless at home. And that's why we're running out of all the tools that this government has at its disposal, to put a stop to the misdemeanours while this pandemic situation in Catalonia lasts. And we'll use them all. And we want them all. And we want to have all the responsibilities, like a state has to protect its citizens. To protect life, to protect work and to give rests to all citizens. It's absolutely imperative. And we will also continue to put in place resources for the protection of economic sectors that are badly affected by the crisis, such as industry, tourism or also agri-food producers. These measures have also been strengthened with legislative actions. As I said before, for this decree, to exhaust all our capacity to put up with totally unacceptable misdemeanours. And another decree, which is the decree to introduce a deduction in the income tax, in the IRPF, because if it is not produced, those people, especially those who have entries between fourteen and twenty-two thousand euros, which is the majority of the population of this country, those who have joined an ERTO, by necessity, because they are called on to an ERTO, would have to bear more tax burden than those who do not. And so, precisely, we have made this change to the IRPF, so as to avoid penalizing those people who are in a situation of more economic difficulty because of going from one to two payers. And we're the State, too, doing the same thing. This strategy that we have applied, we will continue to apply. The social mature with active economic support measures. But it also needs this strategy to be implemented with the highest celerity and speed before the lowest indicator that puts us on alert. For this reason, we called for the declaration of the state of alarm with the sole command of the Government of Catalonia, to act quickly and without undue delay. An alarm state where the Generality kept all the skills and all the management capacity, where we get new ones, probably not enough; but we have more, they take all and every one of the decisions. Because it is the health system in this country that knows better how to stop the pandemic, and it is this health system that has to tell the government what measures to implement. Because it is this country and the institutions of this country that have fully monitored the evolution of the pandemic. And they show that the measures we took on October 15 and 16, which are tough, which are politically very unpopular, but here we did not come to seek popular measures; we did not come to seek popularity, we came to protect life and to protect the work of Catalans and Catalans. I, therefore, will take the necessary measures. Those measures that many people have put into doubt, with all legitimacy, are beginning to take effect today. And today they begin to be applied in other territories that, therefore, a few weeks ago it was possible to look with some distance at the situation that there was in Catalonia. And, therefore, from here also a fraternal embrace to all the public officials of Europe's arrest, of the State, of the world's arrest, which is seen in the situation of making difficult decisions. We understand them perfectly, and we're applying it, too. The state of alarm offers us extraordinarily some attributions of limitation of phonental rights. And from this state of alarm, from the legal point of view, the Congress of Deputies will count. But from the democratic point of view, the Government of Catalonia wants to give it account in this Parliament, because we owe it to this Parliament, we don't owe it to another Parliament, to another legislative assembly. And as an alarm state is an absolutely exceptional situation, we come here to account. And, therefore, he gives us an assignment that we undertake to exercise, from an unequivocal democratic compromise. Above all, because we also know that we are a functioning government, not by our will, but by an unjust disqualification of President Torra. But the government is working, but the pandemic is not. And therefore, we will activate all, all the resources that lie in our abyss to fight it. We will not use any state of alarm to detail rights and freedoms, but to protect the first of the human rights: the first to emerge in all, all statements, constitutions, right cards, which is the right to life. For this reason, for the will to manage this state of alarm from a democratic compromise, we will further strengthen our transparency and permanent communication with all political groups in the Parliament of Catalonia. The need for rapid and effective decision-making must not be detrimental to the maintenance of the essential democratic quality when we are demanding so many efforts at citizenship. And, in this sense, we will summon the times that parliamentary groups need as we have done and will follow, because beyond this exercise of transparency and co-responsibility I believe that everyone, like government and opposition, has had positive contributions from these findings, from this contact to give a better response to the citizenry. And, therefore, for this reason, I take the compromise that the members of the Government will appear in all the plenary sessions of Parliament that are so necessary for the management that the Government is making of the crisis. We have clear strategy and tools to implement it. But it is obvious that in order to bring forth this indispensable collective trust, like the Government, we must avoid polyphony or amplification of speculations that only help to generate more uncertainty. We need to improve – and I take first place the need to improve it, also in first person – because the situation is hard enough because we act with the utmost responsibility and sensitivity. And that also means with the highest clarity. We have a strategy that we find to be effective, but it has a very large cost and, therefore, it must complement it; a strategy that cannot be achieved only by means of health measures, but also by means of economic and social measures. And, therefore, it is also essential that the State do its part. That's why we asked... I asked the President of the Spanish Government to order a moratorium on taxes and social contributions, to resolve urgently the delays in the payment of ERTs, to continue to be incurred, payments that have been made and that have not been clarified and that there are many people who are still waiting; to stop taking measures that at these times are absolutely inappropriate, as the increase in autonomous quotas, that it is a mistake and that must be reversed, and that there is a rescue plan with direct help to the most affected sectors, that complements those that have already been made by the Government of Catalonia. We have the skills, but the responsibilities are also shared, as is the case during the first state of alarm. There were some they had..., they took over the competitions, but we knew that the responsibility was from the hospitals, it was from the residences, it was from the joints, it was also from the Government of Catalonia and this chamber. Beyond the economic horizon, we will also have to open the prism and start dealing with problems that we have not answered well enough. Admit this is not a weakened policy. Admit it is very clear that we must constantly improve, because our citizens deserve everything. We must deal with the crisis with economic resources as well, but we must attend to it with the utmost humanity. And that certainly means that we must also have the ability to implement an emotional care and support plan throughout the city. Keep and be able to integrate, in all and every one of our decisions, the pores and anxieties generated by the pandemic. Accompany the most vulnerable people, the people who feel sunniest still. Loneliness is one of the great evils of our time, more in times of pandemic. Or thinking as we accompany infants and especially young people who do not only see their future as very black, but also have, and rightly so, the feeling that they are losing precious time in their lives. We have to tell them that they are not losing him, that they are investing him in protecting the lives of those most vulnerable people, also those who are at his side. That is why we need to get to work on the emotional dimension of the pandemic, which is lacking in the urgency of the day-to-day, but which is crucial if the collective trust that makes us strong is to emerge again. This will be long, and it will also be long emotionally, mentally. We know that mental salvation is one of the aspects that we will have to deal with, because it is one of the consequences of this pandemic, beyond the realm of health urgency. This will be one of the great scars. And we have to go with him. And to preserve this space of salvation also means to preserve the realm of struggle against social inequalities and to attend to a country that is very diverse, with very different fears, and we must integrate it with all and every one of our decisions. From here – and I'm finished – I am convinced that the effort associated with the measures will give its fruit, that the strategy will continue to work, and that when the indicators allow us to do so, we will be able to make the restrictive measures more flexible in a very progressive way, because the experience tells us that rapid disscalations do not give an optimal result, that they can generate a short-term perspective, but do not give us strength in the medium and long term. And that's about the end of it until we have an effective treatment or a vaccine. When are we gonna do this? So when it forms part of the uncertainty; the indicators, we have them on our hands. What we can say is that the object to recover a good dynamic passes, in the first place, to lower the transmission rate below 1. And today is the first day in a long time, in many weeks, that we have this transmission rate below 1. And we have to keep it up, because this transmission rate is about a number of cases that are extraordinarily high and that can't continue with that number of cases. That's why we have to mark ourselves as having less than a thousand cases of daily transmissions in order to recover normality. This number of cases is manageable for the system and manageable means that we don't have to sacrifice any other health action to allocate resources to do so. And so, as I said, the goal of a maximum of three hundred beds of ICUs occupied by Covid malalts. If we can achieve these indicators, we will enter a level of stabilization of the pandemic in Catalonia that will allow us to face the recovery of our social, economic and also many areas of personal and collective life that we have left behind and that we have sacrificed. We have to put this objective in the head, work without rest to get it and improve these indicators every day. It is the figures that will tell us whether the measures can be made more flexible or if they can be more restricted. I repeat: lower the rate of infection below 1, which we have begun to do and we have to consolidate it in a much more pronounced way; less than a thousand daily infections of Covid; less than three hundred patients to ICUs for Covid. These are the three targets. Let's work on it. The government won't stop doing it. We take difficult, hard measures and, as I said, if they are unpopular, it is the same; we will take them equally. Measures that, at the individual level, many people may feel that, from their individual point of view, they have no sense, but it is that the pandemic is collective. The Covid is social and cannot be fought from an exclusively individual perspective. And, therefore, we need this global look, together with the essential measures at the health level. It's our responsibility. The final reflection. The economic and social crisis is each time tougher and, therefore, I want to recognize the effort, every time bigger, made by the workers, the workers and the companies, and on behalf of the Government I commit myself and commit ourselves to moving on the ground to get the resources that we need to overcome this time so complicated that so many people are patenting in our country. But at no time do we have to forget that only during the last month in Catalonia have eight Covid's centers died, and that this below-the-concept cipher can normalize it. Tragedy can't normalize it, for as long as we're painted, we can't normalize these figures, because that's the only thing we can't recover, and so we have to focus on preserving what if we lose it, we can't recover it. And that's why life – life in its most basic dimension – must be the first one we have to save, so that this country returns to battling in everything that makes us feel alive: our social life, our work, our business, the institution, the public service to which we are destined, therefore, all, in our capacity, the illusions, the expectations of the future of our young people and also the security in the future of our great people. Tough weeks come. The government has decisions. These decisions are beginning to take effect, but we need to persevere and we need to follow the individual compromise and collect to overcome this second issue. This country is absolutely capable of this and much more, we are not absolutely convinced. Many thanks, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.129.0	Thank you, Vice President. After your intervention, we will pass the word to the President's Counsellor, Mrs Meritxell Budó, who requested it in accordance with Article 85.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.130.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Members, I appear here on behalf of the Government of Catalonia today in this chamber again, and just one_me after the intervention that in this same chamber I went to term in the specific plethora that we wanted to celebrate from the Covid-19 for the health situation. And as I did on that occasion, I can't start from another way that reminds once more of all those people who have lost their lives because of this pandemic, of all those people who have lost their esteem during this pandemic, and of all those people who are unfortunately still living today, the consequences of this pandemic. And as you know, and the vice president has already exposed them, the situation is so difficult to complex, and therefore, from the government of Catalonia, before these epidemiological data, before this raw reality of this pandemic that it strikes us again with this second wave, we have taken all the necessary measures to, in the first term, stop the rhythm of the contagion and, in the second term, bend the raven until we get some figures that allow us to return to a mobility without restrictions and to be able to realize all those educational, economic and cultural activities that, in the day of today, cannot last forever, that yes, the measures of prevention of distanza, of mans and of masking. But now we have to understand the situation, and the measures approved by the Government of Catalonia are absolutely necessary. We have to do it to avoid major evils and we have to do it taking into account the health sector, education, economics and also social. As a matter of fact, this is what we were going to do last April when we had that little bit of the first time, all of you will remember. And, in fact, since the WHO declared Covid as a pandemic last March, the Government of Catalonia, with President Torra in the lead, we have acted every moment with responsibility, rigorously and in advance to save lives and protect the citizens before this pandemic. We've done it all this time and we've been doing it, working on the premise that we're always making decisions quickly, useful and transformative, because we have a lot in this fight against the pandemic every minute that goes by without making a decision is a lost minute that can make the health situation worse, and we know that if the health situation worsens, the economic, emotional and social situation also worsens. And that's why we're acting, because we're a responsible government, and like we're a responsible government, we're defending and exercising the retention of accounts, and that's why we're here today, too, because the government from the pandemic instigator has appeared on multiple occasions in this chamber to make a retention of accounts around the country's situation and the measures that were being adapted. And as I think this point is very important, in fact, it's one of the points that drives advanced democracies, I'll do an analysis of the government of Catalonia's record of the pandemic. As you know, because all of you have participated, the Government has wanted to listen on different occasions to parliamentary groups long after this crisis, and the first time it was just before taking the first steps, in March, before closing the schools and universities, before closing the Conca d'Odena and before asking for the whole of Catalonia's sanctity. We then went to gather the parliamentary groups to alert them and to inform them about what is behind the mountain. And at the head of a couple of weeks we went back. President Torra summoned them to make a meeting, this was already telematics, and give them all the information we had. The president also requested a telematic appearance to the plenary, which for limitations of this chamber ended up being a video conference with all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to share all the information with you again. And then all the government advisors and advisors went to committee to degregate all the work that was done from the government and all the action plans that we had planned. Thus, in the control and parliamentary activity sessions, parliamentary groups have also had occasion, and have done so, to make the initial government impulse correspondents, as well as to make the corresponding control of our action, by means of oral questions, interpellations or multiple submissions requested by the advisors. I would also like to highlight the resolution resulting from the debate on the management of the health crisis in Covid-19, the measures taken to combat it and the planned actions of social protection and economic recovery, at the request of the same President of the Generality and to which the debate on the request for the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans was also added. The recall that in that debate, held between 1 and 3 July, the President explained to them enough the affect and consequences of the pandemic, the effects and implications of the State's decisions on Catalonia and the management of the Government of the Generality as to the main measures to be taken to deal with the emergency, especially in the health, care and residence areas, but also in other areas affected, such as education, tourism, culture, trade, sport, in the area of mobility and also security. Also the time-bound measures to contribute and maintain the productive capacity and inputs of workers and businesses. It also managed the recovery phase of activity reactivation, as well as all those social protection measures and the impulses of economic reactivation. And in that same debate, we also wanted to compare each and every member of this government to explain in more detail the measures taken by different departments. And also the reminder that only one week later, on July 7, we started another debate around the management of residences during the health crisis. And on the arrival of September, the general policy debate, where President Torra devoted much of his intervention – all of you must remember – to expand and update all the information on the health situation and all those measures carried out in the field of education, social and economic Emergencies. And only a few weeks ago, October 7, we were going to hold another monographic debate on the management of the pandemic. And why do I remember all this bookkeeping we've done? So, look, basically for two reasons: the first is because it shows that for the Government the issue that today is the object of treatment in this appearance is our priority and that all the councils follow the burden that President Tora made of us – they must remember – to concentrate all the efforts, all our policies and decisions here, that there is dedicated to the last four hours of the day, because we know that the country, we know that people have played a lot. And for another band, because we really believe that it is here in the Parliament of Catalonia that we should hold back, but also debate and reach consensus between the groups on measures to deal with the health crisis. But, in addition, you know that outside Parliament we have also maintained a direct channel of communication with groups through periodic meetings, such as the different Health Department officials with the Health spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups, and not even fifteen days ago, before announcing this new package of measures, we were going to hold a meeting with all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. And here we are in the package of measures of this second issue, a package that, as the Vice-President explained, could be summed up in two types: for one band, measures that will seek the restriction of mobility and social interaction, and, for another, active measures of social and economic protection; measures that aim to preserve health, the economy and education in our country. And as I said to the principle, we have to understand the current situation of epidemiological data, the fact is that we are beginning to see the impact of these measures, the measures are beginning to take effect; we are beginning to see some indicators that are already beginning to recast and, therefore, to decrease. But we also see that the rate of infection today is still too high. We don't have to lose sight of it. Let us hope that in the next few days we can continue to lower this rapidity of contagion, this famous R and that, moreover, we can begin to see also diminished pressure on the care network, which today is still high mass. And at this point I also want to recognize the role of all the citizens and make it from the most absolute empathy, because the measures are complex and affect our emotional well-being, and that is also salvation; because the situations are difficult for everyone and especially for all those workers, self-employed and entrepreneurs, who are directly patenting this economic crisis resulting from this health crisis. And aware of that, from the government of Catalonia we understand that we have to explain very well all the measures and we have to explain very well why all these measures and we have to explain very well what we can do and what we can't do because we don't have the competitions, because, unfortunately, we don't have the competitions. Because all the difficulty, the fatigue, the anger and the frustration, that we complement the measures and that we do it because we understand them and because we believe them, because we ourselves, we internalize them. Correspondence is that and not because they force us. And I'm sure and I'm convinced, in fact, that that's what most of our country's citizens do, because, besides, the object is like and the object we have all and the object is the same: it's salvation. And I remember that when we talk about salvation, we don't just talk about the absence of malalty; when we talk about salvation, we are also talking about everything that refers to physical well-being, but also to psychological, emotional and social well-being. And if these measures, as we say, begin to have an impact on epidemiological data, when we talk about mobility data, it still makes more tangible, in concrete terms, referring to the later part of the week, in the first one that has been in force this perimeter confinement of the municipalities, beyond this total confinement that we have made to the country of Catalonia. A time activated this municipal confinement, there have been drastic, very important downloads, respect to days equivalent to the year 2019 both in entry and exit data. For example, you're selling last week a 46_per_cent davalada in the metropolis and 40 in the big corridors, or with a larger descent still dissipated, a reduction compared to the previous year of 83_per_cent or 73_per_cent, respectively. And diumenge, also compared to a diumenge from the previous year, were kept these data around metropolity with a reduction in mobility of 84_per_cent. And that's thanks to everyone. But all these measures, as the Vice-President said, respond to a strategy to deal with the most difficult months that we still have ahead of us. A strategy that, as we have seen in the rest of the record, President Torra has already started pushing from the very first moment. And, as the vice president explained, this strategy of the government does not only work in short-term measures to make a difference in the needs of the highest urgency but also works in the medium and long term. And we have done so, from the government, with teams of multidisciplinary experts, and we have done so by rigorously analyzing the current situation so that we can design and implement measures and action plans that respond to the current and future needs of our country. And, yes, we do this to respond to current and future needs, and one of these more important responses is the need to invest in innovation and research. We need a clear bet to find the treatment for the Covid-19, which, as we have heard from several experts in our country, will be faster and more important than the cows in controlling this pandemic. Now, the analysis of the current situation also shows us a reality that all of you, Members and Members, should accept, and it is that in Catalonia we find ourselves tied with hands, we find ourselves tied with hands to give the economic response that we want, because we do not have all the competitions, nor do we have the funding just and necessary to be able to do it in the long run. Because in order to rescue workers, self-employed and entrepreneurs, the state government must completely change the course of its economic policies. I will, for example, lay down four concrete lines. The first is support for the pimes, autonomes and businesses: more credit and more liquidity. The second is suspension or moratorium in the payment of taxes, loggers and sub-administrations. The third is to access all types of international credits – all types of international credits. And on the fourth, be in debt whatever you want; to get out of this crisis we will have to be in debt, to be in debt as much as anyone else. And I'm sure these four lines that I just exposed to all of you don't come back and they already know them. First of all, because it is the type of economic policy that European countries follow, and second of all, because they must remember that Mr. Torra is asking the Government of the Spanish State since March. In fact, from the government we still ask, today, these measures to the government of the Spanish State, but the reality is that, at the moment, nothing is happening. In fact, from the government we wanted to ask the Spanish government for the state of alarm, yes, we asked them for the state of alarm; a state of alarm that would explain that it would be a state of totally decentralized alarm; a state of alarm that would allow us as the government to take all the necessary measures at every moment to deal with this health crisis; a state of alarm that would give us this legal framework, this legal framework, this umbrella in order to be able to take with the government our own decisions to fight this global pandemic, but in this case, to take the measures that we, like the Government of Catalonia, need to fight this pandemic. But the reality is, of decentralisation, nothing. Perhaps the time has come for all parliamentary forces to demand that we make commitments to the Spanish Government. And precisely speaking of the state of alarm, I would like to remind you that the fact that we had to resort to this appeal is the result of another failure on the part of the Government of the Spanish State, because last May – I remember all of you – President Pedro Sánchez reached an agreement with Citizens to activate all those mechanisms of measures or legislative reforms necessary to avoid having to resort again to the state of alarm. He committed himself to making a proposal within 15 days, and he did not, and then the vote came from another extension of the state of alarm. It compromised this with other groups – such as, for example, GNP – and the result, today, nothing. Or, better said, the result, today, is that in order to be able to apply all these measures to combat this second one, it was very important for us, because we had no other alternative, to resort again to the state of alarm. And the result is again that a government supposedly left, progressive and federal again denies the competitions, denies us this decentralisation so that we can take all the necessary steps to combat this crisis. Moreover, a state of alarm has been decreed that has not been accompanied by any type of measure to deal with the effects of restrictive measures, either to the general population or to certain sectors. However, even under the circumstances, the Government of Catalonia is determined that in this crisis, the city of our country will stand in the way; we are determined to respond to health needs, educational, economic, social and emotional needs. And I finish, and I end up wanting to remember a few words from President Torra, not two months ago, in the general policy debate. President Torra told us in that debate that, before uncertainty, we are building a country prepared for the challenge of the future and a country of equity, and, before complexity, we are a living country, a global country and a just country. And that's what we want to do, and that's what we need to do, and that's what we need to fight the pandemic, which is the main reason we're dealing with at these times, but also to build this country, socially just, that we want to give response to the real needs that the citizens of Catalonia want and ask us to face this 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.131.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.132.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a mention of all the victims of the pandemic, of those who have left us and of those who are fighting the disease, and also of those groups who are suffering the measures, often painful, but sometimes also necessary, to try to reduce the contagions of this pandemic. Having said that, and with regard to the assessment that Mr Aragonès and Mrs Budó's interventions deserve, first of all, we will enter into their assessment, but first of all I should refer to the fact that you already lack the credibility to manage this pandemic. You have received a torpedo in the flotation line of your credibility, you are a government seriously touched already by the suspicion, by the evidence, that you are taking advantage of the machinery of the Administration to work your friends. And you have done the worst that can be done in politics, which is not to isolate the cases, not to denounce them, not to point them out and not to take the relevant measures so that this does not happen again, but to deny the existence of the evidence. Look, you're not going to teach us what the presumption of innocence is. Of course, there is a presumption of innocence! At best, of the facts that are imputed to them, they do not come out condemned, at best – at best. There are fair trials here. Just like the listenings need the backing of a documentary proof that maybe you have to find the one in the Generalitat archives and maybe it's difficult. Maybe it's hard to get documentation from these half-secret riggers. And the only thing left for us, perhaps, is the recognition in the voices of the actors themselves of what was happening. Therefore, it is a disgrace that you, let us say, take your fleas off, when here Mr Vendrell, Mr Oriol Soler, Mr Madí, have not denied that the conversations that are coming to light are made by their own voice, that they were the ones who spoke. The fact that they are heard, that we are aware of those telephone interventions that seriously compromise three advisers of this government would deserve the government to say something; it would deserve the advisers, Mrs Vergés, not to say that it is a maneuver of the Civil Guard; it would deserve, Mr Aragonès, not to be thrown into the ground, sea and air..., Mrs Vergés, Mrs Vilalta, Mrs Capella, who is the lady representing justice in Catalonia, who is saying that nothing is happening here. It's a shame that you're losing all credit. We have heard terrible things in those interventions. And you guys are acting like this is a Civil Guard investigation. Obviously there is an independent judge from Barcelona, who has ordered them and who has obtained these listenings. You guys are obviating it. You, Mr. Aragonès, have said that I do the clown here, you have said, as if... well, let him know that he does not offend us, that he knows that I consider it a lack of respect, but relative, too. So let him know that he does not offend us, let him know that we are going to continue doing the same thing that we came to Catalonia when in 2006 the 3_per_cent was a cry, that in 2005 Mr Maragall told him right here, in this same Chamber, he told Mr Mas: « Yours have a problem that is said to be three percent. And now it turns out that we have a problem in Catalonia, which is that with the pandemic the requirements for public procurement competitions are lowered and the parasites come to profit, which come from Convergence and come from Republican Left. And you're denying it. And they call us, they tell us... the leader of the opposition tells him he's playing clown for reporting it. For we came to denounce precisely these things in Catalonia, Mr Aragonès. Now you're the power. You're making a convergent face, Mr. Aragonès, you're making a convergent face. [[Greetings.]] You're the same as usual, Mr. Aragonès. What does power have in Catalonia? Do we not know how to manage without using the Administration as a source of infumable clientelism that drains the resources of Catalans? You told my partner Susana Beltrán a moment ago, what are you doing with the funds in America, that you don't come here to explain what, that you don't explain it? You have an opacity barrier so we can't know what you do with everyone's money. And when evidence comes out with listening, you hide and say nothing. Mrs. Vergés, there are pictures of you eating with Mr. Vendrell. Mr Vendrell is a contractor from the Administration, who has said here that he has ghost companies, when he gathers the contracts; that he has said that he has problems..., that he was talking to you about some problems of some 2018 contracts. And he explained it here. She said to Mrs. Marta Rovira: "Call Vergés, call Bargalló, call Chakir and tell them to fix my things. This is what we have known! And you go with the tale that this is the Spanish state, the Civil Guard and all these things. And don't say yes, yes, yes, Mrs Vergés; it's amazing. But, look, I'm telling you, your disqualifications or your insults won't stop us – they won't stop us. We represent all those Catalans who don't suck from the boat. [[Some applause.]] We are the ones who represent the Catalans, the other Catalonia, who have been watching you for decades, extracting public resources. That Catalonia. We haven't taken part in that, we're not. You, Republican Left, the ancient Convergence, or as it is now called, yes, live from it. Mr. Madí, the former right hand of Mr. Artur Mas, there he is putting his hand, too. Well, well, I'm telling you, your reticences are normal, your disqualifications are normal. It is what power does when those who do not have, those who are not sucking from all that power catch them, denounce them, have evidence, have conversations, and you do absolutely nothing but divert attention. Look, there's a commandment that says, "You won't steal. Well, you'd have to add "you're not going to steal in a pandemic. In the pandemic it is even more ugly, Mr Aragonès. And you guys should be doing something. Look, in this monographic plenary we've found the usual. You said: "You criticize us and do not make proposals," said Mr Aragonès. Look, our proposals... I don't know where you are, Mr. Aragonès, because maybe you don't know about the proposals you make Citizens. Perhaps you do not know that we have submitted up to three documents: one on a general basis, one on employment and the other on social measures. And perhaps you don't remember that here we had a full monograph about the Covid, requested by us, in which 80_per_cent of the measures presented by Citizens were approved. Mr. Aragonès, are you telling me we don't make proposals? You're telling me? Please, Mr. Aragonès. If you do not know our proposals at best, it is that you do not read them, as Mrs Vergés did when we presented the health proposals to you. Look, about Mrs. Budo. Listen, your intervention is summed up in that the fault is basically Madrid, in that the fault is Madrid. I recognize you: yes, Madrid is also to blame. What is the fault of Madrid? Do not make a national plan that truly organizes the pandemic by giving autonomy the broad lines of intervention so that everyone has the same opportunities in front of the pandemic. True, the Madrid government hides behind the autonomy. The Government of Madrid is not promoting support for affected groups in the absence of autonomy that does not take it either. Everyone here hides behind someone else. And you hide behind what the Madrid government doesn't do. We recognize him: the Government of Madrid, the Government of Mr Sánchez, the Government of Spain, is not up to the circumstances in this pandemic. But neither do you, Mrs. Budó. And finally, in the few two minutes we have left. I have a lot to talk about here about criticism of health, about residences – which my colleague Naomi has asked in this very question – about the economy and the collectives that we are leaving absolutely helpless and desperate, about employment – about employment – and all the people affected. But, look, we have a mission basically. You may tell me that I act like a clown or that I am a clown, you may lose the papers when you denounce what is happening here in Catalonia, but we will continue to collaborate and make proposals, Mr Aragonès. We're gonna keep doing this. That way, don't worry. And we will also be harsh against corruption and against the inefficiency of your Government. I'm telling you, too. And it's okay. Look, where I've been autonomous that I've had to close the blind, we'll be there. Where a worker has been unemployed and is awaiting payment of an ERTE, we will be there. Where there are entities that feel helpless because they have to act without government support like those that protect mental health, we will be there. And wherever a Catalan is suffering, we'll be there too. And we will certainly not be where the Socialist Party, which asks you a question about corruption, you say « yes, yes, I have already asked, I have asked around and there was nothing, and he already..., Mr Iceta already gives himself up. And neither will we be where the commons are, subscribing to the Civil Guard conspiracy theory. We do not understand that, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, nor do your voters understand it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] You've wasted years, decades, stealing at full hands, but now in the middle of the pandemic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.133.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.134.0	... we will not tolerate – I finish now, Mr President – one more scandal. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.135.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.136.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government in place of the President of the Generality, members of the Government, I begin, as was done by other speakers, recalling the victims of the Covid-19, their families, their friends. We want to accompany them in the feeling, in the pain we share with them. I also take advantage to encourage those who are struggling against the malalty, who are patenting it at these times, cheering them up, getting mixed up. And I'm also beginning to recognize the efforts of professionals who are fighting the pandemic first line. We have said this a lot for weeks and months, but I must insist, because this health crisis unfortunately continues and we have it for Estonia. It's a crisis with dramatic figures. I said myself in this Faristol, with the motto of July's specific plethora, that a crisis of this natural nature we must not turn it into a camp subscribed to by the party struggle. I'm keeping it. And maybe still with more emphasis. And that means making a containment effort. And I do it out of responsibility, out of conviction and above all because citizenship deserves it and claims it. This is no time for party struggles or electoralism. It's not the time to say that a government makes it fatal when it turns out you're ruling other places and you can't even show big faces, right? I say for the communities of Madrid or Andalusia. Now's not a time to throw the dishes in the head. It is a time to act with loyalty, firmness and responsibility, because it is at times like this that a country effort: an effort of administrations and governments, of course, but also an effort of people, of every citizen. Collaboration between governments and establishing the necessary coordination and control mechanisms is essential because the measures in place are effective, with a very active role of the local community and the local world, the municipal police, the squadrons and the security forces of the State. Our parliamentary group has said this from the very first moment: calia, and cal, add effort. Callia, and calli, build trust and work together. Call, and call, a co-ordinated, loyal cooperation among all levels of government. That is why the Government of Catalonia counts, and will count, with our support. That's why we're still complaining – which hasn't happened yet in our country – about a pact for economic recovery and social reconstruction. The pact for salvation, of which President Torra spoke so much. We have also offered our cooperation to prepare secure elections. Here we are to be able to follow up on the measures taken in the past few days and weeks to analyze its health, social and economic impact and, also, to give to the citizenry certain information and the tranquility and confidence that we are in conditions of giving. We have had a health crisis, which we now call, because everyone understands us, of a _second on, but it has been so connected at the end of the first, that, really, it costs seeing, sometimes, changes. And it's true that this second one may have taken us back to the counter, because we certainly find ourselves with a health system weakened by causes that come from far away. Two years of retailing will not take place one day for another, one year for another, and the crisis of the Covid, among other things, has more than exposed the health deficiencies of years and years and retailing. I'll talk to you about one thing. There are still many consultants and CAPs in Catalonia. And one of the first things we want to insist on is the need to equip these centers with human and material media so that they can assist their patients. The patients of the Covid and those of the non-Covid, phoneically, face-to-face, but avoiding the widening of the waiting lists, which are widening. Primary care is crucial, it helps prevent, first line care and avoids hospital collapse– and, indeed, the vice president spoke to us about the need to avoid it –, even many residents, many schools and must follow up on patients who are not affected by Covid-19 but, in change, they do have pathologies that require care and attention. Once again, as in the first wave, the most affected sectors are the most vulnerable: the big people, the ones who need them more. The number of infections has multiplied – they tell me by eight – to the residents and the government has already had to intervene four centers. In general, we all complain, and add, more resources, cribrats, clear criteria for action, which surely is not enough with recommendations. There are many centers that are demanding that there really be standards, decisions, care floors, that are absolutely mandatory. What else did we miss? Epidemiological surveillance services. I can reinforce them. It is true that we are now at a time when, probably, contact tracing is difficult because we are in this phase of community expansion, but are able to stop it and therefore we will find ourselves again from here a few weeks with the need to strengthen tracking capabilities. The 061 continues col·lapsat, to a great extent. There are a lot of tricks, actually, and you have to give these more personal services. And the contract of some potential workers has not been renewed and, therefore, we are wasting the time needed to train new people to be incorporated. Sometimes it seemed to us that there was a lack of coordination on the part of the government. And then – and I say I'm going to go back, but maybe it's the first – we're more intense with the dialogue, the negotiation, the complicity, with the healthcare professionals. All our support, a support that has to do with salary conditions, contractual conditions, working conditions, which require professional and emotional support. It has been – and I think that we all agree on this – precisely the efforts of health professionals who have been better able to respond to a crisis like this. Now that you're in politics, let's match this effort. The crisis also has a size not only health care, but also economic and social. We were very concerned about the increase in inequalities in a land such as education. Education has to be face-to-face and, therefore, we agree with the Government that any impact on the schools must be the last possible measure, because it has been shown that both the teachers, like the students, as the administrative staff and the servants have been able to cope with this crisis and today our schools are safe. We can never tell a cent, but they're sure to do their job. Now, it's true that in times of confinement we failed. There's a digital lock that hasn't closed yet. There are still many families who do not have the necessary information and connectivity mechanisms. And that requires more resources, more resources, and we would like to know – we always say – when they will apply, apart from what the Spanish Government has already announced. And the vice president always says to me: "If we already do. But it's that we don't want the big numbers, Vice President – we want them too – but we want the detail, we want to know where, concretely, and where, concretely, the resources of the Generality have been allocated. It is true that a crisis like this has posed a challenge, and with difficulty, and with extremes, all governments, all of them. And I think we have to do everything we can to ensure that governments do everything possible, and what happens is that it is true that, before a pandemic like this, "all possible always seems insufficient. You can always say, "I'm late, and I'm sorry, and there's not enough. This is a statement that endures the passage of time or the government or the area in which it applies. Now, we do want the most information, the most transparency, the only one that can generate the most confidence, which is what the citizens claim. We want to strengthen the social protection system, because the social effects – and the vice president said – depend very much on the social class, on the economic situation of each family, of each person, and we need to recognize that this crisis, like so many others, ends up getting more out of the weaker sectors of our society. And we cannot afford an increase in inequalities or that there is a significant part of our society that is left, therefore, left, we would say, from God's hand, left of the necessary help. Thirdly, the economic crisis. Here too we can all say..., say: "The resources we are putting in place to try to rescue the most affected sectors are insufficient. Here the government really has to tell us what it is doing; apart from the commitments already made, how they are being implemented; if it really is valued..., that there is enough or need more. And then there are sectors that... some of us haven't gotten in yet. For example, I saw myself the other day with representatives of the night octopus and they said to us: "We are the first to be closed down, the ones who see the reopening more and there are no concrete measures to help us. And here the vice president is right: we are not only talking about the measures that the Government of Catalonia can take, as well as those that can take the Government of Spain or even some great gatherings. And we have to go hand in hand to make sure we get to everything where we need it with as much force as possible. It is true that the State will have transferred, when the year ends, €3,225 million to deal with extraordinary expenses. Fifteen days ago the Councilwoman Budo said: with the additional margin of deficit, we were able to incorporate more resources. What we are asking for is more strength, more help, because there are sectors that really the second year has come to them as a species of clatillade from which they have hard doubts that they can get out. Some thought that after the first, with a lot of difficulty and a lot of precariousness, they could move forward, but now we have told them among all – the government does it with our support – that it must be retenguin, that it must freeze its activity. President, what we want is to make it clear again before the chamber that we support its measures, the measures it has taken. It is not true that there are no general criteria. Fortunately, in Spain we have an interterritorial council of salvation, in which all autonomous communities participate, and it has established criteria for general action. But it is very good that the government of each autonomous community is precisely the one that applies them, models them, to the needs of each place. And this governance, which adds proximity to general-type criteria in which communities participate and that its authority is the highest in this new phase of the state of alarm, I think it's a model that needs to be improved but it's the good one. I'm done, President– Vice President, I'm sorry, in place of the President. We want you to watch us by your side. We want to get out - in, we want to give the Catalan society confidence in itself and the good functioning of the Government. We don't let ourselves be cut off by the party or the sound; let's look for efficiency, let's look for collaboration, because in the end, if you find out how better the government is going to get the Catalan society, which is what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.138.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning again to everyone and everyone. Obviously, the first thing we want to do is add to the Covid's record of mortal victims and also send people to all those people who are going through this disease right now. That said, you've come here today to tell us that we're responsible like the government. Actually, practically, we always anticipate each other. We just have a little communication problem that won't happen again. And the third thing they came to us to say is that central government is bad, it's bad, huh? I think this is the summary of his interventions. Still, I think in the middle of the day, in a situation as complicated as we're going through, we're all in the hand, because if now's not the time, you'll tell me when... And they do want to make, therefore, some considerations in the health, economic and social fields of the most constructive will. The first thing we want to say is that we are at a key moment, we are at a point of inflection where any forget, where the slightest mistake, can bring us to a residential confinement, with the consequences so harmful that it has in all senses, and also to a collapse of the health system. And we want to point this out because we have been a few days ago, so, in scenes that are even more complicated than we are now, and therefore, it is more important than ever to insist on this need for anticipation, planning, and allocating all the resources that we have and that come to us. It is true that with all the difficulties we are coming – and you too have made yourself known – news that are moderately optimistic. We could listen a couple of days ago to the coordinator of the Covid Follow-up Unit, the Jacobo Mendioroz, say how the name of the contagion was reduced and also how we see that the rate of Rt, therefore, is also reduced, but still we can't afford the slightest mistake, because, as I say, we are at a time of maximum fragility. And these numbers, too, I think should be put in value, answer to an immense – I would say immense – social effort. People are returning to doing extraordinary things in a situation of so much complexity and so complicated: they are staying at home; they are reducing social life to a minimum; they are maintaining the levels of work activity while taking care of children and children, while also taking care of dependent people, of the great people. Moreover, they are exposed, all those who are on the front line, therefore, to an even greater possibility of contagion, with all the stress and emotional load that this supposes. And, therefore, I think it must be said loud and clear that what people are doing right now has only one word, which is empathy; "empathy, with capitals. And I also want to highlight an empathy that we are missing from this Government of the Generality. It can't be. It can't be that the government started a week of debate on the opening of nightclubs and the night octopus, and ended the week, then, discussing the closing of bars and restaurants. It cannot be that the government takes a measure as hard as the closure of the restoration and of the aesthetic centers, that we have never questioned the measure itself, but that today – it was when it began to speak of aid – first 40_million euros and now, before this small amount, they have had to rectify. It can't be that the government is talking to more than just you see in such a difficult crisis and these characteristics and that it is a vagina generating uncertainty for party reasons, as has happened with the topic of teletreball. It can't be that the government says contradictory things at the same time in two different languages, because in the end people don't know what they can do and what they can't do. There can be no announcement of millions of investments in the public street, through institutional publicity, without still having the money confirmed or that they have been unable to call the opposition groups to try to agree any of these parties to see if we have any proposals for where they could go. And it can't be that the vice president, Mr. Aragones, goes all day with the calculator in his hand when we're at a time when what we need is to spend to save the peppers, the families, the workers and the autonomes. Before she said to Councilwoman Budó: "We must be indebted to whoever comes to us. It's time to borrow whatever it takes. So, it's not there now, but I would tell Councilwoman Budo that it's the economic vice president, Mr. Aragonès, who needs to be told. Therefore, we need clarity and strength. They know that we – and they know this because we don't stop giving the tab – have insisted by active and passive that we need a national pact for salvation. We don't just say it, experts say it, it's approved in this Parliament, I would say, if I'm not mistaken, for unanimity. Professionals also say it's the most adjunct, and, besides, I think it's a question that's common sense. You've decided not to listen to us, you've decided to go on the march. So, before this appearance, where we didn't come to give too much data and where they basically dedicated themselves to saying that we did well, we have little communication errors, the central government does everything wrong, we do have some questions about the management that you are doing with the pandemic. The first one. You have begun to move the reinforcement of health professionals, but we have no knowledge of how many, what five profiles, or where these professionals will go. They don't know if they're going to mental health, if they're going to hospital or if they're going to primary school. I'm making this observation because we're afraid that the primary once again became the poor German. It is true that we now have a crisis in the hospital, but I also want to remind you that we are running a crisis in the primary, and that the primary professionals are those who are managing and responding to the schools, to the residences; they have a huge amount of bureaucracy and they also follow clearly the chronic diseases and any city that, for one cause or another, is found badly. So here we ask them to know how many professional reinforcements we are talking about, to which areas they will be assigned. And they also want to make a warning: that not all those people who have a disease that is not Covid, who follow the chronic disease follow with the periodicity that is done before the Covid, and also that they pass the bureaucracy of the consultations. Secondly, we would also like to know, before the increase in ICUs' occupation, how many cases there are derived to the private. Why am I asking this question? So, I'm asking this question because we know that surgical interventions are already out of schedule and visits are out of schedule. Therefore, operations are already deprogramming and waiting lists are growing for when this second time. And all this is happening while the private is not at the maximum of its ability. And the same thing I'm saying to the private ICUs, I also want to extrapolate to the labs. It cannot be that the laboratories in the Valley of Hebron are collapsing, it cannot be that the tests – and you know that last week was like this – were late, the PCR tests, in having the results more than a week – have concrete cases where that is the case – and that, on the other hand, the private laboratories are not working at the most. Therefore, by hospitals and laboratories, we need not to start deprogramming interventions, not to grow waiting lists, not to trigate the results of PCR tests more than forty-four hours, while the private is not at the maximum of their ability. I, speaking of the private, also wanted to take advantage of it to raise a question. The question is whether we are going back to being the payers who pay for private sanitation more expensive than the rest of the state per patient derived from ICUs in private. I think it would be fair for you to rethink it, because I want to remind you that you were paying per patient derived from the private ICU the most price from the whole state. I think it would be fair this time to change it. You're more concerned that he wanted to plant in this toilet block. To the Pandemic of the Covid is also adding – and you have also made reference to it in some way – another pandemic, which is the pandemic of mental illness and addictions, which we know is growing strength in later months. It is clear that uncertainty is the worst thing that leads to being human. More than half of the citizenry already recognizes that it has feelings of depression, despair, lack of concentration. In fact, the WHO has already said that 60 percent of the world's population is suffering from pandemic fatigue, for uncertainty, for restrictions. We're seeing how the anxiety is spreading, the generality of desanimity, the sadness, the power. And, therefore, what do we need? So, we need a plate of shock for mental salvation. We have approved it more than once in this Parliament, but the problem is that it is not being carried out, it is not taking place and, moreover, I believe that it must be a place to be generous and to be attended to by all that person who needs it, and that there can be very different cases, from professionals of primary care, of hospital, of residences, who are in the first line, exposed more than anyone else to the virus, but also all those people who have lost their jobs, people who have passed their confinements in solitude, people who are at risk and who, therefore, are more exposed and more vulnerable to the virus. The casuistic is a lot, the anguish is spreading and, therefore, we also need to go from the hand of all these people and feel accompanied. Since the Barcelona Assembly, there has already been a one-million-dollar reinforcement in this sense, in the Pla de salut mental. And we also need the government of the generality to move forward. And to finish this topic, I also wanted to ask him about the residences. During the first wave they died close to five thousand opinions and had to our residences. And we'd like to know which passes have been given to ensure that, in this second one, the same does not happen. We know that there is a lack of professionals exaggerated to the residences and, therefore, we need to know when these reinforcements will be incorporated and how many reinforcements we are talking about. I see I'm running out of time. It's been very short for me, but I do want to end up talking about the need for cooperation, which we're holding hands with. This is not the time to make partisan battles and we certainly need them, because we also see how the extreme right is climbing our heels. And there's nothing better about the extreme right-wing people in distress and governments that aren't on the side of the city. So let's all join together, because if not, as I say, they're climbing our heels and entering all the most popular barrels in our cities. We need an anti-feixist alliance, which also strengthens public policies not only to fight against the pandemic, against the economic crisis, against the social crisis, but also against the extreme right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of Popular Unity Candidates. It has the word Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.140.0	Good morning to all, Counselor, Counselor, Vice President. Since March, more than fifteen thousand people have died in the Catalan Countries, because of the Covid, and the majority in Catalonia. Mr. Pere Aragonès said in his intervention that the lives cannot be recovered and is certain, but they can have a compromise to repair these deaths and take responsibility and, above all, ensure that the errors that have led to this brutal mortality caused by Covid are not repeated. We've told them many times, the weakened history of the public sector, the successive privatisations and the sanitary retailing, which have not recovered, have brought us to the situation where we are now. I think this is already a basic analytical agreement to hear the situation we're in. And this situation of health crisis leads us to economic and social consequences that have already been discussed and that are known to all. The second one, which is what we are dealing with today and for which we are here, forces us to analyze and to do or give a critical look at the actions due to the government in the past seven months. Today we are not in March, today we are in November; we are not at the time when the crisis of the Covid struck us almost without notice to all but seven months later. And, therefore, from the CUP we are very critical with the management that has been done and we ask ourselves... Four of the main councils, which are responsible for managing those most important aspects of the crisis of the Covid: Greeting, Education, Economy and Work, are led by Esquerra Republicana. And we wonder how we might not be or are not articulating a left-hand response to the pandemic? A clear answer from the left. Someone asked a few days ago: Can there be a class answer to the pandemic? So much. And you, the Government of the Generality, this bicephalic government that is presented here with a double veil, obviously the consequence of repression... – today we also remember that we would like Quim Torra who was here, who has been unjustly disqualified –, this bicephalic government that today lays down or explains the situation to us has sorted a way, has sorted a class look and is not prioritizing the working class and its needs. It said that the structural situation of public salvation and of the services and of the rights and of the public services and its dismantling has been adopted..., there has been a management that we understand to be doubtful, of its governments. We get to a second wave of contagion knowing that the way it went down in June didn't work. I believe that this is a first recognition that can be made between all of us, the descalation and the measures that have taken place in the summer have not worked without public guarantees to prevent us from becoming infected through testing, tracing and facilitating the isolation of infected people; testing, tracing and facilitating the isolation of infected people, have not worked and this is the political responsibility that you are. The situation in which we find ourselves in the second wave shows that they have failed like the government and so we are convinced that there is another way to live, we are also convinced that there is another way to govern and, therefore, there is another way to manage the crisis of the Covid. Not only with restrictive measures, not only with measures of limitation of freedoms, not only carrying on the scales of individuals individually, but ensuring that people are better and better. We have had enough of insisting, during all these months, on focusing on those areas where there was focus: in teaching, in general residences, in the field of work and not just the CUP, but the official reports from the epidemiological surveillance network. We should add public transport, which we are fully aware that the skills are from the State and the AMB, but we would like to see a leadership of the Generality and Councillor Damia Calvet, per, u, help people understand how it may not be possible to get out of the house later than the night gods, but that they can get into a crowded meter every morning to go to work. U, to clarify, to give explanations to the people. And, two, to improve this situation of public transport, let a CSIC report tell us that it is also one of the important focus of contagious diseases. How are you protecting people? How are they protecting us? How are we making people safe to work? Jo, every day I take the train to come here, and I assure you, I don't see any clear people. The main symptom of this weakness that our analysis of his government shows is precisely that we have to apply restrictive measures to the limit already, because everything they have done before has not worked and because, we remember, this is November and not March. We insist on it: we believe that they have failed; this does not mean that it is not possible to improve. We– and, yes, you, too – we are after, society we are after that if not the dues are fired the contagious. Mr. Pere Aragonès, governments can do more – I don't quote Mrs. Budo, because it's not there. Governments can do more and they have to do more, by responsibility. We demand responsibility from you, responsibility and compromise with the people, with the working people of this country. They have acted irresponsibly, with this bicephaly, contradict themselves with the government, without speaking clearly, without having any guarantees that they are speaking with a fair balance and with truth to the people of our country. They do what is important to stop this increase in infection: they force to telework – compulsory teletreball accompanied by labor rights–; they put private laboratories at the service of the people to reduce the waiting times of the PCRs; they ensure that private hospitals are placed at the service of public health without counter-performance, because it is a major good, there can be no public hospitals making money with the ills of Covid-19, cannot be – it cannot be. And today in this country there is a social majority who agrees with this; we respond to this social majority. There's one thing that's common sense: there can't be hospitals that benefit while our public health is at the point of col·lapse. Guarantee teachers and teachers until they can guarantee the unfolding in the necessary groups. We guarantee the right to education and guarantee the right to decent work for all teachers and teachers. Let's talk about all the big people's residences. We have proposed these questions on various occasions, and we are not the only group, those who preceded me have also proposed some of these questions, but they act not only on the spot in Parliament, but only to the people; they are in Palau. Listening to the people, there's an obvious social unrest on the street. The lack of concrete solutions is leading to despair one part every time more important of the popular classes of this country, and we die them: stop being so irresponsible, don't let the people hang, their responsibility is to help the people who in this country are punishing themselves twice. The vice-president said: "It will not shake our hand with major restrictive measures; of course it will, but these major restrictive measures to prevent contagious diseases must go hand in hand with social measures, if it is not hopeless. It is impossible to sustain a country that has lived with, a country that must have..., that must immediately ban the statures in the sub-administrations, that must effectively halt the denunciations, that must guarantee a basic income. I insist that the vice president say: "We will apply unpopular measures. Do you know what's unpopular? Generate hope in the hundreds of families who are being painted to be denuded and who today make us a press wheel come to drum and silver a decree against denoundations. How can you dare do that? And I'm talking about something because there's already, as you know better than I... there's already a law that forbids naming families in a vulnerable situation, and it's not complete. What changes the new decree they put on the table? To make a decree to ask that it is complete what you say the law when you judge and move away and will continue to denominate your people from home is to play with the hope of thousands of families; this is indeed unpopular, Mr Pere Aragonès: one denunciation every hour only in Barcelona, and Catalonia continues before everything, in the wake, of the outpouring of denunciations. We have many to each great master, to each fund of reversal, expropriate floors, put ourselves seriously to work to complete the regulation of the loguers. One day an internal instruction is not allowed to allow squadron movements to execute charges without a court order and to issue a decree, in which we almost understand that it is like a propaganda operation..., a decree is published that says that "the moves will ask before they give any first report to social services. It can't be done. An internal instruction can't be made that says "they can call out without the court order and let them see that they will be guaranteed with a public service report. And we can read that there's propaganda with this, and there's the popular pressure of a housing movement that has put a look at you forward, not just to you, but to the whole country, seeing as a few minutes, an estina, before the rest of the squad's moves begin to disown families with underage. We're talking about who makes the major sacrifices; that's what you decide as government. Who sacrifices the most: the autonomes at bars and restaurants or big businesses that today are still getting rich for the very management of the crisis? Who makes these sacrifices? People have to; the workers have to stay without work, to stay without home, to come the moves and make us out of the house; to find the CAP closed; the parents and the seas have to not fill the refrigerator; by the bottom of the food bank. We have for the misery that will come, and the only antidote for that is trust. Trust is built with concrete measures, and these measures must serve to eradicate poverty, and I only know a way to eradicate poverty: to redistribute wealth. Who makes the sacrifices? It can't be that the people who suffer the most, the people who work, the thousands and thousands of people who are grappling with the lists of the story follow those who make the greatest sacrifices. Therefore, to eradicate misery, which will eradicate the por: redistribution of wealth. And in this sense, we offer our help to weave majorities in this Parliament, but also to weave majorities – and I ended up, president – outside, on the street, of people who are proposing alternatives to the way you are managing the pandemic. We are at your disposal to do this; to generate and create a tax on the great riches, to redistribute the wealth, because it is the only form...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.141.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.142.0	...to eliminate the misery that will come, and, therefore, to eradicate why the popular classes of this country are living.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and has the word of deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.144.0	Well, thank you, President. I would like to begin this intervention, first of all, by conveying our tribute, obviously, to the families of the people who have left us, to the people who have left us, our support for the people who are now painting the disease and, obviously, also the support for those people who are painting more difficultly the economic consequences of this disease. That said, the responsibility of opposition in democracy and in a situation like this is obviously to point out shortcomings and also to propose alternatives. In relation to the alternatives, we transferred them – at that time, Mr Quim Torra was president – a document of thirty-one pages, which I do not know if you read it, Mr Aragonès, but I propose that the review, especially in the part of economic revival. I believe that there we are proposing things that have worked elsewhere, not only in the rest of Spain, but also in Europe, that you have not tried, and that, beyond the prudence in health care measures that we also translate into that document, frankly I believe that in economic recovery your Government is showing very severe shortcomings. And this is the other part that concerns the people of the opposition, which is to explain constructively, but clear and bluntly, the shortcomings that we are finding in their government action, and which would, basically, place on six axes. I'll try to be as telegraphic as possible. The first is the fight between the governing partners, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, which you yourselves recognize, even before the control session, someone has made a point of the issue. So he can't rule. That is to say, if you continue with your internal bars, it is completely impossible that you can devote enough energy to govern in a critical situation as we are living. The parent's a once-in-a-lifetime, or this is unbearable. Because they're already public statements, social networks..., that's what's said a no stop. So, I'm hanging up on these internal bars once, because that's untenable. According to the question, deliberate concealment of information during decided periods of the pandemic. You, in fact, said it textually and pointed out that you have never stored any information; so you have done it repeatedly, in some cases even explained it – said Mrs Vergés, in the first resurgence of July, who had hidden information so as not to generate alarm. As if the people were small children unable to assume... Yes, in the case of Lleida's comarques, you said so, Mrs Vergés, in your moment. Sometimes it's not just concealment of information, other times it's that information is simply delirious. In the mornings of TV3, to the question asked to Mrs Vergés – I quote textually – "if they had localized the rebounds? Mrs Vergés' answer was also textually repeated on two occasions: "We know, but we don't know," we know, but we don't know. Vaja, a very curious way to move serenely and calmly to the citizenry. Three. Inability to manage and coordinate a scientific team operating precisely because of the intestinal struggles they have between the governing partners and not because of lack of talent in Catalonia as experts, which we have, and some of the best in Europe. A paradigmatic case is that of Mr Oriol Mitjà, who also said that "all of you should lose your place of work in your own incompetent elections, including you, Mr Aragonès; including you. Four. Tank without compensation to key sectors of our economy. You have spoken of compensations, but you have not been able to explain them to them..., thread by thread, because basically of compensations, as the sector says, few and almost non-existent in some concrete sectors. And it will allow me to tell you that in this case in concrete, I grow up before the sector that you can tell me. But it is that, besides, it is not only lack of compensation, it is that the gap in decisions has been in some cases also delirious: one day announce the opening of Catalan discos and the debt – but it was the debt – announce the closure of the entire ocean sector and restore it to Catalonia. Go, also a very curious way to translate reliability, trust, security to the citizenry and above all hope, hope to be able to overcome a situation of these characteristics. Five. Keeping tax charges to collections that are now at zero admissions: zero, plus, always carrying the sacrifices to the private, which we can accept an idea, and in some of us we will bring to the Constitutional the limitation of the price of lloger, we understand that, for example, with a temporal limitation, they are attached to the rebus cell, which has been spoken, during a very concrete period, for, among comets, "socializing the sacrifice, that it is not only a sector that must renounce the cent_percent of what it earns, but that everyone must assume that something has to be sacrificed. You menys, the Administration, the Government. You don't have any type of internal detail, you don't have any type of sacrifice in terms of public administration. You haven't talked about this, Mr. Aragones. Neither a sacrifice nor a measure of austerity in public management, which would be economically necessary, would be a positive message to the citizenry. And yes, the latter – I have tried to summarise those that are most relevant – to the chaos of the residences, which caused the withdrawal of the competences of Mr. El Homrani, have added presumed – presumed – networks of traffic of influences that would affect his party. We announce that when parliamentary processing allows us to request a commission of inquiry into the issue. Of course, I place special emphasis on the word'suppressed', but you do not mean that you must not give explanations and above all make political decisions to move a message of peace and of the utmost honesty to the citizen. If you are dedicated to dwelling behind the stellate, which is what you did today, seeing things that have nothing to do with the stellate, you will be doing a little favor to the citizenry and the prestige of your government. I am saying this because the information that appears about Mr. Vendrell and others is extraordinarily troubling. Finally, you're good at defending yourself as a member of your party; I'm afraid the effect is not reciprocal, so we've been able to read and listen to it in the last few days. But I end by reiterating one question, I end by reiterating the presumption of innocence and the presumption of innocence. I also say this – and I finish this – because you bring years of talking every day – to phone conversations of judicial investigations affecting members of my party, and at the same time they spoke to you, when they did not affect you, nor the presumption of innocence. I did do it to you. They never claimed to life at that time that they would flee or that they would fight against what you have just defined as political tackiness. Home, it's a complicated fight, I can assure you, I don't think it's enough to fight against 'political tackiness', but I don't think it's even now the most priority issue a ruler has, to fight against political tackiness. They ask for a little consistency in this subject of escorts, because clearly, you, I insist, have dedicated yourselves to doing something else. As you are used to saying in these cases, that each stick will hold its candle, because, Mr Aragonès, if it were finally confirmed that some elements of its party have taken advantage of a pandemic, a human crisis like never before seen, to generate this type of client network, we would be ahead of one of the most immoral episodes of Catalonia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.145.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Deputy Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.146.0	Bona tarda, Vice-President of Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We're here to help the people of this country, we're political to help our people. We want to serve the citizenry and build together a better country for everyone, a country that guarantees opportunities and guarantees a future worthy of everyone, that generates progress and that never leaves anyone behind, that has good public services that allow us to respond to difficult times like today. This is our project, so we're in politics. That's what it feels like to everything we do, and above all it feels when it's more necessary, like now. That is why we will continue to do everything that is necessary at this time to help the people, and that is what our Government is doing, which is what the Government of the Generality is doing, to take the necessary measures to fight against this virus, to save lives, and to bring it along with harsh restrictions, but always with economic measures that help the most affected sectors and that kill the day of social change with the margin that we have, knowing that, unfortunately, we are only a spoiled autonomy, and not the republic that would actually allow us to help our people. The repte is capital, we know that. The evidence we have in front of us is very complex and very difficult. This pandemic, which is global, affects, and affects our home a lot, affects Catalonia a lot, and we have seen how this acceleration has been enormous throughout Europe, but also our home, and this virus is changing everything. This pandemic will understand life, salvation, quality of life, security, the emotions of all of us. An epidemic that we're learning how it works the same time we live it. The whole world, everyone, is making the same efforts, the same learnings. We're all experiencing the same thing, and we're in the same situation, learning, trying, maybe even wronging ourselves at some point, and making sure it's in a lot of others, but no doubt, we'll all just leave it to ourselves. No doubt about what we're up against: helping people, being next to people, giving them everything, trying to do it the best possible. This is our compromise. And at this point there is a clear objective: to avoid the health crisis, to be able to manage this second question with the necessary resources and capacity, to always put life at the center, to put the social fabric and product at the center so that the country can get out. And we will, I'm not convinced. We are already beginning to see how the measurements are giving the first positive results, but much work remains to be done. These last few days to see the result of the job well done. We see how the reproductive rate of the disease, which is already famous for all of us RT, is, and today, by the way, we can say that it is below 1, and the risk of resurgence also went down every day consecutively. And this just confirms that these difficult measures work, that anticipating, that being the first, that looking more at the world than not at the State, that making the toughest decisions, such as locking bars or restaurants or reducing mobility, was a certainty. But there's not enough, and that's why more measures have been taken, and that's why we'll still cheat a few days to know the results, but we're sure they'll be positive again, as we're sure that none of these decisions have been easy or pleasant, but the vice president said, we need to take them to save lives. At this point we have to socially end the country because then we can continue to have a country. If they don't stop now, they won't be in time, and then we'll have to stop for many more days. We're working to save life and save less time and save the economy and the country. Anticipating us is the main value, it's the main job we can do today. And although we're stopping the level of infection, we need to keep working, because one thing is to stop and the other is to drop the crow, and we're still at a very high level. Unfortunately, the hospital staff are noting these days the events of the last weeks, because they are the last of the chain. Inputs and numbers of people arriving in intensive care units grow and continue to grow, but in this area we also have hope. The system and the healthcare staff are behind it, and it's a lot on top of the virus, and now the ICUs in our country are lucky to die three times less patients than the first one, and that also shows that things are going well. Positives are detected before and treatments are also applied before. They fight the virus better and we avoid the worst prognostics. The Government of the Generality is showing anticipation. Catalonia leads a bit more, but, obviously, it's not easy, and I'm sure there are complicated moments of attention, and, finally, points of uncoordination. And it's also true that the sound is always more powerful, it always comes more than the good work, but because everything is still very difficult and we continue to learn it every day. We cannot forget, for example, how July felt a lot of doubts and pressure on the schools, and the education system analyzed, worked, planned, and applied a plan that is working very well, and today our schools are open and are secure. The same has already passed with the logistic part, with the most logistic part of care and hospital planning. Despite the difficulties, we have not after the first wave, we have prepared ourselves better to hold it all together today, and the work is bearing fruit, and the hospitals are prepared, and the system is prepared. The problem above when the volume of input attention is so great that it is ingestible, and that's why I need to stop it, and that's why there's still not enough data. That's why we need to continue and ask for more effort. We don't want to be too optimistic, nor do we want to be triumphalists, because this battle is very hard, it is very long and it will be very complex. But I'd really like to be clear about two questions: the government, our government that we have here today, if it's leaving the skin, and it's going to do everything to save lives and save the country. And he does it by listening to experts, and deciding according to the opinion of epidemiologists, and also taking into account other economic and social variables. And second, this isn't a battle that can only be government. It's time to take 'ns-ho as a country battle. It's time to work together. We have to make it very clear that they don't touch toilets right now, that it's not up to us to wear us out, or we all do it or we won't get out of it. We need complicity from all sectors, we need complicity from all of this country's society. The virus put the company in question as we had known it. Individualism has been condemned to die and we enter a new phase where the collective is always predominant. If we're not all sure, no one's sure. That's what Raül Romeva always said. It's time for the common good. This pandemic tells us that we have to live collectively, and that's it, collectively, all together, as we get out of it. That is why follow-up measures are also very important. That is why it is important to have mobilised 300_million euros in aid, the 50_millions to be added to the initial 40_millions in direct aid to bars and restaurants. Help to bring down shopkeepers, to put a stop to the denunciations of the most vulnerable people in times of pandemic, 20_million help to the autonomies, 50_million for the cultural sector, and all that I leave me. We fight the virus and we accompany the citizenry in this fight. We don't want to let anyone back. We work from Republicanism to write a new and better future. We must abandon the wear, we must abandon the battles, we must be responsible for the moment when we live. It is up to us to work folds also from the Parliament, to make this country'surrounded. Leave Twitter, talk, help us, tax the government, all at the same time, constructively. Fighting folds because what is at stake is the health and social fabric and product of our country. We're doing the same thing from the government, which at some point seemed like the opposition was within the same government. This is no time for partyism. It's like the government always acted like a block in front of a situation that's very difficult and we expect everyone, everyone, to be on the rise of the moment. You don't have to speculate, you don't have to improvise. We only have to communicate certain, we cannot create confusion; responsibility always, and sighted. It would be a mistake for someone, now, in such a difficult situation, to make electoral calculations. What's at stake is empty, it's the economy of this country, it's the future. Therefore, we ask everyone to be responsible and to be targeted. The intervention began, highlighting that we are in politics to help people. And also to help people, that's why we're independent. We want independence because we know that independence is the only way to build a country that is better, more just, freer and more forthcoming, than the best way to help the people of this country is in an independent republic. In the Spanish State, we have no future, no opportunities for freedom, no resources that we deserve. And they see it every, every, every day. We lack instruments, we lack skills, and a good part of the resources that our country generates, thanks to the efforts of our people, do not come back. We lack investments in hospitals, schools, businesses, families, the local authorities... and we see again that we do not have enough room for political manoeuvre and that we do not have a good share of the resources we generate. We are working today to fight this economic crisis, this health crisis, this social crisis, and while we are working every day to achieve freedom. Every second that goes on fighting against this virus and the crises that it has left us, it is a second more in favor of the republic of social justice, of the equality of opportunities that we have been pursuing for so many years – so many years – and for which we work. And every day, every day, every day, win raons. That is why, despite the repression and the current context, we will not stop working one day for the freedom of this country, and we have a winning proposal: to be more, to prepare ourselves better to return to it, and to win definitively. We know it won't be quick. We know it won't be easy, but we also know that the way to the Catalan Republic is now irreversible, and we won't give up because we need all the tools, and the Covid has shown us once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.147.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Finally, it is the return of the Group of Joints for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.148.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members of the Government, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Deputies, first place, to reiterate from Juntes for Catalonia all the support to the people who are painting the Covid, to their family members and also to the people who are painting the consequences of the drastic and harsh measures that have been seen these days, which must be taken as a result of the situation. If I may, however, I will begin, fruit that there have been different parliamentary groups that have not mentioned Operation Volhov. From the Juntas for Catalonia we believe that it is very difficult, that it is unacceptable that in a European democracy in the 21st century, Members and Members were spied on, politicians were spied on, political party meetings were spied on, and the activities of these political parties were spied on. Stay here. That's unacceptable. Moreover, this tolerance and permissiveness of these operations, now also of the "most progressive government of history, of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, causes us to have many doubts of the democratic quality that we are living in the Spanish State and, more, that it is filtered that the right to privacy of members of political parties and political party meetings is something that we, precisely for the experience that we have..., do not want to fall into the trap and do not fall into the trap. And they are not complicit in the ill intentions of the State and the State keyloggers. And we don't send any value judgments around these conversations. Because it's inconceivable that he'd come back to see some images like September 17, September 20, with arrests in the morning, while people were taking children to his school, willingly doing harm, and after two days of arrest, the same prosecutor says there's no cause and that the cause has neither a nor a few. It's more, again it's the perversion of the right and the twisting of guarantees. Because whoever wants to see traffic in the influence that goes to La Zarzuela, with the king emerit fled for corruption. Who wants to see a traffic of influence going to the Bernabéu stage, where you see how the Spanish government has donated 1,500_million euros for Castor's operation to the financial entities, "the most progressive government of history. Or yesterday, they said they were donating 500_million euros to rescue Air Europe. We are in a difficult situation of the coronavirus, and in the first place we want to thank the government for wanting to compare here, with its parliament, giving all the maximum explanations and the last steps taken to double the pandemic. This today's appearance adds to the meeting that we have already repeatedly had with the different parliamentary groups with members of the Government and the explanations that the advisers and advisers have given to the different parliamentary committees in all spheres. It is an exercise of transparency between accounts, and that follows the compromise demonstrated for President Torra in the first wave. An attitude that contrasts with the sluggish predisposition of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who approves an alarm state until May 9th and says that he will only appear every two months at the Congress of Deputies, almost watering down. And we're happy that Covid's data evolves favorably. In fact, the members of the government say, it is already under the '1, the R. But the incidence fourteen days up to 812, and the name of the dead also increased. It is necessary that there be dialogue, cooperation, complicity, understanding, and each of its areas of responsibility to help, and that this is the formula for turning the raven of the contagion. Only together can we overcome this health emergency that in the last few weeks has reemerged in an uncontrolled way. The data are unappealable. We've seen how the risk of resurgence has increased and we've seen this, so it's multiplied, with an important vortex over the last few weeks. This unravelled spread, here and there of different countries, has caused drastic, difficult, but badly necessary measures to be taken: obligatories of masks, rescind the right of assembly and social contact, limit mobility, lock up the inn, trades, cultural and sports equipment, in order to decree the curfew or state of alarm or house confinements. In Catalonia, these recommendations have been followed by expert recommendations. Life, first of all. We defend life, yes, but we also want it to be a dignified life and those who pass it poorly have the emperor of administrations to secure the most basic needs. We can't leave anyone behind, no city can lose the opportunity to thrive and develop its vital project. And, in this sense, we must allocate all possible resources in social matters. But we must also make every effort to lay the foundations for economic recovery. Because Catalonia is a country of autonomes and peppers, and that is why we are aware that it is necessary to seek a welfare for our citizens, which also implies a vehicle for the economy. Working to avoid the closure of businesses and the destruction of work places is also working to ensure a dignified life. And for this reason, before this inevitable fact of the restrictions that entail social consequences and severely damage the economy, the Government must accompany every decision to protect the lives of people with measures, as the Councillors and Councillors explained, to compensate for this impact on social and economic matters. Each measure to deal with this situation of coronavirus – of closing trades, restaurants, cultural activity, sports – must be accompanied by economic measures to deal with it. And, at times, also, start thinking, with predictability, about the situation of reactivation. Today we saw that the data from R was down from '1; an objective, therefore, that the whole country knows that it is a country objective, and that for the first time we have good news, from the last weeks: that we are at 0.96. Together for Catalonia we are convinced that all of us – all of us: the local administration, the government the generality, the government of the state – must be the driving force behind the different measures so that we can have a positive revival of the country, and that this will be as soon as possible. And that's why we predict, as clear information, that we continue to take these measures to avoid yet reducing mortality, but we also need to prepare and we need to prepare because as soon as possible, so you can open restaurants, you can open shops, you can reopen sports, commercial activities, etc., in all areas, and cultural. Because it's necessary, because we also need to reactivate the economy; because a strong economy, strong businesses, is also a way to save lives and donate projects of hope and future. "The most progressive government of history is the camp to have the highest youth unemployment rate in Europe: 40_per_cent. We need to generate spaces of hope for young people, who are the future. We see that Spain is not the future; there is no hope for young people. And that's why we in Catalonia try to lay down a foundation for Catalonia to be a space of hope in those terms. Many measures have been decreed, which I will not face, and which have been accompanied by aid, already the 40_million euros for the theme of restoration, the 20_million euros for the downstream ones; the measures, therefore, to deal with the loguers, which are working very well from different councils; in this sense, also support lines, which the Government of the Generalitat approved yesterday; contributions to food banks and the Red Creu; more external aid for establishments and restoration; 17_million for cultural entities and enterprises, as explained by the Council of Culture during this morning; 10_million euros for the whole theme of the world of sport, etc. In short, that the Government of Catalonia is putting all the resources it has in the abst to deal with the immediate effects of the pandemic, but we cannot forget or fail to denounce that the Spanish State is always putting the pressure on itself. Neither does he allow us to make the decisions – nor does he allow us to make all the decisions – nor does he allocate or intend to allocate the resources that are needed because..., the resources that we pay between all Catalans and Catalans..., to expenses that can cope with this situation, and he allocates them to superfluous expenses. And that's what we've been seeing this time. A state of alarm is approved, which is found that the State does not leave..., nor does it let it, that it says that the only competent authority is Mr. Pedro Sánchez, and at the same time this state of alarm does not speak of ERTOs, does not speak of teletreball, does not speak of the subsidy of pairs held by children in quarantine, nor does it deal with the possibility of restricting commercial times, or suspending denunciations, as we ask this morning– that the state of alarm does not prohibit these denunciations–, nor lines of subsidy to enterprises or exceptions to moratoria for the payment of social security, VAT, etc. And, in turn, we see that yes, well, the Government of the Spanish State is able to spend more than 2,000_million euros, during the first wave of the pandemic, to renew the army's tank fleet– 2,000_million euros to renew the army's tank fleet–, or to increase the Royal House's budget by 7_percent, 500,000_euros that could be allocated to 160,000 autonomes not having to see their own share increased. Or, for example, we also see that "the most progressive government of history infra-finances the Law of Dependency, but in change, increases the presumption of the Ministry of Defense by a 5_per_cent, in a situation of coronavirus. And then we come here and teach the government what to do, when what they have to do, who are the ones who have the resources... we see where they're going. We trust that this unjustifiable management of the resources of the Spanish Government serves because all the citizens share our conviction that with this state there is nothing to do. Although we're still a part of it, it's already a past screen for us. We have the duty and the obligation to look forward, to build a good future, a hopeful future, which allows us to build a Catalonia of opportunities, to be blessed, more early, fairer and more equitable. This is our compromise and this is our determination. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Once the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups have spoken, the Government may speak again. I don't know if you're expecting me to answer the vice president... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Very well; the vice president of the escho will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.150.0	Thank you, Vice-President of Parliament. And then, then, the word will also be given to Councilwoman Budo. The intervention, from the point of view, because it is a short intervention, but we would like the messages to arrive correctly. First of all, I want to thank all those Members and Members who have spoken focusing on this issue. And, therefore, we will not go into assessing the more partisan issues that have been expressed, because what interests us, and where we are now centered, are the measures to contain the Covid-19 and above all to be able to achieve this social and economic recovery as soon as possible. For a band, MPs and MPs have made various requests for information. It has been facilitated and will continue to facilitate the details of the measures taken, both measures to expand the capacities of the health system and compensatory measures in the economic sphere. You know that. I, too, from those responsible for institutional relations, will get all the information they need to respect. Apart from information, some of you have expressed legitimate criticisms of the government's performance. We, those elements in which we agree..., because we always have the will to continue to improve, and, before a situation like we have, go, it would be out of reality to think that a responsible person is doing well; there is always room for improvement, and therefore we incorporate, therefore, the constructive criticisms that have been made as elements to improve in the decisions and in the actions of the Government. But I'd also like to remember what we've been doing. We have been increasing the ability to test, diagnose and treat, from the 2,500 professionals who are following the cases from the point of view, therefore, from all contacts. We have spent five thousand PCRs at the beginning of the pandemic at 239,000 per week, to which thirty thousand antigen tests were added that this past week have also been completed. We have started the expansion of primary care to 1,300 professionals until the end of the year. We have also been working to ensure the right to the education of our infants, and to the beginning of the course..., that it was a repte of country and thus made clear to everyone, so we believe that it was achieved, this beginning of the course; obviously, a course that is not normal and that needs to be done in different conditions, but we have reopened the schools because we believe it is essential to safeguard the right to the education of our infants and young people. And the measures that have been taken have, therefore, been accompanied, with accompanying that is probably insufficient, as insufficient are the resources available to us as the government. They have also made proposals. We'll pick them up, we'll follow them to work. And we are still at the disposal of you and all the citizens of the country to continue working in the struggle against the Covid-19. Thank you. And very good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.151.0	Thank you, Vice President. Do I understand that she is now the President's adviser who intervened? [[Pause.]] So, you have the word Lady Budo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.152.0	Thank you, Vice President; to end, too. Thank you, MPs, MPs. I'd like to finish up with a thought. Certainly, therefore, we have come here, we have compared, the Government is managing a pandemic, in this case a second wave of the pandemic, in which to take action, sanitary measures and economic follow-up measures to the population. And whatever..., and I think we've agreed a lot..., so it's been that for the long run these measures are calling for resources; they're calling for resources and at this point the resources are insufficient. As for the health system, Mirin, concretely, one of the pillars for the management of this pandemic, the problem of this underfunding of the Government of Catalonia, therefore, leaves without that just and necessary funding the health system of our country. This is a reality, that we do not give as a government; that they will remember this September in that document that the experts of the world of the health sector of our country will bring to us, that they will tell us that the sanitation of this country required more than 5,000_million euros additional to maintain a system with everything that this country requires. I, therefore, EUR 5,000 million falling to be able to finance the health system of our country fairly and effectively. Another important issue in which some Members have reflected and I believe that it is also important as the country that we are setting up is that of the digital elite. I totally agree on the existence of this digital key in our country; a digital key that can result in a social key. We have to work to take advantage of the digital revolution at these times. They know that since the government of Catalonia we are doing it. We have to work in this digital revolution as a great opportunity to fight social inequalities, because today digital policies are social progress policies. And so it's very important, too, this bet we make on the government. I end up with an important point in the management of this pandemic, an important point that some Members have also spoken about today, such as teletreball. Do you know what we need to be able to effectively exercise teletreball in our country? So the measure we need is that at this point in time the Government of the Spanish State has not allowed us with the state of alarm they have decreed, because it is to provide the Generality with all the legal framework necessary to be able to decree the compulsoryity of this teletreball and that this gives coverage to the workers of our country who can stay home to teletreball. Certainly, we are on some good dates, some Members and Members also pointed out, some good data that will allow us to work from now on a planned reopening, also a planned recovery of all those measures that we have had to take in managing this pandemic, worked together between the different sectors affected, between the Government, parliamentary groups and health authorities. We have to do it right; this reopening we have to do it right, and this requires this folded work. I'm done. There has been talk of coordination between administrations and special emphasis has been placed on coordination with the local world. Totally fine. Total agreement girl coordination work between different administrations. Dialogue, complicity and coordination, of course, dialogue, complicity and coordination, but coordination between administrations also want to remember that it is not a centralization.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.153.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the turn of the line, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Carlos Carrizosa, of the Ciutadans Group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For five minutes, groups and subgroups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.154.0	Yeah, all right. Very quickly. You didn't want to go into the corruption case that shakes this camera and that shakes Catalonia. They haven't been able to answer, they have nothing to say. It's obvious what's going on. Look, in your speeches, moreover, because it has become very clear that you place the emphasis on this supposed fiscal deficit that we have, in « it is Madrid's fault. The deficit lies with the Catalans with their Government. The deficit is all the taxes that Catalans are paying and that go away from the Administration and dedicate themselves to the process and to enriching their friends and their chiringuitos. Look, Mr Aragonès, you attended the conference of autonomous presidents and, instead of talking about what interests all Catalans, the requirements, the needs, the emergencies that we have, the European funds that must come to Catalonia, the distribution of how they will get there, you went there to make a mockery of Mrs Ursula von der Leyen to explain to you, therefore, that Catalonia is a country that wants to be independent, etc. That's what we Catalans can expect from our government, to take us away..., to make us ridiculous, to make us ridiculous in our name and to lose opportunities on behalf of all of us talking about their knuckles. Look, they've passed the pandemic by appealing to victimism. And you do it a little... when you get caught in the conversations these, telephones, and you see how you do it without filters, you see how you talk without filters. According to Vendrell, "the health department had left the residences at the foot of the horses, so Aragonès told him – you will remember whether this was so or not – "that we did not go out with advantage. Here independence needs to come out with the advantage of the crisis, because, if not, we cannot mark a package. No, no, how do you want people to believe that independence will make us better? It's not worth saying because I don't have all the skills. This is..., the use you make of the pandemic seen here without filters is this; this is what you conceive of as a pandemic, an opportunity to strengthen your rupturist plan. Look, the deficit I've already referred to him. And I'm going to end quickly, because you haven't spread anything. We have seen that you sit with the grinders, with the pacifiers. We sit with mental health associations, residences, hoteliers. Tell me who you're sitting with and I'll tell you who you are. Anyway, between negotiation and negotiation, when you have time to meet with the opposition..., that we have already told you, in the times of Mr. Torra, to make a forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia, an autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia, in which we were all represented sectors, all parties, and we also wanted to be there and you went through with it. If between the negotiations and the negotiations, they have time to sit down with Ciutadans to talk about proposals for the Catalans and those affected by the pandemic, for health, for the economy, we will be there. Let us hope that you can count on everyone with the same loyalty for Catalans as you will have with Citizens, but to cover, as others do and have always done in Catalonia, the negotiations that you carry out, for that you will not be able to count on us, Mr Aragonès. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The word has the deputy Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.156.0	Also very briefly, I will make a summary of our position around this debate. In the first place, and I repeat, I support the decisions taken. Certainly, this was also linked to a critical sense of some of the..., concrete management that you're a fan of. But I think it's very good that society realizes that, for what it does to decisions that are tough, that involve limitations of mobility, that involve limitations to the economic activity of self-employed people and businesses, it takes..., the government takes them, that it has the responsibility, but it also has the support of some opposition party, by responsibility, for the conviction that without a sacrifice now evil will be much worse after, and we want to mean it. Then, it is true, we are certainly critical with some elements that I want to pass very quickly. One first, one first. We believe that we need to make an additional effort to open consultants and CAPs. We know that there are staff difficulties, that neither doctors nor nurses can improvise, but we believe it is very important to recover the full activity of primary care. Second. Surely at these times, even though the Rt has now gone down, so we still can't do..., or be as effective as we want in tracking and tracking contacts, but we won't need to be back soon, because things will tend to get better. And, therefore, to darken the dish we will need more professionals than tracking, more dedicated people, from the professional point of view, to do this job. Third. Alert to the increase of the lists of waits. I refer especially, logically, to the case not Covid, because in times of pandemic and of great emergencies – it is obvious – the first is the most urgent, but this does not have to make us lose sight of the many citizen requests in healthcare that do not have to strictly see with the Covid. After that, health professionals. There is, I believe, on the part of health professionals, a lot of support, a lot of responsibility, but there are also some of them, or many of them, cremated for which they consider a lack of attention sufficient in the years to come. And, therefore, recover salary conditions, work conditions and the professional and emotional support that limes are essential. I support the affected economic sectors, as much as I can, you know, and the vice president said, we'll probably never get enough. But, in fact, some of the sectors have felt that they are not sufficiently present in a crisis that has affected them, on which they have no sense of responsibility, but that they are actually preventing them from entering, and, indeed, the taxation continues to require them to be paid to which they cannot cope. Then remember: economic recovery pact. Certainly, we are at this moment of interinitiation that may not help in these questions, but I am counting on us. To us is what happens to a lot of people: we find our decisions already taken. We were pleased to know them before and to be able to contribute, if we could and could, to improve them. They know that we will then give support to it, to which the government decides, because it is the one to whom it belongs. What we are calling for is that this effort to reactivate is also being made with parliamentary groups. Covenant for salvation. We won't get tired of it. Maybe now is the best time, now is the time when society is probably more aware of the need to strengthen the public health system, and so it's a sweet time to talk about what we all understand to be a priority. And lastly, maximum transparency, Vice President. We do not want to take advantage of fears or to take advantage of investigations that are at these times in a very preliminary situation, we do not want to give them either for good or for ill; what we do give to the Government is that as soon as possible it is able to provide the information more quickly we will lose doubts that can be generated and concerns that are present today in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. There's a word for Congresswoman Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.158.0	Thank you. I would just like to insist on one idea: only with restrictions will we not get out of it. And, therefore, what we need is a progressive exit, a social exit to this scene of multiple crises. She said before Mrs. Budo – I said before and I want to reiterate it again – "It's time to spend, it's time to debt us." So you have to tell your government company, Mr. Aragones, because it makes us feel like it's going all day with the calculator at hand, and it's not exactly making expansive policies from the Government of the Generality, when what we need is resources so that no sector falls. The empathy of the people is enormous, but only with the empathy of the people will we not have enough. We need governments to accompany, to support and, as I say, to work for the benefit of the social majority; to generate certainty and trust. And this is done through clear communication, which until now the government has not had, and it is also done with public policies. What do we think is necessary here? So, for one thing, a plan that has to tend various friends. For one side, a climbing document, just like you're making a climbing document. We need to make clear who are the levels and who are the measures associated with them because people know what they can and what they can't do. Obviously, a plan of economic and social cohesion, with sufficient aid, also with resources, even professional resources, for sanitation, but also for residences, with a strategy for sensillarism – it cannot be that there is no curfew and that there are no people in the street and that, moreover, continue to be fined. And we also need a national covenant for salvation. We wouldn't stop insisting on seeing if they'd ever let us do it. We also need from the central government that the Socialist Party is mogui. It can't be that in the middle of the pandemic there's still no money, it can't be. And by the way, the Llogateres Union has also said that its decree against denunciations is a farce. Therefore, I would ask you not to generate false expectations between the citizens. But we do need the Socialist Party to remain strong, to remain empathetic, and to stop at once for all the denunciations; always, but more in this exceptional situation. And we also need, therefore, that the Catalan forces that are in the Congress are moving, and that make it possible for us to have assumptions that are expanded with a lot of resources for Catalonia, because they are now more necessary than ever. Another topic I wanted to say. He told Mr. Batet that he will not issue any valuable judgment on the information published by the last few days in some media that talk about possible irregularities, about possible diversions of funds that go to the management of the pandemic and that have ended up in another place. I'm not gonna go to court either. In fact, I haven't said a word in the whole morning we're carrying Ple, but they'll be with me – they'll be with me – that asking is not offending, as my friend said, and that I think it's okay for the government to come out of the first moment and not wait for this Ple, to deny, to deny, to clarify, to kill, to do what you consider relevant. What can't be is that they're publishing information that's troubling in the communication media and you don't say anything until you get up to the ple. Simply this: I think giving explanations, I think giving information, is no more. I, I insist, ask you not to offend. And, finally, he wanted to make another score. Mr. Aragones said before we had a powerful tracking system that allows us to anticipate. It's not like that, Mr. Aragonès, it's not like that. From the same department it was recognized in communication mediums that were more tracking, which was now when we started to go to the origin of each case, and now we know, for the meeting that the Health spokespersons had with the department last week, which is now the same as the trackers, so they no longer serve because we are at a time of community transmission. Why am I doing this? So it's important that we strengthen the tracking system for when the descalation begins; we can't go back to a descalation like we had in the first wave, we can't be in a third phase that only lasts twenty-and-four hours, because this has led to a lot of problems and to not being able to raise our heads or even so alone in the summer, and because we need to have this network of powerful trackers from the first day. Therefore, I would ask you, therefore, not to say things that are not. So far, there weren't enough trackers; let's get ready for when the descalation starts and for when the third wave starts, because the experts are already saying so badly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Call. Parole has the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.160.0	Good morning to all of you again. We tell them that it has not been well and that we detect that the government, this bicephalal government, needs help. I would say to you, after your brief interventions, that I am well advised to accept the help that we are offering to the parliamentary groups; that, for example, you have not repeated a plethora as you are today when they appear and speak about decrees approved before the Government without providing them to the parliamentary groups sufficiently beforehand to be able to analyse them and to speak to them; that they work cooperatively. We put ourselves at the disposal... because it didn't work, the descalation they planned didn't work, much as they repeat it, much as Mr. Pere Aragonès tells us that there is a powerful ability to track. It didn't work. And how we want it to work, because this goes a long way: testing, tracing and facilitating the winging – testing, tracing and facilitating the winging. Perhaps we can change the mantra of hands, distance, mask, assume that the people have already accepted it, and go further and demand one. Second question. They've been talking about the reduction of contagion, which we're celebrating, but they don't want to bow to the medal. Lord Sabrià spoke to the well done work. If the spread has been reduced, it is thanks to the sacrifices of thousands of workers, small businesses, local businesses, especially catering, and all sectors affected by extreme measures. It wasn't because of his ability to antagonize. The least of a good government and of doing well is, as a minimum, thanking them for this sacrifice and making up for it with social measures, which are insufficient. Calen infrastructures and powerful public services. Let's sit down and talk, cooperate and work together to get to where you are, in a winged and exclusively working with the government, have not arrived. They have a parliament; they have a parliament that is the center of popular sovereignty of this people: to use it generously. We also commit ourselves to this generosity and responsibility. Let's get back to it: we're going to talk about how we plan a real strategy so that people don't get stuck, because people don't have to. Go on, talk. And father, please, to generate false expectations among those who suffer the most. And I'm referring to what I've already told you before about the announcements that all the denunciations in Catalonia were shut down. Fem-ho, fem-ho truth, we didn't just announce it with press notes. Before I say it and we repeat it again: education, sanitation, public services, going to the CAP and someone who supports you, those questions that are paramount for the people of this country to strengthen them. The schools are now open, but the status of the schools knows who it is; for the health issue, but also the hard consequences that they have on inclusion issues, equity issues and issues related to school segregation. Therefore – and Mrs. Budó has said this in the two interventions, and Mr. Pere Aragonès too – resources are falling. They already know they're calling for resources. That's why we're proposing a radical redistribution of wealth. We insist and insist on it as many times as you need. They can't afford the crisis that we're always living. And it's gonna sound like a slogan, but it's basic, and there's social unrest. « Well done work? But what did you do well? Ask the workers of culture, « well done work. That yes, some measures have been adopted today that may cover some of the needs of workers and cultural workers. Totally inadequate. « Well done work? Therefore, we insist, we cooperate and we continue to work, and we work especially..., they have two options: to work exclusively on the people's agenda or to work cooperatively not only with the parliamentary groups of this Parliament, but with all the social spaces and all the spaces that are being proposed to initiate this crisis, generating great country agreements. They're not doing it, they're working on people's scales. So let's remember again: redistribution of wealth, anticipation, testing, tracking and guaranteeing a dignified winging. The people who live in small houses, the people who see a lot of people in a small space or who even have to stay homeless can't go away as you think they can go away. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I ended up writing an alert too – and if I may be President – for all young people who are on the streets at risk from AIFM. It is urgent that the situation..., the institutional violence that the DGAIA is exerting against young people without family referents is very difficult, and more in a situation of health crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.161.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.162.0	...like the one on the table. They're still talking about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then it's the turn of the subgroup... do you give up his turn? [[Pause.]] Okay. Therefore, we move to the Republican Parliamentary Group. Deputy Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.164.0	Thank you, Vice President. I begin by thanking the government's intervention, the realization of the data of the presentation, the willingness to give answers, the willingness to compare and to pass accounts, not only today, but for each full until this Parliament is dissolved. Miri, the rest of the time I'd love to dedicate it to Mr. Carrizosa. That's it! That's enough! You and the deep state are the same, exactly the same, the same machine. And that's not worth a straight state. And we know and we know. But despite the fact that we know and know, we do not stop repeating it every time, we do not stop denouncing it. Ara plays a new onada of the general cause. The harpsichords will act again another time. With the impunity of always – forever –, and with the complicity of always, which are you, but also that they are some organs that directly depend on the State, and therefore also – also – they are Mr.Iceta. From D'Esquerra we are studying all the legal and appropriate actions to denounce this political espionage, to denounce the leaks to the media of communication of meetings and conversations that nothing has to do with the purpose of the investigation. And, look, we're very quiet; you can go on like this, with the killing of mountains and illegal recordings, and we'll unmount them, if you like, one by one – if you like, one by one. And we will defend every day – every day, every day – the honorability of our people to the government: everything that has been said and everything that has been insinuated respects the management of the Republican Left to the government is false. There is no new concert in the Department of Education, cap; there is no Salut competition, because it was revoked; there is no regularization or urban change in Cabrera; there is no contractual relationship between the researchers and the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Family that is linked to the pandemic. We'll unmount them one by one. Every lie, every recording, every new shit they pass, Esquerra will come out to unmount it one by one. Because we're implacable before any suspected corruption, and everyone knows it, and they'll still feel exactly the same. And not only that, they are not only relentless against corruption, but against anything that contravenes Republican principles. We've always done this. And in everything that does not adapt to our codes of ethics and our codes of conduct, if it is accredited, they will take the steps that will convince. But there's nothing – there's nothing. What we have today is a new mountain of the Civil Guard, endorsed by Spanish justice, endorsed by you; a new operation led by you, for the creator of all the farce of the process: Lieutenant Colonel Baena, the famous Tacitus; the same one that falsely built the crime of siege respects our companions who are here today. So, it's a new operation against independence. We know what you're looking for: threaten us, put up with us and, if they can, lock us in jail, divide us, tame the cause. All against the independence project. All against the Catalan Republic. They're going for independence and they're going for Republican Esquerra. And they'll find us in the front. We take it off every time. We'll take it all apart one time. That we continue to invent stories, that we follow the Tacitus doing the work that it does, that we are here, that we are right, that we continue to fight, that we continue to work it every day to unmount them one after the other. And, yes, Mr. Carrizosa, yes, we want to emerge reinforced by this crisis. And we didn't say it at all, we said it here, in open, two minutes ago. We want to get out strengthened from this crisis because we are here to be useful, to help people; we want out strengthened from this crisis because we have done well, because we have helped the people of this country. And that's what will strengthen independence. That's why we're here, and that's why we're going to devote up to the last drop of our sweat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it's the turn of the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia. And has the word Deputy Albert Batalla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.166.0	If'msent? [[Pause.]] From here the ESC is, Vice-President, three words: respect, cooperation and compromise. Respect. We are the Parliament of Catalonia and if we want to increase the confidence of the citizenry in politics, which you must all share with me that does not go through its best moment, it is fitting that expressions make the effort that are not pronounced in this hemisphere. Second, cooperation. That's a lot of toilets. Anar to a show here, that the Podemos against the Socialists, the Podemos who don't know what, the Socialists who tell the government what to do, etcetera; those of the culture of the no and those of the opposition say that it's all bad when there they govern... Prou retrets. That there's people's lives, that we're politically responsible. And people trust us in elections because we manage a difficult situation, a situation with responsibility, every one of them. Coming to make a pem-pam-pum in a Covid debate is to be ashamed of yourself. Third, compromise. Many political forces here have said that they are willing to help the Government of the Generality, the different administrations in its field. And commitments don't just have to come with words, they have to come with facts, and at these times they're GOOD, they're supposed, they're decrees, and they're measures to deal with this situation. Do they want to put more resources on people? So less resources for the monarchy. Do they want to put in more resources for self-government and to be able to pay for ERTOS? So less buying military weapons; less raising the assumption of military spending and ministry in the area of..., and more thinking about how we reactivate this country with anticipation and among all of us. Respect, cooperation and compromise are three values I believe that among all of us here we should share in a pandemic situation like today, and to avoid harder measures that can come in the next few days. We are political leaders and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia, and at these moments as everyone is on their way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposed amendment law of the Law 25/2010, of July 29, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family]] [[202-00028/12]] Let's move on to the point of the order of the day, which is the debate of the proposal for processing, directly and in one reading, before the Ple of the proposed law amending the Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relates to the person and the family. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar called for a single reading before the plethora of the far-reaching legislative initiative. According to the criteria established for the Bureau, the debate and the vote must be taken first because the Plenary agrees, if you choose, the procedure for the single reading procedure. The debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and the general evolution of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal in accordance with the rules of the debate of totality. At this first point, in agreement with the later Board of Spokesmen, parliamentary groups will have around five minutes each, taken from the proposed parliamentary group, which has seven minutes and a half. In the first place, therefore, I intervened on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.168.0	Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Today the debate of the single-reading processing of the proposed law amending the Law 25/2010 of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relates to the person and the family. Therefore, as today we expose why this modification that we plant can be coupled to a watered-down journey at the time of the debate and approval of a bill of law. As Parliament's Rules of Procedure say, "a bill or proposal of law can be dealt with directly and in one reading and for the plenary of the Parliament or by commission if the nature of the draft advises it or the simplicity of the wording allows it, and we believe that we are, precisely, before a proposal of law that actually fulfills the two requirements that we have stated: its nature and its simplicity allow it. As you all know, the change we propose to you is from an article in the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, that which deals with the person and the family, in concrete terms is proposed the introduction of a new departure from article 236-8. This article refers to the exercise of parental authority, indicating that in his first apartment this exercise is done jointly for the two parents, unless they agree on something else or so determine the laws or a judicial authority. In the second section, the rules according to which parental authority is to be exercised are related and there is a difference between the acts of ordinary, extraordinary or urgent administration. The proposal tabled by our group, as we have said before, adds a third apartment that focuses on the possibility that only one of the two parents should authorize the psychological attention of minors in the following circumstances: whenever we find ourselves before a sentence or a criminal procedure opened for some of the crimes related to gender-based violence; if this criminal procedure or sentence is produced for having had a time against life, physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity or freedom or sexual freedom of the minor children or girls, or to have a time against another parent. They may therefore be passive subjects, not only the female victim of gender-based violence, but also the minor common children. It will be sufficient, therefore, that this parent lends his consent for the youngest children to receive care and psychological assistance to inform the other child, and in the case of the children who were older than seven years, it should be the children who expressly hold his consent. This proposal that we are presenting today has nothing to do with the withdrawal of the State Pact against General Violence. We must remember that one of the axes of the state pact is precisely the protection of the lesser victims of violence or of the youngest children and daughters of women victims of gender-based violence or who have suffered it themselves. And in this way in its proposal 147, the pact provided for the disengagement of psychological intervention from less exposed to violence from the exercise of the authorized country, and called for the modification of the Civil Code because the attention and psychological assistance left outside the category of acts requiring a common decision in the exercise of the authorized country. At the time, the Government of Spain with the approval of the Royal Decree on Urgent Measures for the Development of the State Pact against General Violence amended Article 156 of the Spanish Civil Code. In the case of Catalonia, with proper civil rights, it was also necessary to make this change in the sense that indicated the state pact. This amendment that we are presenting today also adds to the legislative measures that this Parliament has adopted to advance the protection of women and the lesser victims of gender-based violence. Thus, it should be remembered that this chamber approved the Law of the Right of Women to eradicate male-based violence, which provides for the right to effective protection of women, and also supports public policy and intervention models, specifying directly that the Government must develop comprehensive intervention models throughout Catalonia by means of a network of quality services in all spheres, that it is able to give adequate, agile, proper, coordinated responses to the needs and processes of women who suffer or have suffered situations of male-based violence, and also to children and girls when witnesses and victims follow. These intervention models should include information, primary care and specialized care as essential elements. But because it is possible to give this specialized attention, in this psychological case, that the children are not found with possible impediments of one of the parents, in this case which has provoked the situation that needs to be attended to. We must bear in mind that the results of the 2017 Catalonian Masclist Violence Survey reflect that of the total number of victims of Masclist Violence Episodes and who had fewer people living together at the time of the events, more than 32_per_cent claimed that they witnessed them. Therefore, the data support the need to make this modification of our Civil Code that we present today. And not only the data, if we stick to what many professionals of the right and of the field of psychology tell us, that this change to prevent even and all complaints of these parents that would have shown, therefore, the violent conduct, that must be taken care of, against the same..., the complaints against the same professionals who attend the minor, based, precisely, on the fact that it was not requested authorization for this attendance. Deputies and deputies, violence against women, in all its expressions: verbal, physical, legal, psychological, economic, social..., all, is one of the violations of the most persistent human rights of the world, the fruit of the patriarchal structure that is perpetual with a fierce insistence. Violence against women prevents the progress of society in general, and of women in particular, because they cannot develop their vital projects in freedom. This violence also has one of its expressions, perhaps of the most terrible, in infants, in minors who are witnesses of the violence against their seas or who suffer it directly, which in the name of vicarious violence. In the face of those who deny the existence of this violence against women or their children, who want to put it behind the scenes, such as domestic violence, we say that we must put all the necessary tools, not only to eradicate this violence, but to heal the wounds that it also causes in infants. This is why today we present this proposition of law which is very simple in its formulation and, therefore, unique reading object, but which is sometimes very necessary. We're aware that there's a lot of work left to do, a lot of work left to do. Work in many areas: improving legislation, increasing resources, training, awareness of gender-based violence. We'll keep working, and I'm convinced that we can come to great consensus, because this rock is genera and its effects on infants, too, disappear. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position themselves the words of the parliamentary groups, and in the first place the deputy Munia Fernández-Jordan has a turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.170.0	Good morning, President. Counsel, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, staff of Parliament... We discuss at this point whether or not to proceed with a single reading of the proposed amendment to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in particular the second book, introducing a new number in its article 236-8, if, by conviction and until criminal liability is distinguished, or criminal proceedings are initiated against one of the parents for violating the life, physical integrity, liberty, moral integrity, or freedom and sexual compensation of the common children under age, or for violating the other parent, it will be sufficient with the consent of the other parent for the psychological care and assistance of the children under age, having to inform the first of them. The assistance we are talking about, if it were for more than sixteen years old, should have the consent of these. Well, the position of this parliamentary group will be to support both the text and its single reading. Because we believe that the two requirements, the nature of the project advises it, and the simplicity of the formulation also allows it. Let us see the nature of the project, the very essence of the matter we are dealing with. To whom does it benefit? Who is the subject of this amendment? Well, girls and boys under the age of eighteen. It covers all kinds of mistreatment towards them, the one who suffers and also the one who witnesses. The very essence of legislative change is therefore the search for the welfare of minors. I have stated on another occasion, I had that honour in this very Chamber, that boys and girls are the most important thing in our society. That they are not the future, but that they are the present, and, moreover, the best of the present. On the other hand, this measure provides us with two elements that we believe are very important. On the one hand, a necessary freedom quota, a freedom of action with regard to the health of their children, the spouse who has suffered such violence and who is not in the process and in criminal proceedings, and, on the other hand, a visibility of mental health as a fundamental axis of the life of minors. Because as my colleague Blanca Navarro has pointed out in countless initiatives, mental health, that well-being that we all have the right to achieve and which is part of the definition of the WHO health concept, is essential. With regard to the data that any legislative reform requires, we are certainly endorsed. Both the history of recent years and this year 2020 in Covid's time, because it is true that it is urgent to adapt us to the new reality that we are living and that we also do not know how long it will last, and taking into account that the service of care and information to the victim of the Department of Justice has observed between March and April 2020, the hardest moments of confinement, an increase of 53_per_cent of citizens' doubts about how to act in case of physical or psychological aggression in the family nucleus. Taking into account, very important fact, as my colleague, the Socialist MEP, has pointed out, that 60_percent of the people who have contacted this service are women. Of course, macho violence is permanently in this reform. A reality, therefore, that needs to be addressed. That is why we share the view that only one parent should be allowed to give psychological attention to his or her daughter or children when these circumstances arise. We understand that this is a step towards modernity, because by addressing certain behaviors, fears, phobias or other issues at an early age, we can provide minors with greater happiness, and the system develops a preventive health policy where the key is, many times, that resolves subsequent pathologies. Therefore, welcome is the reform, let us hope that it comes forward and pity that this measure reaches a Catalonia with a government sprinkled by the shadow of corruption and mockery of the half world with its galactic delusions, which every day shows that minors are not their priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.172.0	Thank you, President. I wouldn't want to start my intervention without sending her a hug and apologizing to our spokesman, Susanna Segovia, who can't be here today because she's got a pinch on her back, and she's probably following us from home, and so I'm going to try to do the best I can; surely not as well as she is, right? We are clear that the coronavirus has strongly affected our society, causing a health, economic and educational crisis, but that it cannot, logically, store a rock that has our society, that it is that of male violence, and that, moreover, confinement, with the data that the same Generality has, has made it even more painful, right? In fact, according to some of the data from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, only in five weeks were attended to by two thousand women who needed or were seeking help from the Administration and who felt victims of male violence and even all the number of tricks of the Catalan Institute of the Donations increased by 88_per_cent during these months, right? Actually, at the end of this plenary, so we'll live a minute of silence because we've had a new one, so, death by male violence, in this case Yolanda, as the Speaker of Parliament began and explained when he started this plenary, right? And I think Catalonia has been a pioneer. It's like, counting on a network, I'd say, full recovery of male rape victims. Count on the law, too, of the year 2008, that I think it's also a pioneering law, and that more than anything else it wants to guarantee the right of women to live freely, safely and autonomously, right? And, in addition, it extends the requirements of this protection to dependent children. And, besides, it does, I think with a phone element, that it's running away from centralization, in this case, from accreditation, worth the redundancy, that there's a criminal complaint, huh? I think that this is also a phone element, or that it has always been a phone element for us, isn't it? Especially because, in many cases, the situations of rape are not formally denounced, and therefore, this is tradition, to hear the need to give an answer without this complaint being made; it is what has marked, therefore, the way to approach it from Catalonia, and obviously also with the law of the year 2008, which says that the intermediation of the complaint is not necessary to act and that it can guarantee the rights of women and, obviously, also of their children, right? And we believe that this must be the expert of the law, that women can access the resources, and above all also giving compliments to the international standard mark, as is stated for example in the Istanbul Convention, and that, therefore, there are so many ways, the states, to give coverage to women and their children, and their infants, in these situations of male violence. In fact, in the final statement of the Parliament of Women you tell us, and I read it literally because I think it's better to use your words than even my own, right? , to ensure the full care of children and adolescents in a situation of male violence, with sufficient resources and services, coordinating the Masclist Rape Service and the Child Protection Service with protocols, with opportunities for gender and adequate training. It is necessary to guarantee – and this is the element, I would say, of what we are putting into today's market – "the socio-educational and therapeutic care of underage people, who in a way that is not conditional on obtaining consent from both parents, if not obtained through interposition, that criminal or civil proceedings may be subtracted. Therefore, you were, and we are all in agreement with the need to ensure this socio-educational and therapeutic attention to younger people than in a situation of male violence, so they obviously need this treatment and this coverage. Above all, and I'm done with this, because the vicissitude of a child is not just that male-based violence that he saw directly, it's already abuse, physical and psychological abuse, but it also impacts the fact that he first experienced the fact that a man, right? In this case, there is a woman in the family, so she has been assaulted and witnessed by this male violence. And, therefore, what we have to do is, in the end, find the way, find the consensus, as was done in the Parliament of the Dones, to guarantee this psychological attention to the treatment of children, and above all, to make it possible to escape from these models that are based only on the existence of a concrete complaint. Therefore, we will also support this text, and what you do for read-only reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.173.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.174.0	Thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. We will vote in favour of this proposal and want to make our own, or we would like to express the words of Montse Plaza Aleu, a doctor in social psychology specializing in male and maternal rape. He says: "A child who sees a situation of male violence in the family environment suffers in many ways. Pateix, both at the emotional level– above all can hold for, be angry, be suspicious of the world, of the world of adults–, at the physical level– many times fan physical symptomatology–, at the behavioral level they get more aggressiveness or are more passive people. He says: "Violence begins with the least, with the silences, with the disregard of you, with the non-identification of your needs. Violence begins long before we are able as a society to identify. That's important. I think we're not socially alert enough to detect male-violation situations, and less the affect you have on infants and adolescents. Masclist violence still now, although it seems that we are all in the current and that we all know how to detect it, it is still a very taboo fact, which is not explained, which is not shared, and which, moreover, socially is still quite tolerated. A creature is a victim of male violence from the first moment that in its family environment there are situations of male violence; from the first moment a father attacks the mother, this is already affecting the creature. My dear, these words of Montse Plaza Aleu, this doctor in social psychology, precisely to speak that this is a great measure of success. And in fact, psychological attention is already being paid – not everything we want – to infants who are also victims of this male-based violence. But we understand that we need to go further and that we also need to know that male violence is inherent in the system. Why is it inherent in the system? So because the women, in the end, we are responsible for the reproductive work, the fact that the sexual division of labor makes men socially the jobs of the productive sphere and, therefore, those jobs that are remunerated, with visibility and social recognition. Although the majority of women also work in the productive sphere, so precisely the jobs they do are paid but poorly paid, in this productive sphere. And in the reproductive sphere, work is not remunerated and is not visible or socially recognized. The problem for us is not as long as it is precisely given this division of labour, but rather that it is hierarchical the value of the product of the work and only gives value to the work that is done in the field of production. In addition, the sexual division of labor is based on an exploitative relationship. It gives a systematic transfer of resources from women to men and also to the State, because it remembers that where public services do not arrive, the women arrive, and they do so free of charge. And look, it's not out of love, it's out of imposition. Thus, the sexual division of labour impacts on the material conditions of life and the subsistence of women, and at times is one of the pillars of gender inequality on which patriarchy is based. And why do we say that at this point? So because it's very important to reverse this situation, because sometimes it's going to go to the background of the problem in order to reverse this situation. Because in the end the children who lose their childhood are the last scale of this male-based violence, which is produced very clearly thanks to a system that survives capitalism, isn't it? , from this way of hearing society in a capitalist and patriarchal system. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.176.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the proposal for a single reading of the Proposal for a law amending Law 25/2010, which concerns the second book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. A change is proposed to ensure that in cases of gender-based violence the consent of the aggressor parent is not required so that minors can have access to the necessary assistance and psychological care. But before dealing with this legislative change, we must first focus the debate on the appropriateness of whether this bill can be dealt with in a single reading. In this case, given the legal change, given the nature, given the simplicity proposed to us, we believe that this change would fit perfectly into the single reading procedure. From the People's Party we reiterate our commitment to the victims of gender-based violence. We must all fight against this social scourge which, every year, kills women in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Next November 25th we will be commemorating the International Day against Gender Violence. Gender-based violence is one of the worst violence because it attacks those who can barely defend themselves in the most intimate core. In 2019, only one of the five victims had previously reported their attacker. In just two decades we have to mourn more than a thousand murdered women, more than a thousand murdered women throughout Spain. That is the magnitude of the problem that we have to solve. Therefore, from the People's Subgroup we continue to work to find solutions. We must all continue to work together with the most vulnerable people, women; those young adolescents who are also exposed to such control violence on social networks; those women with disabilities who have greater problems accessing public resources; those older women to whom their economic dependence or throughout the history of abuse they have suffered makes it more difficult for them to leave that circle of violence, as well as minors, minors who suffer violence against their mothers and who also suffer such violence, in some cases, in the first person. Therefore, a united struggle of all is a priority; all against those who attack; all against those who abuse; all against those who murder. That is why this one-reading procedure is important that we can put it in place as soon as possible and that this change can be substantial as soon as possible in order to be able to assist those minors who require it, because the fight against gender-based violence is not an ideological struggle. It is a struggle to combat this social reality with which we live daily in our villages, in our streets, in our municipalities. Therefore, it is not a right-wing or left-wing struggle. It is the struggle of all to put an end to that social scourge, with that scourge which unfortunately causes so many women to die every year killed by their aggressors and which also causes many minors to suffer both first-person violence and violence suffered by their mothers. We will therefore support this proposal by the Socialist Group, because in this struggle we all have to go together and as soon as possible we can put more measures on the table before we can put an end to this damn social scourge, as I say, which affects many Catalan women, but also many women from the rest of Spain. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. Let us now continue with the intervention, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.178.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I would like to begin the intervention giving thanks to the PSC, and in concrete to the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra, for the presentation today of this proposal of law that is proposed to be processed for single reading. I'm saying we'll give it support. We will support it, because it seems to us a modification, as many of my companies have expressed, essential and necessary in this will to adapt the existing legislation, in this case the Civil Code, to the cases of male violence to give response to the needs of victims. And here I would like to put up with a _second, in defining the concept of ‘victim', because the sons and daughters of abusive couples are victims. Infants are surely the most invisible victims. They're second in line, also for the will of the seas to protect them from the violence they suffer. There are many witnesses of infants who have passed through this calvary describing situations where the seas ask them to stay indoors so they won't hear the shots, so they won't hear the screams. I've got fans to protect them. The change that the PSC is making to us today is common sense. It's logical. And those of us who are not eager to deal directly with these cases, surprise us. Personally, I am amazed that what we are trying to change today, what we are proposing to change today, is that when there is a conviction or a criminal complaint for one of the parents for having exercised violence or good against the children or good against the other parent, it is only the fact that, in the vast majority of cases, against the sea, it is not the case that the abuser gives permission for these children to receive a psychological assessment and care. Do they have the right aggressors to deny the recovery of victims? The answer is no. It is obvious, however, that in cases of male violence, in the role that children have, we have to agree to go much further. A change of perspective, a change of focus that is doubtful must incorporate the feminist perspective in order to answer a question that currently our society, justice is not solved or resolved in a sense that does not protect the rights of infants. Can an abuser be a good father? The answer is no. We cannot consider a good father who has humiliated, beaten, vexed or tried to kill your mother, no matter what. I'd like to recall some news a few weeks ago to Father Alacant, because sometimes talking about laws in generic can sound cold and long, but when the derivatives of these laws are explained and how they can affect people's lives, it's more obvious than ever that you need to incorporate these legislative changes that we're planting today. And many more, as I used to say, huh? What is needed is a change of perspective, a perspective that prioritizes children's rights. Mirin, last September, the Local Police of Paterna, Alacant, disobeyed the court that forced a child of six years old until Terol, until Teruel, to visit his father in prison, where he completes his sentence for having mistreated his mother. Amongst many other attacks, spikes to the panxa when she was pregnant with him. It was two years old that the infant didn't see his parent. The boy was crying and trembling about and the officers decided to contradict a court order. It's not a winged fact. It is an exhibition of how the system causes more damage to the victim after having suffered an aggression, especially in a sphere as intimate as that of the family. The priority of the judicial system to prevent the minor from suffering secondary victimization must always be the protection of the infant, not the application of the authorized country. The priority must be children, not miscondemned. Being on the side of the victims is also being on the side, as Mrs Ibarra said, of the professionals who support them, and giving them legal certainty in their interventions is also a duty of the public authorities. Now a year ago, on the Solidarity programme in Catalonia Radio, where this question was addressed and it was carried by the title "Children of male violence, invisible victims, the witnesses of Marc, one of these victims, made the following statement that I think it illustrates very well the situation that many of these children see: "If you are a child and you have for one person, your father, one of your own figures of reference and they force you to go to see it, you must think that it is as if you were forced to lock yourself in a cage with a hungry leopard. To think that a person, selectively, can exercise violence against the woman, but not against the children, is completely unreal. We're studying how attackers always sort out who they hold on to, and underneath there are always infants. Therefore, forward with this and with all the modifications that can come to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, in this turn, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Anna Tarrés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.180.0	Thank you very much, President. It will advise, deputies and deputies, the data on the 2020 domestic violence of the Department of Interior tell us that, in the first two quarters of this year, there have been a total of 836 fewer between zero and disset years as victims of domestic male violence. Throughout the year 2019, a total of 1,724, of which 260 had to go to live with their mother outside the house, protected in the centers of the Generalitat. These are data that's gonna hit us. All the violence has victims silenced, and in male violence, in the domestic sphere, these victims are the least. It is evident that male violence suffered at home has an impact on the physical health of minors, and, above all, it also has an impact on mental health, causes significant emotional disruptions, conditions their personal well-being and development and causes serious problems of salvation, and converts minors into instruments to exercise domination and violence over the sea, and favors the intergenerational transmission of these violent conducts over women. It is obvious, therefore, that we find ourselves with people who need a professional approach, most of the time an urgent professional approach. At present, however, in order to subdue the minor to this professional treatment such as the consent of both parents, and here is the problem. In this sense, it is obvious that in any event this approach cannot be left in the hands of the parent who causes this violence, nor must it be conditioned by a possible lack of parental consent by disagreement. This situation may be contrary to existing international conventions and standards. The 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child establishes the obligation of states to take all appropriate measures to protect the child from all forms of physical and mental injury or abuse. Especially noteworthy is Article 19 of this text, which reduces the obligation of the signatory states or adherents to adopt appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child against – as we have already said before – all forms of injury or physical or mental abuse, neglects and mistreatment, among others, and thus adjudicates effective procedures with the objective of providing medical assistance to minors and other forms of protection, such as identification, treatment and subsequent observation in cases of mistreatment and, if they correspond, also judicial intervention. Cal, moreover, avoid that the professionals of psychology are under pressure, both on the part of the father and the mother, under the argument of the exercise of their right, thus denying consent to children being physically diagnosed and receiving treatment. It is an institutional compromise the total eradication of male violence and guarantee the salvation of minors who suffer from this situation. And that's why we also consider it necessary to modify the book according to the Civil Code to guarantee psychological intervention in women, underage children, and girls of women in a situation of male violence in the area of the public service network of the Government of Catalonia. In this respect, we would like to thank the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for moving forward, and in particular the Member of Parliament Ibarra, for her proposal, if we would like to make it clear that since the Catalan Institute of Donations more than three years ago, she has been working on this line and that the Catalan Association for the Defence of Human Rights has been tasked to develop an analysis of the normal context of this problem. Remember that on April 27, 2020, this association already delivered to the ICD the report prepared for lawyers Teresa Blasi, Esther Palmés, Pilar Rebaque and Maria Roig and, finally, Mrs Mariona Sardà, we talk and conclude everything that we have been talking about. Therefore, after this presentation of motius we announce that we will support the processing of the text in the form of a single reading, while announcing that we will present papers that go in the line of strengthening and enhancing the measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, I guess this point will vote after the dinar break. [[Interview with the Government on local world coordination during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[300-00319/12]] We're still with the interrogations. And, first of all, the question of coordination with the local world during the Covid-19 pandemic, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Marta Moreta's deputy. Forward. [[Long break. Widow's remorse.]] Come on, Congresswoman, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.182.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies... As you know, during this legislature we have asked him several times to talk about the urgent needs of the local world. When he came out here at the cliff he wanted to give the feeling that the government has coordinated in an exemplary way with the assemblies and everyone knows that this is not quite right, because I just need to talk to the mayors and the mayors and he's going to get to know what the reality is. The supposed coordination with the assemblies, in fact, does not exist and is a deception. Local corporations are tired of insisting on the Generality that they coordinate with them and keep them in mind. Counselor, there is not enough to meet with the Federation and the Association of Municipis, which is very important, but it is also not true that, as much as I have repeated, there is coordination. Actually, there wasn't this coordination, it wasn't enough. Mayors and mayors have not got an answer, and that's why we're back here today to claim co-government between the Generality and the joints. Your claim to co-government to the central government, but you have been unable to practice it with locals. On the other hand, the assemblies have put themselves at their disposal, they have made strenuous efforts to meet the needs that their government was demanding, they have made hands and hands to take resources from beneath the stones, but their response has not been up. I'll give you some examples, look: they're still waiting for resources for our trackers, and it's absolutely necessary that I share with the municipalities the epidemiological analysis with the transmission indexes and the rest of the indicators on our outbreaks and contagions. Do you know what's going on, Counselor? That the joints have taken on the purchase of computers and internet connections for vulnerable families, so that they can follow the school course; they have made investments in structural works at school for the school year; they have managed and paid for food bags throughout the summer; they have searched and placed space in schools to supplement classrooms or beds; they have given space to CAP to make PCRs or influenza vaccinations; they have increased the netness of schools; they have made use of the disinfections of the couples of the summer; they have made purchases of PPEs for the residents of large people, and now, after all, the joints are in charge of you that the community supports them directly, because they are living in a state. And it's obvious that what we need is the generality to do the same and transfer the money to the joints, to pay what it is: the autonomes, the restorers or, quite simply, the people who didn't get up at the end of the month; and that can be done with the resources that came from the state. Councillor, the Barcelona City Council's Past Sales Plenary agreed to ask the Generality for approval of an economic and social plan to address the city's reconstruction and momentum. The initiative presented for the SCP, among other things, requires that all the resolutions taken by the Government and directly or indirectly affect the economic management of the Consistor be accompanied by economic resources. Do you see that they claim it all together? Certainly, the proposal was endorsed by all the constituent groups, except for Juntes per Catalunya, who abstained from it. Doesn't that make you think maybe you're not doing well with the gatherings? In fact, the proposal also calls for what we have already reiterated on various occasions: co-responsibility, coordination and collaboration between the assemblies and the Generality. Counselor, this co-governance is not seen by place and, in fact, the municipalities do not understand it this way. For this reason, I want to intensify this cooperation with local authorities, with the mayors and with the mayors of all the municipalities of Catalonia. And the first one that should be done would be to liquidate during 2021 all the debts that still hold with many gatherings of Catalonia; it would be a way to begin to reverse the shortcuts to the local world and the hard delay in the payments to all kinds of transfers from the current government, and thus be able to bring to an end the maintenance of the essential services. We also believe that it is essential to increase the resources from the co-operation fund by EUR 200_million to cover the costs of the competitions assumed for joint ventures that were not close to them. In the question I asked him in June he answered me, with text words: "We are working so that we can provide the local world with an extraordinary source of local cooperation. That's four months ago; today I'd like to ask you what you know, because if I asked you four months ago and you answered that, I'd like you to explain it to me today. And the most important thing, he will advise, is that immediately – and I stress: immediately – there is a plan of economic and social cohesion for the assemblies, which is what we approved..., which he approved, in fact, the Barcelona Assembly, because, as you know, local entities have seen significantly reduced their entrances because they have approved tax relief measures for their citizens, and in particular for the most vulnerable collectivities. It is also necessary to create an extraordinary rescue fund for the social and economic reconstruction that is endowed..., in our days with 500_million euros, where the joints are participants and co-responsible for their development and manage it. Don't you think it is essential that the municipalities have a role to play in the economic and social recovery of the country? I'm sure it will coincide with me that the gatherings have been crucial in all these months of pandemic, and that municipalism has put itself in value as much as the most effective tool to be on the people's side. There are nine requests and it is clear that it must be completed with the municipal authorities. And, for example, 85_percent of the recapitulation of penalties applied to local police for the failure of security measures related to the Covid should be reversed in local administrations, bearing in mind that the assemblies have reinforced with civic agents or local police many actions to address these social demands. It is also essential to establish a mechanism to coordinate, through the Commission of Local Governments, the projects that the Generality has proposed to present to the European Foundation for Reconstruction, so that the assemblies have the role that the surrounding people, taking into account that the incidence to the city will be very high and will have to take into account the territorial specificities. And I'm going to claim it again, and I'm not going to stop doing it, which immediately reversed the decision to reallocate the Feder funds as the health expense derived from the coronavirus. In addition, counsel, this has already been approved in various motions here in Parliament, as has the Pla de xoc economique, and you..., what happens to us is that they continue to do nothing and have approved it in this chamber. In fact, I think they're capable of sending nanosatellites to space and they're not capable of providing an economic platform for gathering together. I'll be waiting for you to answer, advise, all the questions I've asked you, and in my second intervention I'll just raise some needs that have the joints and that during this first intervention you don't give time to be able to plant them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.183.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word "Conseller of the Presidency", Ms. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.184.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Moreta, I begin the answer to her question with a statement, I think she gives a clear and unequivocal answer to what you are asking: Miri, the Government of Catalonia is a municipalist government; we define ourselves so that we believe it, because we are municipalists and because we are working alongside our assemblies, because we are talking about what we think and what we are working with the philosophy that Catalonia is also building from the assemblies. And, therefore, the alliance and cooperation with the local world is our determination and our priority. And I can tell him that yes, that I'm talking, that I'm working on it and that we're folding it. And not just with the municipalist entities, almost every week, and more so with this health crisis that we are patenting, in telematically meeting with representatives of the local world, that they are not only the presidents or presidents of the municipalist entities, but also meeting at the same time with the four presidents of the parliaments, huh? , with the President of the Barcelona Parliament and the deputies of Lleida, Girona and Tarragona. Also, at these meetings, there are the mayors or mayors of the main cities of our country. We are talking, for example, about the Mayor of Barcelona, the Mayor of Girona – who is here –, the Mayor of Lleida or the Mayor of Tarragona. And in this meeting he also represented the entity of Micropoples de Catalunya, I understand that it is also a very important reality and to take into account in our country. And there are also the territorial delegates, because this way you can reach all the municipalities of our country. And with them we are working together, we debate and analyze the situation in which we are finding ourselves day by day. In fact, you have heard me say several times in this chamber that the Government of the Generality works with the local world and always does so following the principles of recognition, coordination and cooperation. This is the way we understand we have to work with the local world. I'll explain... – I think I explained it to you, you told me that you asked me, certainly, a few months ago, and then I explained to you that this was our model, and I repeat it today. We are very clear that together we can lead, that together we are able to lead the necessary transformations in our country to face the challenges of the future. And that's why we also accompany the meetings from the dialog, to strengthen this link between the General Administration and the local administrations. And I'd say before, you know why? So why do we just believe that? Because we are clear that the local administrations are the ones on the front line, because we are clear that the local administrations are the ones giving a response, certainly from the crisis of the Covid-19. And that's why we're working with the assemblies from a bilateral perspective, so as to strategically align public policies that must maximize resources and ensure that the entire range of collections that will need them urgently because of this crisis, which is no longer just health care, but is economic and social. You... I've explained it to you a number of times, and I'm going to say it again today, who is it or who has been since the first moment the relationship we've had with the local world in the management of this pandemic. So, look, in a sentence I would say that we have multiplied relations with the local world and we have also multiplied these areas of deliberation and coordination. And, if you want, we can take a short rest from what has been the different phases that we have experienced until today. We are talking about the critical phase of the pandemic, as well as the decontainment – recordin, we are talking about the first wave –, the recovery and this current moment, of this second wave. And in this sense I want to talk about the day-to-day information that has been transferred to the local world from the onset of the pandemic through communications, for example, of the Cecat in the form of warnings, communications and resolution of frequent issues. Moreover, from the very first moment on, the Secretary of Local Administration participated in the Technical Committee of the Procicate to coordinate the Government's action with local authorities, and established a stable communication and coordination circuit through the territorial delegates of the Government, as I said, and the territorial services of the Department of the Presidency. And when the decontainment arrived, the first was to guarantee a participation of the local world through a technical commission that was formed by the two municipalist entities, the deputies and in that case the Barcelona Assembly, so as to work folded the sectoral decontainment plans that have a direct impact on the local administration. Therefore, dialog, communication and teamwork. For this commission it is worth saying that more than forty sectoral plans of decontainment have passed for such a contribution previously to the approval of the Procicate. The local world has seen, the local world has voted. And with this measure we have managed to work in a consensual way with local administrations all and each of the measures of the descalation phase. The criteria for opening and operating swimming pools, or the conditions for premises, establishments or open spaces, which have been completed to celebrate cultural events and performances, can also be used as an example. And for what it refers to recovery, and following the logic of the government's bilaterality with the local world, a local world work group has been created in the Economic and Social Reactivation Commission, the Korean, driven by the government of Catalonia. From this working group, proposals are being made that can help economic recovery, from the alliance of the government and local authorities, in different subjects, such as culture, sports, trade, tourism, or priority country investments, or local funding. One aspect I want to highlight from this group is that it is not only working on the ground of urgency, but it is working with a strategic look at the medium and long term. And from here where have the government's actions been in the local sphere? Because, of course, once you've done the coordination, once you've designed and decided the actions, you can implement them. And to do that, you know what I mean? So I call liquidity and I call finance. For what you do to finance, let me tell you that the financing model..., six years ago we have a model that is expired; a financing model that causes Catalonia at these times to be the third community in providing resources to the State, but that is the fourteen, so the penultimate one, huh? , in real resources of the State. And in this sense we also spoke of liquidity, and precisely in this line we have worked from the Government of the Generality, and precisely because this has been one of our priorities to implement policies of reversal in the local world, as you know, because I have explained it several times; it has been the recovery of the PUOSC, of this unique program of works and services of the Generality, this accompanying in the investments of the local world; a program that I win this month of November, therefore, will already be resolved, and therefore the municipalities will already have the definitive resolution of which is the reversal of the Government of Catalonia towards their territories. And we also have, as you know, the local funds with liquidity, the local funds of cooperation, so as to strengthen, because this is also our will, the liquidity so that the joints can strengthen their structures as well and ensure that they can establish lines of social help or emergence. We are also talking, today, about the European Feder funds in which we are working on aspects of competitiveness, innovation and development of territories, and that we have already recovered that game which at one point had to be allocated, yes, to real needs of healthcare expenditure. Or support lines for high-value municipal infrastructure that contribute to equal opportunities between Catalonia's citizens, more than fighting also against demography or population loss. Or the lines of institutional support that allow locals to develop their normal functioning. Or help them in territorial dynamism. Or the direct subsidy lines. And in this sense we see, for example, also the direct subsidies in Covid expenses, for example to Segria, that in its moment, and already from this department that I represent, we will bring it an import of 2_million_i_mig euros. And while from the Government of Catalonia we responded to these real needs, at that time, let us remember, in the segrià confinement, President Pedro Sánchez assured La Sixth that "the pandemic was controlled and encouraged people to get out and lose their way. Mrs Moreta, yes, with the need for liquidity and funding, we are totally in agreement; we are totally in agreement that this follow-up and this common dialogue between the administrations, this cooperation and this coordination. Look, the government and the local world are the essential alliance to move this country forward. That's it. And to your question that I have on the Local Cooperation Fund extraordinary, so I can tell you that we are just quantifying what the extraordinary contribution has to be through this Local Cooperation Fund that the Government of the Generality will last from the local governments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.185.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the deputy has a turn now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.186.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I hope they won't be four more months, because the legislature is over now. So you should start speeding this up, huh? In fact, I also wanted to talk to him about some meetings. You have made reference to the meetings, which meet with different municipalist entities. They also met with different mayors for health regions. And it's very good, the initiative is very good, it's very interesting and it's necessary, but I remind you that at the last meeting of the health regions there was neither a counselor nor one. I don't think that's the way to proceed. They all have a lot of work, the assemblies and the mayors also have a lot of work, but there is not a representative, nor one, democratically elected in this meeting, nor seems to me to be the most appropriate measure. Well, let's talk about housing, she'll advise. We believe that we should immediately raise the suspension of the submission of requests for help in the usual housing loggers to help minimize, precisely, the economic and social impact of the Covid. And the generality would have to assume 100_percent of the cost of gatherings to deal with the application of the agreement that obliges to inspect the empty habitats of gatherings and that at these times previews that local corporations will assume 50_percent. The agreement between the Government of Catalonia and the local governments on the establishment of comprehensive approaches to the management of the energy poor in Catalonia, and the creation and provision of a solid foundation for the energy poor, must also be developed. And in educational matters, she advises, we must ensure that the resources needed to continue providing the services to education from zero to three years..., it is done in a consensual and well thought out way, because it cannot be translated into this lack of support, and also resources, in a loss of educational opportunities for children with more vulnerable families. Even if you stop helping, lines of help, children's homes with more difficulties. We don't have to force ourselves to guarantee enough food during the school year and coordinate it with the assemblies. This is very important to give the service also to those who are making quarantines caused by the Covid. And in health matters, the CAPs and local health consultants will have to be re-opened in coordination with the local authorities. It can't be that I don't give any explanation to the mayors and the mayors, no concreteness. And that happens. For many meetings that we do, if they don't realize when they open the CAPs, which way they will, it's no use to coordinate us. There should also be a common social emergency table between the Government of the Generality and the assemblies with the capacity to provide sufficient resources to help the business and family territories affected by the current situation of the pandemic we are experiencing. And we should expand the economic measures so that the assemblies can make extraordinary employment plans to increase the staff of social services and their appropriate professional profiles, such as workers and social educators, psychologists..., to make an interdisciplinary approach to the current situation. You know perfectly well, Counselor, and now you said a moment ago, that the call for the Single Work and Service Platform has been insufficient to meet the needs of local people. We believe that it has been insufficient. Why? Home, because if we make a comparison, two years ago President Montilla allocated 648_million euros– 648_million euros– and you, at the end of two years, get a call of 250_million euros. It's obvious you're insufficient. I will finish my intervention explaining what I was saying about the economy, that if we are not well financed in Catalonia... Well, so, look, explain that Catalonia has received funds from the State and that at the end of the year will be more than 3,200_million euros– 3,200_million euros–, and we have not yet seen, and you have not answered, that they will do this economic shock plan that needs the assemblies. Therefore, I think that no more excuses are worth already, and that what they have to do is meet, continue to gather, but apply the things that the assemblies need. And the economic and social shock plan is a necessity. And by the way, get the Feders back? What Feders are you talking about? You have to be the culture part, because the rest hasn't recovered, she'll advise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, the councillor has a turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.188.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, it's all right that your speech, therefore, revolves around all the weights of the Generality towards the local world. Look, listen to me, probably, so, like anything else, it can get better, and this is always the will of this government, to improve day by day and to work to really guarantee, to provide all the foundations and everything that the local world is needed to work effectively from this cooperation and from this coordination that we believe and value much from the government of Catalonia. But, look, do you know what's going on? That you, who are ruling at these times in the Spanish State, seem to be oblivious, too, so whose responsibility do you not have? And what you have to see with all the weights of the State that directly affect the local world. And that's easy to hear. And you know it perfectly well. I've never felt that self-criticism before. More. I've never heard them ask for the resources that are close to Catalonia. I've never heard them do it. In fact, believe 'but I personally have no will to come here, in this Faristol, to shield me from blaming Madrid for what works or what it lets work. Not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not Do you know what you'd want, me? To make me more independent of Madrid so that I can take these decisions and have the necessary resources to accompany these needs that we have also detected from the Government of Catalonia towards the local world. But, look, unfortunately, that's not it. I have already explained before, therefore, what is the reality of Catalonia's contribution to the finances of the Spanish State and what is the return of this economic quantity to Catalonia by the Spanish State. All unfair and all unbalanced. Miri, you've just... just approved or submitted some assumptions that we haven't seen yet a better amount of funding conditions for Catalonia. The moment we see there's a recovery, a recovery... And that's enough? - Is that enough? I'm sorry, it's insufficient. If we start with the resources that still owe us the third additional provision, more than 3,800_million euros of accumulated debt, historical, this is not solved. Since the structural fiscal deficit suffered by Catalonia has not been resolved for many years, and these resources could be made available to us and we would be a top country. I can guarantee that. But, look, I'll set them a practical example, there, palpable, and small, and short. Miri... And beyond what the Covid pandemic is. I will tell you, for example, about the temporary Dana, or Gloria, that we wanted to suffer a year ago: 14_million euros that we made available, from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, to the contingency fund, to accompany in the reversal and repositioning, to the joints, of everything that had been bad in municipal equipment. From these contingencies, it means that today we already have assigned more than 6_million. In fact, this very week, the Cabrils Assembly will approve 326,000 euros to deal with the reversal they required to repair the damage caused by the temporary Dana. And in this sense, do you know what's going on? So look, that on the part of the Spanish State is missing..., because still – still, still – they have not made the decree that says which is the presuppositional game that on the part of the Spanish Government they would place here. And at these moments that we are already resolving since the Government of Catalonia contributions to the local world, which in this case correspond to 50_per_cent, do you know what is very big? It is very large that since the Government of the Spanish State it has not only not been working on what will be its contribution in these affected municipalities, but that they have not approved by decree or put on the table which will be the economic contribution they will make in these affected municipalities for the waters and the storms that have now suffered in these municipalities a year ago. One year and yet they haven't put in the xifra that allows these joints to end the reversal. Why, do you know what's going on? That if these joints do not receive 50_percent of the subsidy that surrounds them on behalf of the State, these joints will not be able to last long after these investments necessary to repair the damages that fall from these times. And, finally, with the PUOSC. Breument: 648_million tell me you're going to make arrangements? Yeah, and you know what happened? Because I was mayor at the time... do you know what happened to those 648 million? So, that these 648_millions, these compromised aids didn't have a guaranteed source of funding from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And you know what happened? Therefore, this caused debt and caused tensions of treasuries at the gatherings, at the local level, to be able to face the expenses because there was a expenditure without a guarantee of funding for the long term this reversal. That was it. The government of Catalonia, yes, we did not put 250. We'd have liked to put 500 on it, but I assure you that these 250_million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.189.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.190.0	...that since the government of Catalonia we have posed, they will pay. And, therefore, they will not generate any tensions of treasuries or debt problems in the local world, as they will do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.191.0	Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.192.0	... these 648_million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.193.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.194.0	Thank you. Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.195.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the Government about the impact of the Covid-19 on the local world]] [[300-00326/12]] The next question is about the impact of the Covid on the local world. And the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Marta Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.196.0	Good morning. After, of course, this question that Mrs Moreta has just made to him, in which I also had some doubts, I also wanted to make some reflections on the local world, on the collaboration, effective, real... Because, of course, you and I have met with other advisors and advisors of this Government at many meetings, haven't you? Therefore, precisely working on how to reverse the effects of the Covid, as we also found ourselves with mayors, therefore, of the same group, of Mrs Moreta, or as the same mayor of Barcelona. Therefore, this collaboration and these joint reflections are actually there. But now, perhaps, so, if I may, and given that I find it important that from the Faristol also take advantage of all the estons that are possible to make also a little teaching for the citizenry and given what has just been explained and demanded and asked by Mrs Moreta to the Government of the Generality, so I may find that it is interesting also to introduce the support to the local world where Mrs Moreta left it. What is it: are we well funded? Are we well funded by the Generality? Is it well funded? Are we well funded in locals? He left it here, that was the final question, and I might almost be the initial one. Because, listen, we all know each other a lot, and I know the first one, and the counselor knows it. Jo, the first one. But, listen, the numbers have to come out, too. And what it cannot be is to come here and let go of this list that we can all do, this or much longer, but to make it obvious that they also have responsibilities and important respect for the funding of both the Generality and the locals. I, when I joined this Parliament as a Member of Parliament, was already mayor and precisely what helped me to take this step, like other mayors who are here, is because we know that this is how we can offer our voice, the voice of the local world, the voice of the municipal world, in this hemisphere, and put all our knowledge in the hands of the citizenry and that we are making the best possible decisions. As it is also true that the councillor – and now I remember, and she has remembered it – she also did, because she had also been mayor, and she also knows as well as some mayors that we are here, so an assembly is the first line of political action ever before the city. Possibly, many citizens will only know this political face, that of their mayor or their mayor. Therefore, we are the visible face of this public management. We're the first door where the city calls when there's some kind of difficulty, and now there's a lot, there's a lot. We are this direct contact with the veins and veins, and now these veins and veins are injecting us with a high dose of knowledge, knowledge of the dramatic difficulties they are experiencing. Our fellow citizens and our souls and our locals are experiencing very difficult and complicated situations. What do you want to tell the local world people? What do they have to tell us? We see the winter coming. We see, winter and spring, and it'll be tough, and people will suffer, and people will suffer, and people will suffer. And our priority is obviously to preserve, that of the salvation of people, but it is also essential to work for the welfare state. And that means that people must also be able to have their place of work. And if it doesn't generate wealth, then it can't be redistributed. So we need to help the economic sector, because if we can't redistribute the wealth and we can't help anyone at all. We see how people have gone unworked and put names to them. And like self-employed people, so, they dropped their bills, but the Spanish government changed their share of self-employed people, huh? I don't know if it is. We also see how companies are preparing to support and, when we get out of this pandemic, to be able to give up again with dynamism, therefore, our entire economy. But it's true that gatherings need two things. We need, for a band, to be heard. Why? Because that's how you can make correct decisions based on diagnosis. And that's important. And we also need more resources. And we also need more funding. And it's that, at these movie heights – let me – we are very concerned about the fever, we're feverishly committed by the Spanish government to the locals. I'll give you some examples, huh? Because, just starting this pandemic, and the truth is that I made enough of it, the first measure – the first –, the first measure announced by the Spanish Government is to halve the active employment policies; it is to say, now that everyone has come to see that the fight against the plight of the main ones facing any public administration, goes the Spanish Government and halves the funding for active employment policies. Unaudited. And that's not what he's talking about. Just as unheard of was this famous persistent intent to attempt to requisition our resources, from the gatherings. This was not done by the Generalitat, this was the Spanish government, and they wouldn't let us use our stalls and they wouldn't let us in debt. And listen, they're back to saying..., and today you said it, and the government made promises, promises, promises..., but I still today, like the mayor, can't do everything they say. Because he hasn't approved yet. I can't do it yet. As far as I'm concerned, the Spanish government is clear, huh? Coffee for everyone. When I got it. When it suits, coffee for everyone. But when it comes to working with the municipalities, to working with the Generality, to working, in short, with the citizenry, it is the coffee for him alone. It's this... because listen, I see in Madrid that when it comes to feet and ostentation, so that's good and there's no pandemic that's worth it. I, Counselor, don't know... he explained what measures we were interested in having a manifesto, because it's true, they're important to the municipality and we need them. I don't think there's that kind of co-operation, that it's just gonna come out. It's important, it's imperative. And it's true that we find ourselves with one of the worst crises of modern times that we remember. And now we're on this second day, that we find ourselves, together, in a very different situation because after the first one..., the first day was the month of fever, we just approved the assumptions, we all have our own arches, so, well, quite full, but now we find ourselves in a completely different situation, because we are exhausted, because we have allocated all our resources to help the citizenry, because we have tried to help as much as we could in the various forms..., as we could, the citizenry, the autonomies; helping the restoration, that you see as you have had to deal, etcetera, no? But I'm following it, that's to say, the most important help that can always be done by the State, and that can't be overlooked. Why, who has the skills in autonomies or in social security? Who is it that collects the big taxes, the IRPF, the corporate tax, the VAT? That's what's really impacting. Or, in the past, do not tell them a thousand euros, listen, they count all the shares of the autonomes and inject liquidity, please. That's what they have to do. And it's that it doesn't have to go any further, it's that it's copy-tapping from European states, which... it's that they've all done. And no one said: "We see the region, to see how it can inject... No, no, the states do. Listen, why not this state? We've had the bad luck of being in this state that doesn't... so, that doesn't, does it? And of course, that means we don't have the financial instruments, that we can't do anything about taxes because they're totally competitive with your state, and with the tax deficit... And you will say, "Don't say it, they say it from Ciutadans." But listen, it does exist. And this tax deficit is there. And if we have 16, 15, 14, 13, 10 – it's the same – millions more..., forgive me, that you, Mrs. Moreta, could no longer come here to make the speech that you have made. Clearly, I was surprised that you were doing this absolutely, so what is the responsibility of your group. Because it is his group that respects the Spanish State... "Yes, yes, we are here, but we lack this money and we lack this funding. And we lack money, finance, and the necessary tools to change the laws that you need – that you have been compromised, but we still wait – ‘to speed up the administrative process' – yet we are also waiting for this change to be made. So these three tools are owned by the Spanish State. So, listen, what are we doing here? So that's it. They also accept it and say it, and maybe when they're there they fight so that we can get these tools back or if we don't have the necessary resources; the necessary resources that they send to the Generality and that ultimately they send us to the gatherings. Listen, we're not in a bowl, the gatherings; we're with the little ones on the ground; we're in front of the little dog. We need all administrations to work with us; all of us. It's not just the Administration of the Generality. We need the Spanish State to help us, too. And it's true that we need these generalities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, now, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.198.0	Thank you, President. MP Madrenas, certainly, the municipalities need to be listened to and need more resources. And in this sense I repeat what I said in my question that I had just done, therefore, Mrs Moreta, that this is the will of this Government: to work collaboratively with the assemblies, cooperating and collaborating in everything that is necessary. And I also went through my recognition for all the assemblies of our country without exception, and also for the regional councils and also for the parliaments, because in this case day by day in the fight against the pandemic and its economic and social effects, the work that is due to the end, the involvement of all the local corporations of our country, is a collaborative, rigorous and effective work. Therefore, go ahead of my grace. Miri, before I defined the government of Catalonia as a municipalist government, huh? , a definition I have used several times in this chamber. And that's because we believe it, and that's because we have the most absolute conviction that locals are the accomplices necessary for the long term public policies in our country. Because locals are the best channel for institutions to be able to make efficient public servers from the vicinity. And speaking of proximity, I like to make a simile that I think is useful to explain in a very didactic and clear way the importance and transcendence of the concept of proximity of joints. And it's that the assemblies could say that it's for the conjunction of public policies that primary care is for the health system, that is, the gateway of all the citizens of our country to public administration. And that's it. And that's what we believe and we have to work with this end. But you said it, Mrs. Madrenas: to be listened to and more resources. And unfortunately, at these times, Catalonia did not have all the skills that give us all the resources needed to be able to help a just and correct financing with locals, which at these times is not there. Therefore, funding model, as I said before, that the band more than six years ago that has expired, causes Catalonia to be the third most resource-generating community and fourteen in real waste resources. And this is an existing data, this is a contrasting data and it's a real data. A state that does not complete with its historical debts, such as the historical debt of the financing of the Mosso d'Esquadra, which is still pending, or the debt of the 3,800_million euros in concept of the additional third provision of the State to reverse the historical deficit in the matter of infrastructures. Precisely last week, they were reminded before, were presented the assumptions of the State, they were assigned to Catalonia 16.5_percent of the total regionalizable, a proportion still far from our pes in the Spanish economy, a proportion that has been decided with population criteria and not with criteria of contribution of resources, with criteria of GDP. But the most important problem, more than this, apart from economic under-dotting, is that, above all, this assumption never ended, never ended. Actually, I'm not saying it, I'm saying the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce tells us that during the period 2001-2018, 8,000_million euros, equivalent to 3.3_percent of Catalan GDP, have ceased to be executed. And do you know what's going on? So if the State had executed this total of the supposed investment in transport infrastructure in Catalonia, for example, that would have allowed it to generate 20,000_million euros of additional billing to the territory and could have created more than 111,000 full-time work places. Opinions that don't just say the Cambra, but that are also shared by Foment de Traball. And that would also have a direct and positive impact on the local world. I'm not convinced. Or a theme that precisely meets well, as is the law of dependence. The Spanish government has never financed the portion that surrounds them by law, which should be 50_per_cent and only pays 12_per_cent of the cost. And of course, what's going on with all the rest? So, look, whatever the government of the Spanish state doesn't pay, it has to end up paying the generality and, therefore, assuming 88_percent of the cost. And do you know how much more money the General has paid for today? So 3,418_million euros, it's almost 400_million euros a year, a few million dollars that in accounts to go, for example, to the local world, as they could go, as we would need years, so they will have to go to pay and to finance what the State today has not yet paid that people need. Miri, the priorities of the Government are clear, those of the Government of Catalonia, clear; they are clear as to the protection of health, they are clear as to the protection of education, they are clear as to the rescue of those most vulnerable. I told you before, we won't let any city stand back. They are clear about responding to the different productive sectors affected by this crisis, and God's faith that we are doing so. They are clear about the relationship with the local world. Now, maybe the question we have to ask ourselves is, who are the priorities of the Spanish Government? What's his attitude? Because, look, if you ask me, I can only say that, among its priorities of this pandemic, we find ourselves, for example, in charge of 348 armoured, with a cost of 2,100_million euros, to push the quotas of the autonomous, at these times, that what they need is protection, that what they need is accompanying the administrations; we push the quotas to the autonomous. Increase the presupposition of a family by 6.9_per_cent, concretely the royal family by 6.9_per_cent, and increase the presupposition. Tell me, how many families in this country saw the year 2021 increase with a 6.9_per_cent assumption? I'm telling you, boss. And his attitude before this new state of alarm, too, we've seen who it is. A state of alarm that is necessary, a state of alarm that we wanted from the Government of Catalonia to ask and that we have no problem in saying it; it's more, we demanded it, but in the same way we also demand that you be aware of the one that is said to be wrong and that has not been so. Therefore, we demand all those measures that have also included this state of alarm and I will be very clear with three types of measures that are basic and that Pedro Sánchez's Government has not yet envisaged: measures to give the skills to Catalonia in order to be able to adopt the necessary action plans to control the evolution of the pandemic, but also economic and social follow-up measures for those sectors and families directly affected. This state of alarm in which we find ourselves today does not contemplate any measure of this type and, since the Government of Catalonia, we are giving an answer. Actually, I don't know..., I think what is the measure that I now see in the head that the government of Pedro Sánchez wanted to apply and I think you, Mrs. Madrenas, that he has said this about the local world. So he wanted to stay with the Romanesque of the gatherings, with the stalwart that generated the corporations because they did the job well, those gatherings that have stalwarts, that have Romans and surplus and the Government of the Spanish State what he intended to do was to stay with these moneys of the local world, in account of allowing these moneys to be reinvested and, therefore, reverting to the promotion and projection of the territory. Miri, to finish – I finish already – in this pandemic, if he has set out to manifest one thing clear is that Catalonia is inviolable if it continues to feel an autonomy. And, therefore, for the local world, as important part of this country, but also for salvation and also for the economy and, ultimately, for the people, for all those citizens and citizens of our country, the best we can do at these times is to achieve independence in the form of a republic, because only in this way can we be able to give the real answer that the citizens and citizens of our country need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.199.0	Thank you, Counselor. After this inquiry, we suspend the session until three-quarters of four in the afternoon, which we will begin with the vote on item 2 of the agenda. We'll start with the second-point vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.200.0	Let's resume the session. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family (continuation)]] [[202-00028/12]] As I had informed them just before this quarter, the first point of this delay is the vote of the second point of the agenda. So let's call it a vote first. [[Long break.]] Well, then, let's proceed to the vote of this point on the agenda, which corresponds to the proposal for direct and single reading, before the plenary, of the proposed law amending the Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. Ask the chamber if..., no; forgive me, it's not the decree, excuse me. [[Rialles.]] [[Decree-Law No 34/2020 of 20 October on urgent measures to support economic activity in rented premises]] [[203-00059/12]] Let us pass, now, to the next point of the order of the day, which is precisely the validation of the decrees. And, in this case, the debate on the validation of Decree Law 34/2020, of 20 October, of urgent measures to support economic activity developed in rented trading venues. According to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, in the first place the Councillor of Justice will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, she will advise Capella, when she wishes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please... thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.201.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. To contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the competent authorities have been obliged to take various measures to suspend or restrict economic activities which have had an obvious and immediate impact on the sectors which are ultimately affected. The loss of entry to these sectors has placed them in an economic situation which is compromised by the difficulty of meeting their contractual obligations, and, more concretely, by paying the rent of premises, a situation which has particularly affected local entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The urgent and extraordinary measures taken by the Government under Decree-Law 34/2020 of 20 October were intended to prevent and prevent, precisely, that the situation described consisted of a large number of economic activities, the loss of a large number of places of work and, therefore, the loss of subsistence means of a large number of persons and families. And it adds: also the loss of the collective imagination, how our cities and towns conform, through their proximity trade, their locals, bars, restaurants, where they develop..., and other locals where they develop economic activities. So, too, the security of our cities and towns, and social cohesion. The locking of a blind of any of the places that are open to the public, therefore, is also the locking of a configuration of a city or a town, but, as I say, it has to do with security and social cohesion. It is clear that those who have a rented trading venue may have gone or gone to the tenant's side and set up a partial or total cancellation or cancellation of some of the monthly payments, some of the returns of the lodger, but in view of the drastic change... and the motivation would be, too, the drastic and unexpected change in circumstances and difficulties to cope with the payment of the lodger. But, as everyone knows, as you know, one of the basic principles of our legal system is that the contract is law between the parties and, therefore, the pacts are to be completed, and they are to be completed in its terms and they are to be completed without excuses or excuses. And what's worth is the pact I'm serving. As a result, even though it was clear that the contractual balance had been broken, the lessor was not obliged to attend to the tenant's petitions and could follow them by demanding the timely and full payment of the agreed income. It is for this reason that it is necessary to establish a specific rule, with law rank, and with limited temporal validity. And that's what the government has done, that's what the government of the generality has done and what it does with this decree. As a concrete manifestation of the principle of solidarity, opt for an equal and equitable distribution of the negative and adverse consequences arising from the suspension or restriction of economic activities, as a consequence of the health emergency situation of the pandemic and to prevent these negative consequences solely and exclusively on one of the contracting parties. The measures taken are intended to support economic activities which are carried out in premises rented for commercial or industrial use, including cultural, teaching, sporting, recreational activities; as well as services which are particularly affected by the measures adopted – those services of aesthetics, hospitality, restoration – and which consist of..., the application of the Decree Law consists in the application of the rules which the details have continued. First, if the competent authority adopts measures which suspend or restrict the economic activities which are carried out in immovable leases, the Decree considers that the parties to the contract must be the parties that negotiate and agree on the best solution, so that the balance of the services, the obligations of the parties to the contract can be restored, in accordance with the requirements of good faith and the honour of the tracts, of the agreements, of the pacts. The parties have a_month to reach this agreement, already through negotiation, already through mediation. In this way, therefore, the first option adopted by the decree, the first measure proposed by the decree is to preserve and encourage the autonomy of the will of the parties: dialogue, negotiation and agreement. On the assumption that the parties do not reach an agreement, the Decree establishes the legal rules directly applicable to restore contractual fairness. It's like a legal wreck. In the first place, in the case of total suspension of the activity and while this measure lasts, the adoption of the measures adopted for the Government of restriction and, in this case, suspension of the activity or limitations by outages, per hour, etc., is previewed, first of all, suspension of all the activity, it is previewed that the return is resumed; suspension of the activity, it is previewed that the income is reduced in a 50_per_cent. If the activity is not suspected and the expansion or the opening times are restricted, the forecast is that the income is reduced in a proportion equivalent to half the loss of the profit of the immovable, as the rule is specific, these rules are equally applicable, even though the affected locals can provide the delivery service at home or the collection of products to the establishment. In addition, the decree also lays down the following rules: on the assumption that the lessee has provided additional guarantees to the legal bond, it is empowered to require that the lessor's share be covered by the obligation to reinstate those guarantees within the maximum period of one year. It is also allowed to give up the contract without penalty, in case the suspension or restriction measures are more than three months in the course of a year, whenever it is notified to the lessor in a reliable manner, with an antelacion_month. It is concrete that the reduction of the rent will be effective from the date on which the tenant part formulates the request to modify the contractual conditions to the tenant part. And finally, it is specified that the tenant part can use the powers conferred on it by the law decree, independently of the agreements reached by the contracting parties, before its entry into force. All such measures shall be established as default rules, if the shares, as such, do not reach a satisfactory agreement, at a prudent time and shall apply only during the period of validity of the prohibitions or restrictions imposed by the competent authority. The Government considered that the adoption of these rules was essential to ensure the protection and survival of our country's economic fabric and also to promote legal certainty, since the lack of regulation is always a source of uncertainty in times of economic instability and can lead to great conflict and major judicial collapse. From the very beginning, it had been proposed to deal with this situation and the rigid nature of the pact... the principle pacta is a servanda, still incorporating the so-called rebus sic stantibus clause, and, therefore, to incorporate it into our Civil Code. Tanmateix, it seems obvious to me that this was not the best solution. In the first place, because the Civil Code is refractory to the idea of urgency and does not have to be modified by decree or to attend situations of conjunctural character only in form, but that its regulation, its modification requires, therefore, curious intervention and with the will of survival and stability. Secondly, because it lacks its first title in the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, it should be collected, the general provisions applicable to all obligations and contracts must be collected, so that it is now incorporated in the rebus sic stantibus clause that it is supposed to inaugurate this title first with a totally winged and uncontextualized arrangement, an option that would take account of the good legislative technique and the trajectory followed until now, in the manufacture, such as, curose, systemic, solvent, with the will of survival, of the Civil Code. In the third place, and above all because the sic sic santibus rebus clause is a clause that judicializes the solution, since, if there is no agreement between the parties, therefore, it is right or it is necessary to resolve the concurrence or not of situations that must be conditioned and must determine a change in the circumstances of the contract to the courts, to which, in the end, they correspond to decide how to restore the contractual balance between the parties. It is obvious that I do not reveal any secret of state when I say that a resolution, a judicial sentence, a year and a half from now, two years and a half from now, three years and a half from now, does not solve the question and the problem that we raise and before what we find ourselves at these times. In other words, now incorporating the sic sic santibus into our Civil Code has not only not solved anything, but it could have made things worse, because it does not offer or offer an immediate solution and obviously increases litigation in a very clear way. Faced with this option, the Government, the Government of the Generality, assumed its responsibility without passing it to another of the powers of the State, still offering a direct and expedient solution to help preserve both existing contracts and all those entrepreneurial or economic initiatives affected by the pandemic. I also remember, as I said before, that we must preserve the economic and social fabric, and more so, as I said, the security of our towns and cities and also social cohesion. Notwithstanding this, and in view of the future, by means of this decree, the Government has also assumed and undertakes the undertaking to draw up and approve a draft law incorporating into the Catalan legal order the regulation of general character necessary for the restoration of contractual balance in the assumption that an unforeseen change may occur in the circumstances of the contracts. In any case, the economic regulation adopted now has its basis..., and is based on and based on the generality's competitions in the field of trade and promotion of economic activity which are expressly and respectively recognised in Articles 121 and 152 of the Statute, and also mainly in the exclusive competence in the field of civil law attached to Article 129 of the Statute. In short, it is necessary to react urgently to protect – I am finished, President – the entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic activity in general; it is necessary to offer immediate solutions to maintain our business fabric, and it is necessary to do so on the basis of the principle of solidarity, and without increasing the judicial collusion, to which the decree which today is subject to the validation of this Parliament responds. It is a fair and equitable measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the return of parliamentary groups to fix their position. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.203.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Capella, for your explanation. The decree that today brings us here, in this chamber, is, to our mind, a solution that has little, let's say, definitive. And, in fact, I believe that even the whole term'solution' is excessive for this text, for this decree that brings us today to the vote. In fact, we consider that what the Generalita has done once more is to translate the responsibility of resolving conflicts, problems, which should surely leave if not from a public direction, from a direction on the part of the Administration, in this case of the Autonomous Administration..., to translate it in a way – to our opinion – a little responsible to the individual. In this case, it is generating an expense, it is generating an obvious comparison between the figure of the tenants and the figure of the tenants. From this point of view, we very much value its commitment to respect for the basic principles of the contractual right, as is the principle of the pact are served, but we consider that the introduction, in a way that says a little clear, a little secure from the legal point of view of the clause, of the institution of the sic stantibus, is a little consistent and a little consistent with our legal order, both for what it says..., for the competences that it recognizes to this Parliament the State of Autonomy, as for the exclusive powers that the Constitution confers to the Central State, to the State in the final, or to the General Administration of the State, one of which, in accordance with Article 149 of the Constitution, precisely by virtue of civil law, or by virtue of civil law alone. From this point of view, we consider that no less is the fact, for example, that this decree provides for a fact, an extremely questionable fact as the applicability of the consequences of this decree is automatic. The moment the tenant sends the request to the tenant, the consequences of this decree begin to be effective. And from this point of view we consider that here there is a heaviness that leaves the tenants in a situation of feverish frankness, which, somehow, they are always – or they get used to being, I believe, in our community – the main victims of measures of these characteristics. Obviously, the situation is exceptional. It is obvious that exceptional situations require an approximation on the part of the different administrations that are brave, that take very much into account what you were saying, the principle of solidarity, that take very much into account the will to protect the jointness of the citizenry, to protect the salvation and also the economy of society, but we consider that with this approach that is done by the Government of the Generality with this decree, what is precisely done is to harm the tenants in an excessively costly way, that, moreover, there is no difference, it is not so, there is no prelance or difference between the different ones. Here it doesn't take into account, let's say, if the lessor is a big owner, is a multinational, is a fund of reversal or is simply a private individual who has a real estate that he/she places on the land and that from this real estate does not extrude an income that serves him/her to meet his/her daily, family, business needs or the type that follows. We consider that from this point of view the tenants are being overly harmed. Our position, therefore, as I can already see from the first moment, is not an enthusiastic position with this decree, but it is true that we consider that, at this point in time, the most reasonable or the most up-to-date in the current situation is to abstain in this vote. It is true that the decree has, to our mind, many defects; many defects that could even bring us, in a less dramatic situation, in a conjuncture, let us say, with more time and with less demand of immediate decision-making, to raise a vote against us. Because we really consider that in Catalonia and the conjunct of Spain, but especially in Catalonia, an ideological climate has been created of sensitizing the owners, the owners in general; in fact, the private property. There are parliamentary groups in this Parliament of which you are members of the legislature, if not, who directly claim the abolition of private property. And I, from this farotry, our group precisely wants to make a defense of private property as a fundamental element of freedom, as a fundamental element of a liberal society, of market, a free society that precisely wants to give the city the opportunity to develop with all its possibilities without having to say to it the play of a state in a broad sense– not Spanish State, Mrs. Capella, but being in a broad sense, also Generality, that it is also in Catalonia –, not having the pressure of a state that somehow exerts an excessive restriction of individual freedoms. And, in this case, we consider that this decree is effectively excessively restricted from individual freedoms; it is conveying a problem that the Generality should have assumed. The Generality, in order to assume the problem of the economic consequences of its own decisions, of what it did with the closure of bars and restaurants, for example, with the hospitality sector, has caused a huge damage to a good part of our business structure, and of our economic fabric, and of our autonomies and workers, and this, in accounts of anticipation, what it has done in the end is to take the decision first, not to have the skeins covered from the economic point of view to make this decision, and then, when it has found itself with a huge gap, to move the responsibility to resolve this issue to the individual who have these contractual relations of logue. And that's why it seems to us that, let's say, the lack of forecast that the Government of the Generality has had on this issue is the motiu, the first motor and mobile of this decision, once more, improvised. We also believe that what the government should have done is, in terms of imposing taxes, as it did with the assumptions that it approved in the midst of the pandemic and the first wave of the coronavirus crisis, with its assumptions..., even though we warned them, they pushed taxes. In tax pushing accounts, what we ask from our group is why they don't exactly tax the working and middle classes of our community, which is what we should do. Some will disappear and even seem to reschedule the speech of the tax deficit, etc. No, no, it's not a question of fiscal deficit, it's a question of prioritizing the generality's public spending. The Generalitat manages an immense premise and what we cannot hear from our group is that it is not for money to be spent on what really matters and that in accounts to be spent on what really is important it is for questions that seem superfluous to us. There are ways of making decisions that do not harm a part of the citizenry, in this case the collection of tenants, many of them, insist, particular ones that depend on these entrances in a vital way, in a functional way, between other lower taxes and not pushing them, for example; do not take into account the reduction, for example, of the tax of legal acts documented by you..., for public writings; for example, of novelty, renegotiation or extra-judicial agreements that you might have contemplated and that you have at the moment contemplated. There are other ways, such as what has been done in France, that it is to make a moratorium or a tax credit for the lessor, precisely because it does not have to deal with the taxes that must be paid, now, with this crisis so dramatic and so galloping that we find ourselves in, and what is precisely done is to allude to the pressure on the city council and not to carry out as always the consequences of the Government's lack of forecasting in the same way. From this point of view, we consider that this decree is a zero-sum game and that what it does is basically to convey to the individual a responsibility that should be borne precisely by the Government; that, by the way, it says that it is a decree of urgent measures to support economic activity, and of measures in this decree does not exist. Basically, it's a way to translate this responsibility to the individual. He gave one of the great Spanish liberals contemporary, Pedro Schwartz: "Freedom is a broad philosophy that covers our entire life. Liberals are not – we are not – supporters of amiguetes capitalism or wild capitalism, but neither of the proliferation of laws and regulations, nor of a state – or of a Generalitat – "wild." And that – that – is the one that is, therefore, in the different official newsletters and it is they who misrule important sectors of the economy. In this case, then, the finances... – com vossès amb les finances publiques –, "and that is why we must maintain the backbone of the market which is a channel through which the wishes of the individual run. That is why liberalism has become indispensable and that is our glory and our task. Thank you, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.205.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, the Covid-19 pandemic means, as we all know, an unprecedented health crisis, with hundreds of thousands of infected and thousands of deaths. The fight against the virus has involved and involves the adoption of some measures to contain the spread of this virus that are very hard, and especially for some economic sectors. We have very much in mind the last measures decreed for the Government of the Generality and the sectors that have been affected, such as sports centres, cultural centres, large areas not intended for food, but they have also been affected by local restoration, aesthetics, fires, night octopus; that is, many sectors that have been affected. Clearly, in the fight against the virus, measures must be taken to stop and flatten the pandemic's raven, but sometimes the sectors that suffer the most cannot be left unprotected. They help these sectors and they also help to alleviate the impact they have on small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs and traders. With regard to the aid that the Government has allocated to the affected, we clearly understand them to be insufficient. A first line of 40_millions, which was exhausted in a three and nothing, and the announcement of a second line of 50_millions, that we will see for which it will donate. As far as measures are concerned, they are, at least, questionable and clearly better. And in this sense today they are bringing us to the validation of the Law on Urgent Measures to Support Economic Activity Developed in Leased Business Locations; a decree that has been discussed a lot, was told the decree of the Rebus cell. In fact, the same decree refers to this doctrine to say that it inspires itself to want to be an expedient tool. But can we really say that this decree agrees with this clause invoked by the jurisprudence? We don't think so, especially in some of your quarters, and I'll talk to you about it now. It is stated in this decree that if, as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the competent authority decrees measures to suspend the development of the activity or to restrict the material profit of immovable property leased for the realization of industrial and commercial activities, the lease share may require the lessor to make a reasonable and equitable modification of the terms of the contract, with the aim of restoring the balance of the benefits in accordance with the requirements of good faith and of the honorability of the tracts. So far, what sets the decree for us might seem reasonable. It is a general principle to seek agreement between the parties to modify contractual conditions. In fact, the Government of Spain established a similar way, through the Royal Decree of 15/2020, but in that case, establishing certain conditions to be fulfilled by tenants, peppers and autonomes, which is not contemplated here. We also know that, before the entry into force of this decree, many tenants and tenants had already reached agreements to adapt the conditions of their contracts to the new reality of the pandemic. But the decree follows and provides for rules that, in the event of a non-agreement, should be applied while the suspension or restriction of activity measures last. In case of suspension and development of the activity, the yield and other quantities in the rent share must be reduced by 50_per_cent. If the material profit of the immovable is partial, the income must be reduced by half the loss of the profit of the immovable, measured objectively for the reduction of the increase or of the hours or for other limitations imposed by the norm. That in this type of establishment, the sale of endurable products and the sending of products to home may or may not be difficult to complete does not exempt them because they can be applied to the previous standards. In our view, to say that these standards will apply in breach of agreement and negotiation has nothing to do with the will of a real negotiation, because in the background, in case you do not agree, it will come to the judicial way, which is already open, precisely, for the invocation of the rebus sic stantibus clause. Therefore, that objective which is intended to be achieved with the decree to dismiss these issues will not be achieved, and it may be that even the whole appeal to the courts will increase. On the other hand, the rules which are related and which must be applied if there is no agreement, and which, therefore, will also have to take into account the judgment if it is before an assumption of this nature, do not take into account all the circumstances which could be valued at the time of applying the reductions. The provision has elements of expansion, of timetables, but does not take into account other circumstances that can be taken into account before a court, such as seasonal negotiations or located in tourist areas. Apart from the fact that we believe that you deserve the exception from the decree that speaks of the option of the tenant to give up the contract without penalty, when the suspension measures of the activity are for longer than three months, in the course of a year to count from the entry into force of this norm. The approval of this provision is intended to justify the application of the Rebus clause, but this doctrine does not imply nor can it imply the completion of the lease by the mere will of one of the parties. The rebus sic stantibus clause involves the adaptation of the contract at the instància of one of the parts in order to find a solution to the imbalance of the services between the parts. This is what the so-called rebus clause can do if it is used by the court, but never the justification for the termination of the contract unilaterally, even more if it is done for a purely temporary reason. This includes the imposition of a mechanism for the termination of a contract on the basis of the intention of one of the parties, in the form of expropriation of rights, without compensation for the sole will of one of the parties to the contract, to which it is empowered to do so. We would also like to reflect on the transitional provision, which provides for the possibility for the tenant party to exercise the powers provided for in this Decree independently of the agreements reached before the entry into force. This forecast generates a lot of doubts about how the backactivity is configured. We must remember that a rule cannot be retroactive in such a way that it involves a restriction of individual rights, and in this case a retroaction is established which, moreover, is imposed on the willingness of the parties expressed in an agreement prior to its entry into force. Look, we don't like this decree. We have more than reasonable doubts to think that it will generate legal uncertainty at times when there should be certainty. On the other hand, it has the effect that you have returned to centrifuging the problems. Faced with the need to help the sectors most affected by the tank, you choose to transfer some of the problems to the local tenants. They do so without taking into account the characteristics of tenants or tenants, which can be far more powerful than the same tenants. Without taking into account, for example, what can happen to taxes that engrave these loggers or the fact that lessors are to reduce 50_percent of the quantities in question even though they have to pay 100_percent of the cost of these, for example, in the case of security or anti-Covid measures, for example, of commercial centres. And without taking into account that the guarantees to which they refer because the lessor can escape from the amounts not paid in many cases are forfeited for the financing, and therefore they cannot be used. They also wanted to study other options, as they did in other countries. Even in other autonomous communities that know they are studying them, where the cost of contractual obligations is allocated to third parties between the renter, the renter and the Administration. They've pulled for the right as they often do too much lately. All these considerations that may seem, therefore, extremely legal, very legal, that may be outside this Parliament, or even outside the most legal spheres of society, cannot be understood, we believe that in this Parliament, in this Chamber, we must be able to say and we must be able to value them. Almenys our group does it. That said, we are aware of the problem that exists. We are aware that it is necessary to give a special outing to small traders. And that is why our group will not object to its validation, to the validation of this decree, but we cannot vote for it, because the shortcomings that we see are too great to be able to give it recollection. Neither would we ask for its processing as a bill of law, even though we have valued it, because it is a measure narrowed in time and because the legislature was over, and therefore, it would not give time to do the processing. That's right, we would ask them, in order to finish, that everything we need to understand, sometimes, to make decisions quickly, urgently to legislate and to create standards quickly, is done with rigour and is done in the most consensual way possible, because only things like today that lead us to approval can happen, can we have decrees like today that lead us to approval that really leave much to desire, even from our point of view..., from a legal point of view, and that we believe that they will carry more insecurity than not certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya In Comú Puem, has the words of the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.207.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, counsel, thank you very much for being here. We are beginning to announce that we will support this decree, and now we are discussing the things that we agree with and do not just agree with this decree, but we want to start announcing our support because we understand that it is a measure that responds to the urgency of the situation we are living in, and that it is a courageous measure, not without contradictions, but it is also a courageous measure, dedicated to intervening now and here, that it is when we have the problem, not the year that it is in a civil code reform, or two years ago with a diagnosis of how the Covid has affected the property structure of our country, but now and here. Now and here we have a problem, which is that there are economic sectors, such as restoration, to which we give them: you have to close for reasons of health care, of the health emergency that we live in our country. And this Mr. Lock, and when he closes the blind, he doesn't lock to zero because maybe he's paying a ten-thousand-euro logger a month. And there have been measures aimed at reducing costs, for example, ERTOs. The ERTOs are part of a logic. Given this health situation, we have to change the normal working conditions in this country and that there are workers who do not want to work and who are socially dependent on their wages, or on their wages. And it's exporting this logic in other structural costs that businesses have. Because if someone has a bar and closes the blind, every month they lose five thousand euros of logger, this person who has the head is a date of closure. A date of economic failure. « As I can't re-open in one_month or as in one_month I can't recover my activity to the cent_per_cent, in one_month I have to close. And that's a problem for the guy who pays for the logger, but it's also a problem for the guy who gets the logger. Sometimes diem, agree a reduction, as proposed here 50_per_cent in the payment of the logger, generates insecurity in who perceives it. You're obvious. But going to a situation of default also generates insecurity, and we believe that it is obvious that public administrations are also to intervene in situations of extreme need and uncertainty as we are living. What is proposed? It is proposed to enable a clause, which is this famous sic stantibus rebus clause, which applies when unforeseen circumstances occur, survives, and which is also not the responsibility of whom the loguer pays, nor on the other hand. It is not a matter of responsibility, of apportioning blame, but of sharing responsibilities in another sense, in the sense that if we are living in a difficult situation economically, obviously we all have the responsibility to pull forward protection to what is of value in our country, that is the economic fabric and production and the places of work in our country, and that this will require efforts from all, from public administrations, from citizens who have a business, from citizens wage earners who are losing 30_percent of their income while in a ERTO, etc. And therefore, responsibility and effort must also be shared in a situation like this. And let's say it's an extraordinary situation because there's certainly a few situations where the rebus cell is stuck better than in this one. That is to say, if in any situation it were to be thought that this felt legal to introduce it into the Civil Code, it is precisely in a health pandemic. Because we're not talking about someone opening a deal and making it worse than the forecast. This is an inherent problem in opening a business. What we are talking about is that there are extraordinary conditions that alter the situation in which the contract was signed, which is that a person cannot open his or her business because we are in a situation of health emergency. And obviously, it's reason enough to think that the contract is renegotiated and that the obligations of both parties are renegotiated. So, we think there's an element planning on this debate and it's about the polarization of opinions on this debate. It is obvious that who earns an income is not automatically converted into a bad person. That's to say, there are a lot of people who are collecting returns from a bar lodger, basically because he was once the owner of the bar, and today he's supplementing retirement with the bar lodger's fee, for example, and that he's accessed this property from work, and that's not why it's worse or better than none of us and none of us have a property. It's not a matter of caricatures. It is also obvious that sometimes they give situations that are profoundly unfair and, moreover, profoundly harmful to our economy, as they are now given in many halls of concerts in Barcelona, where they plan to want to buy them at low prices, because there are also people who come out winning in situations like these and we also need to be able to intervene there, but it is not the joint. I think it's hard to legislate from a cartoon, and we have to legislate assuming it's a contradictory law that harms people who don't blame it, obviously. We're not saying that whoever gets a lawyer is to blame for what's going on. What we are saying is that if we look at how to keep the fabric of production and the places of work in our country, from here we must be able to share costs: between the public administrations that must be able to give direct aid so that the fabric of production and the places of work in our country prevail, but also between the private sectors that participate in the economic and productive system of our country, and among those that perceive returns. Because if we stay in the center of what we have to preserve in our country, we already know the country we will have, a country where there will be a lot of massive peppers in a few months and a country where there will be massive denunciations in a few weeks, because people don't have the capacity to stay alive and because this situation is going on a lot over time. And, therefore, it is necessary to intervene to protect those rights that are fundamental in our country, such as the right to work, such as the right to housing. And in this line we share the intervention that comes to us. And now let's go to those things that we just didn't see clearly about this form of intervention. There is no economic dimension to it. A saying: "If you have to close your bar, you can negotiate with your lodger a drop in the logger that, if you have not agreed, will be 50_per_cent. And if this person has losses of 80 or 90 per cent? , no longer fits the clause, when it would be easy to include – we understand, at least – a report on the normal economic activity of that establishment in previous years, and what I say is that my lost ones are 60_per_cent, or 70_per_cent. And it's about these conditions that we have to negotiate about altering contractual conditions and logger payments. And we don't think that including this dimension will end up producing things like it's easy to make a 50_per_cent reduction in the logger, because they're legally obliged to negotiate it, but for those establishments that have lost 80 and 90_per_cent, that's also insufficient to close their business. And the legal logic on which a 80_per_cent drop in the logger would be defendable is the same as that of 50_per_cent. What is arbitrary is to establish which is the maximum drop-down top, because the losses can be up to 100_per_cent when one is locked. The second question, which seems very worrying to me. What will happen when this activity is reopened? You will be forced to pay the 100_per_cent of the logger. Since it is not based on the economic losses derived from the pandemic but strictly on the time it has had to be closed, this person can open up to 20_percent of his activity, because there is no tourism, because there has not been economic activity, etc. And what's going to be provocative is that when they recommence themselves to push the loguers and we have serious business difficulties in maintaining economic activity during the re-opening. Third consideration. What about those activities that are not directly closed by decree but are linked to economic sectors that are closed? For example, I, if I have a bar, can negotiate a 50_per_cent rebate, but if I have a beaker's company I can't do it, even though I don't have a business, because the sectors of which I'm a supplier are closed. I think it is obvious that, if we set this position in economic terms, there are also economic sectors affected by Covid-19, and it is not giving itself legal employment. And two last questions. The first is that it is obvious that this clause, the sic stantibus rebus, had been inserted into the Civil Code of Catalonia – and there was also discussion in the Congress of Deputies, and, in theory... there was no July and they were placed. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in three months to reform the Civil Code – to include it because it has legal certainty in a time that will remain uncertain, we don't know how much longer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.208.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.209.0	And the last one – and with that I'm done, Mr. President. It is necessary to strengthen the mediation services, because if we do this, it is precisely to open channels of mediation and not to open channels of judicial litigation. And, therefore, we make an effort from Justice to open channels of mediation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.210.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.211.0	...to facilitate this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.212.0	On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.213.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors... Well, we respect this decree we have to say that it shows us the opportunity we have to be able to have a proper civil right, and therefore the possibility that it is possible to take measures of shock with the objective of rebalancing the negative consequences that result from the restrictive measures taken as a result of the health emergency situation that we are living in. And, therefore, with the modification of the Civil Code we have a lot of play to make certain measurements. Now, we understand that this decree is completely inadequate. Firstly, because it is designed to ‘suspension the development of the activity or restriction of the material profit of immovable leased goods,' it is to say, for the suspension of the activity, and therefore only for the situations of closure when there is an activity that cannot be developed. And so, what, for example, happens with a travel agency or what happens with a Rambla souvenir shop? Or, as the deputy of Catalonia in Comú Puedo said, what happens to a beaker distribution company, that most of its customers to whom these beakers come have the activity suspended? For another band, also in this sense we see that it is about a 50_per_cent, a 50_per_cent, why? Why don't we talk about the 75_per_cent that was asked, for example, by the Restoration Gremi? Now let's imagine someone going to a lawyer's office and the lawyer wants to negotiate that he will be paid 20_per_cent of the logger. Ostres, therefore, with this decree the truth that you have made it a difficult little thing for those lawyers who negotiate, because you have already set the percentage. On the other hand, she was also talking about the regulation of the rebus sic stantibus cell. We understand that this clause could be perfectly regulated, right? It talks about the rebalancing of contractual obligations when there is a change in circumstances of which there was at the time the contract was perfected, right? And, therefore, the modification of Article 611.1 of the Civil Code of Catalonia and, therefore, the regulation of this clause, which mediates the modification of this article, and in the words proposed to us by Professor Javier Orduña, we understand that it is interesting. It seems interesting to us. And, therefore, we understand that we should be able to talk about this issue and process this project by law project or, as a minimum, maintain a meeting in order to be able to talk about it. For another band, we understand that there are shortcomings in this law, too, don't we? The deputy of Catalonia in Comú Pode was also commenting on this. It does not set up any type of economic parameter. For example, an economic expert can believe in a court perfectly that there has been a fall in respect to the previous exercise of a 50_per_cent of the benefits, right? And that there's a check on the tickets and the benefits. Nor is she accompanied by a moratorium on the payment of taxes, on the moratorium on the terrace tax, which we might also be able to talk to other administrations. And I think it's very generic, regulation, and it'll bring us a lot of interpretation problems. What about the mortgages? What about the light, water and gas sub-administrations? And what, for example, happens with the suspension of contracts that have been awarded to companies to provide public services? When a contract is suspected from a company that is providing a public service, the Administration automatically has the obligation to pay the loggers, the maintenance of the machinery and the workers. What will happen if these companies do not ask for a reasonable request to the lessor to reduce the 50_per_cent reduction of this import of payment of the logger quota? That the Administration will assume the cent_per_cent of this logger? That is to say, there are many things that will surely have to be done and, therefore, we will ask for their processing for your bill.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, is the goddess of Solomon, king of Israel, who had three virtues: wisdom, prudence and justice. And then there's the example that he's used to posing is from the episode of the unlived, the motherhood that two seas are fighting for. Before the dilemma, Salomo decided to ask for a spasm, divide the child into two. One of the seas, one of the presumed seas, says: "Yes, yes, it is just dividing the child into two. But the other says, "No, give it to the other sea. And Solomon said, "Give the child to this sea, for it is the true sea. And that's why it's said to be fair. And man can think that this decree is a salomonic decree, that before a certain situation is made a salomonic decision. The government decides that there are some activities that are tanking, others that restrict its activity, and this is a matter that I think is important to make clear: it is a law that affects all activities that have restrictions, not just bars, restaurants or aesthetic centres; and also those establishments that, for example, have reduced their outflow. And it is assumed that in order to have reduced its outflow this also implies a reduction in the same proportion of the entrances of that establishment, right? And the decision is that. "Pactin" is smoke. Because then there's the decision that it's 50_per_cent. And, therefore, the trend will not be that there are pacts; it is more, the trend that there are pacts has existed since March, when there was no salomonic decision, to say: "No, 50_per_cent. And now the pacts will break, and in any case, what they will do will tend to this 50_per_cent. We can share the main premise that inspires this decree, which is that in the face of a serious situation for certain establishments, we try to find measures that minimise the effects of these measures. But the logic is that if the measures are taken by the Government, the Government must also take steps to try to compensate for these effects that are occurring on the activities. And here's where it seems to me to weaken the government's performance. I mean, I make the decision, but then I pay some more, and in this case it affects the owners. Sharing charges, yes, we agree, but not only between privates, the Administration also has to assume a share of the charges. The division is not fair, the division drawing the decree is not fair, because not all activities are homogeneous. He has been exposed by the spokespersons who have preceded me peculiarities and circumstances that may lead them to say: "It is not just a 50_per_cent breakdown. But there can be many more. Is that to say, and those who exercise their activity in an establishment that is their property? This one doesn't have a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a I don't want to give him any ideas now that they're also forcing banks to reduce mortgages to 50 percent, because you're covered, and you're giving many circumstances. We understand that it is, as I said, an intrusion into private negotiations, which has already been completed, with enough success. Certainly not always, but the exception does not justify a measure of these characteristics. The economic activities tend to be helped by the administrations. The tenants will not have any, no, no, they will continue to pay the IBI religiously, and will continue to pay, for example, mortgages, if they hold them or the bonds they may have. The measures... when they take action, because the administrations... this is another peculiar case, isn't it? That the administrations place the bonds at the service of the activities, you, with another decree law, limit. And more so, in this saying: "If you have to charge guarantees payments, you do, but not all, to the legal bonds that Incasòl has, no, these are not touched. Now, that's touching the others, the ones that are private. Counselor, miri, we are convinced that this government is neither fair nor wise nor prudent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.216.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.217.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, in my intervention we will go further down to earth and make no Biblical references. Today we are addressing a government decree that takes urgent measures to support the economic activity that is being developed at leased trading venues. I want to reschedule the trading venues, because I believe that some of the interventions that preceded me were a little out of date in this sense. I believe that the government governs, and it is the obligation of governments to regulate and intervene in situations that require it as they do today. I believe that we should take measures and take urgent measures to deal with the situations in which we find ourselves. In this case, as in other cases, it is logical that pressure from different collections, lobbyists is produced, and therefore some of the groups can come to defend, as we have heard, therefore, take theoretical measures or pose side by side or defend forbearance. And in this case I think it's appropriate to remember what William Shakespeare said: that those who don't know how to rule, that they obey. So, in this case, we have a council with the will to govern and with the will to adopt measures that serve to resolve concrete situations on demand, precisely, of the economic sectors of our country, which is the situation in which we find ourselves. It has been asked that these measures be repealed for others, as may be a reduction in taxation. And I'm surprised, because it was precisely yesterday that an announcement was made that the corresponding tram would be reduced in this case, the Catalan government, of the IRPF. So we are not talking about alternative measures, we are talking about cumulative measures. What we approve today or what we validate today is in addition to what you have, it has to do with the tax on the income of physical persons. The will of the decree that is subject to validation for this Parliament is to stop, as I said, the knowledge that in the area of economic activities that are developing in the trading venue generates the Covid pandemic and the restrictive measures to the activity, and they are adopted to improve the incidence and the ability of the virus to spread. We are talking about a situation that involves a total loss of income from economic activities, which involves or can lead to, and I believe that we are all aware of, the loss of jobs, the loss of livelihood means in a large number of people and families, in particular the autonomies, and the end loss of our own activities and the impact this situation has on the socio-economic level. The other day we were talking about the APEU bill, and we had the opportunity to remember a news that was published in press, in El País newspaper. He did not speak of Catalonia, he spoke of Madrid and he spoke of the trades of the Gran Via. He said that since the beginning of the pandemic 35 per cent of the trades that have public access to the Gran Via de Madrid have been closed. I believe that anyone who passes by our people, by our cities, will be able to see the impact of the situation on our commercial establishments. And they assist us in this case, in accordance with Article 45, 121, 155 of the Statute, and specifically with regard to what corresponds to the exclusive competence in the civil sphere, in this case, for Article 129. And beyond what is said – and I believe that Ciutadans's spokesman has followed – this same competence was recognized by the same Constitutional Court recently, at the time of addressing, therefore, the backlog of constitutional remedies that had been filed against the release of the Civil Code that was approved by this House. And for us, therefore, competition is indisputable. The measures that are subject to validation, as I said before, have to do with commercial establishments, so, also with souvenir shops, with restoration establishments, but also cultural ones, where there are developing teaching, sports, recreational and service activities, like now also travel agencies, which you have also listened to, aesthetics and hospitality. Therefore, a wide range of activities that are all those with general character are due to term in establishments that logically end up for their opening and attention to the public. The object of the measure – and it is said to go to the statement of reasons, in this case, of the decree – is to act against an excessive and surmounting burden of contractual services. And that's not new in our right. There are two figures already, long tradition in our right, such as rescission for injury and unfair advantage, which precisely set themselves up to correct the imbalances that occur after a legal negotiation between some parties. We are talking about a contractual framework that has been altered and not by the will of the parties, but by external circumstances but that has an obvious influence on the performance and on... not just on the balance, but on the effective ability to complete the performance. And, therefore, the logic is that we intervene. What we seek is to establish a distributed criterion of the negative consequences of prohibitions, suspensions and restrictions imposed on the spread of the pandemic and the principle of solidarity, which translates into the equal and fair distribution of the negative consequences socializing the risk, preventing it from falling on one of the contracting parties alone. And reasoning, from our point of view, is quite logical. While this situation is given, while the lease does not end this activity, in the current situation the same owner of the premises could develop an activity? No, no, Could there be a third one that could last until the end of the activity? No, no, So, would there be a right to the perception of an income respect this establishment? There wouldn't be. Therefore, from our point of view, this is the logic of the principle that leads to this solidarity and equal distribution between both parts of the contract. There's been talk of the pact I'm serving, and it's obvious that our tradition, which ends in the right of Rome, obviously contemplates it. And the maximum legal certainty, logically, takes hold of this free agreement between the wills, between the shares. But it is also true, as has been said, that there is this squatting cell, which is precisely foreseen for contingencies and circumstances as we now find ourselves. Certainly, the state of alarm has been declared, it has been extended several times, we find ourselves in a context that, unfortunately, must limit activities, has limited mobility. Therefore, it has an impact on the rights of all citizens and this had not happened in forty years. And in the same way that the adoption of this exceptional measure of the state of alarm has entailed an exceptional involvement in the rights of all citizens, it is also logical that measures that, depending on this previous one, arrange or aim to arrange the situations or relations between private and not in a capricious way. Two intentions I understand that anyone will be able to hear: from a general point of view, for the preservation of the commercial fabric and the occupation that they feel, and certainly, as the right to perceive the yields on the right to the maintenance of the activity prevails, as has been said, we will find ourselves with a future scene of the absence of peppers; in case the jutjats can digest it – which we will also talk about –, therefore of an elevated number of releases of commercial establishments. And this one doesn't think he's a hopeful future for a country, does he? The future hope for a country is a scene of economic recovery in which it is possible to generate a full occupation, because in the end we have not loaded ourselves... we have not converted into a solar in our product fabric and neither the commercial fabric. And there is another aspect, which logically from the Council of Justice I understand deserves special attention, which is the reduction or elimination of litigation. Before he said, "Oh, we have to approach the way of mediation. I'm sorry, but I think, of course, I've lost a little bit of the notion of time later, but I don't think it's six months ago that we've already provided some mediation measures, in this case in the family domain, that if you've been willing to the Department of Justice, you probably would have been much more ambitious to be able to extend them in general to all areas, and specifically to all those who have to see economic activity, where exactly there is the most need. Of course, they say to us: "It is that they are linear criteria... and objective, and they do not have to deal with the speciality of each business, they are not dimensioned with the real impact on the activity, because it can be of an 80. So most likely, but the government's obligation is to generate standards that are effective. What we cannot do is pretend that there is no dispute and incorporate a subjective element, such as a history of the economic results of an activity – which is always good for discussion – but first on what criteria to settle, and then on the spot on the sting that many times we know exists, and more in the field of inn – I know this because I am a member of a municipality where there is a lot of economic activity linked to this sector. Therefore, incorporating subjective elements of judgment makes it very difficult and does not sunny one of its main objectives, as I said, that it is to reduce or eliminate litigation. We understand that it is a good measure, that it is adopted precisely in the way it is adopted for the exceptionality of the moment and, therefore, we also understand positive, reasonable and logical that it is provided for this two-year term to draw up a draft law that allows us to address with calmness which is to be the definition behind the positivity of this sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic-sic. We understand that we find ourselves in a context in which the people ask for answers, not only to the government but to all who have political responsibilities. And with this decree, as we have said, it involves new legal security and guarantees the protection and survival of the country's economic fabric, and avoids, as we have said, conflict and the collapse of the judicial system. Therefore, from our point of view, we only have to thank in this case the Government, and the Council of Justice in extension, that has made the promotion of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs.Glòria Freixa has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.219.0	Well, good afternoon, president, councillor, deputies, deputies. We have already mentioned this: with the reason of the current health crisis that we are patenting, we have had to take various measures in the field of public health because it can contain this outbreak and this has affected the activity of various sectors of the population. We are very aware of people's efforts and patience and that it will only be easier if we have a strong administration that helps them to overcome these moments. Today we especially want to talk about all the trades, the small businesses, that are the pal to fight of our society. We have cities full of life because this is our model. The barrel store. The life of barri. And because our business structure is made up of more than 90_per_cent for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a country that's soft, it's a country that works, it's a country that produces. And now we're having a hard time. Every botiga that locks, every company that has to place its workers in ERTO is a arrow that goes directly to the color of our society. And we can't look at any other band, because even though we're lucky enough to work in this room, we have couples, we have kids, we have friends, and these hard times don't just comment on them, but we're living them. And that is why today we are also asking for the validation of this decree already in force, so as to relieve the burdens that certain commercial sectors are bearing, including cultural activities, teachers, sports, recreation, and all the other services that have been affected, such as now aesthetics, hospitality and restoration. With this decree it is intended to give air to the whole sector and establish, for all those activities that have remained suspended with the motivation of the current health crisis, that it is possible to relieve a little this charge. Specifically – some of the members have already explained this – it is established that the price of the contract can be negotiated with the owner. And in that case, rules are laid down. There are already many cases where both parties agree, but for all those who do not agree, it has been considered necessary to regulate and automatically lower the deadline to 50_per_cent and, in those cases where the situation is unsustainable, to allow a termination of this contract without penalty. The measures will be implemented during the prohibitions or restrictions dictated by the competent authority, but from Juntes to Catalunya we want to show our commitment at these times to protect all these sectors. Avoid the disappearance of economic activities that are already the livelihood of a large number of people and families, such as self-employed workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. The adoption of these standards is essential to ensure the protection and survival of our country's economic fabric. As Councillor Tremosa said at the last Ple: "We are at the side of those who work to earn their lives. But we know that with these measures there is not enough. The situation is difficult and the crisis is long, and we are also very aware of the recovery capacity of this country, because it is very likely that if this crisis is resolved quickly, the country will soon return to where it was. Let's remember that Catalonia ended 2009 with a year of remembering growth. But we're not fooling each other. If our merchant, our entrepreneurs and local workers don't have any help, many will have stayed on the road. And one thing is that with this decree there's a thing to hold on to, and the other is that we're not still aware of our responsibilities. That's why the government has also given all kinds of direct help to peppers, autonomies, micro-entrepreneurs working in the sectors of restoration, aesthetics and beauty. Credit lines for the catering sector, aid for the consortia of trade and fashion, aid for the tourism sector, fire, pimec, trade. We haven't stopped scratching all the funding we have. And in this I think there will be unanimity of all this chamber: all this also goes with economic resources. I do not find it difficult to recognise that I would prefer to have – and certainly my parliamentary group – economic resources in order to deal with this situation without regulating the loguers, because it is not a place where we find ourselves as comfortable as we have gone, but at this point it is the measure that can best help this whole sector in this suffering. The assumption of the Government of Catalonia is 27.512_million euros. With this assumption we have to manage day by day, the needs of all the citizens and, more importantly, this pandemic. But it's that with these 27,500_million euros we can't talk about a presupposition precisely of a great state. Let's remember that Espanya has almost 400.000_million euros of pressupost. I'm not going into finance. I know that this problem is not for many of you in Catalonia, I know that this problem is of an imaginary country, but look, I remember them every day. The money we claim for Catalonia comes from the efforts of Catalan workers, locals and entrepreneurs who later do not see their needs met at the level we would like to be able to do so because the State prevents them from doing so. And on the other hand, when we ask for it, some of you take it as a whim and manipulate our speech trying to trick the city into saying, "They'll be back with the old song. But it's these cities you're supposed to be old for. Today, the MP of the PSC three pit that was donated to manage the crisis about 3,500_million euros. How can they explain this to the rest of Catalan citizens when they owe approximately 11,000_million euros only in financing of Mossos, with financing on dependence? Do you know how many things we could have bought in this pandemic? How many social workers could we have given? We are told that we are responsible for the residences, but in change, they deny us the financing in dependence – because we remember that we owe more than 3,000_million euros in the financing of dependence. How can they deny Catalonia EUR 430 million of VAT that all Catalans have already paid? Because he's already paid for it. I repeat: these money only comes from the effort of every working day of this country's workers. But everyone, huh? Not just the independenceists. Ciutadans voters, PSC voters, PP voters, municipal voters. So, I think we should all go to one with this. It costs me a lot to hear this position that you have in front of our cries. They know and are aware of Catalonia's financial reality and that we need better funding. I think they'd be more likely to go to bed a little more than all Catalans need. I think they'd get better results in their own choices. We have said this many times and we were reminded very well of our Member – Teresa Pallarès, whom I send from here a strong hug and which I hope very soon will come back to be among us – when she defended the assumptions in Parliament. We want an independent state so we can dispose of all our resources and put all these resources and all the talent that this country has in serving people. Here's the key to everything. And for the time being, the government has made this decree, this decree to relieve this suffering at these times of so many small businesses and businesses that are, as we say, the backbone of this country. But they know it's not enough. And they know that you – and all opposition – are a key piece because the citizens of Catalonia have what they deserve. It should be a shared struggle for all Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on the validation of this decree will be done at the end of this late, once the fifth point of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Decree-Law 35/2020, of 20 October, amending Decree-Law 19/2020, of 19 May, and Decree-Law 29/2020, of 28 July, concerning the adoption of social and health measures to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19]] [[203-00060/12]] We now turn to item 4 of the agenda, which is the debate on the validation of Decree-Law 35/2020 of 20 October, the amendment of Decree-Law 19/2020 of 19 May and Decree-Law 29/2020 of 28 July in the area of social and health measures to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by Covid-19. According to Article 158.2 of the Rules, the first place will be the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families to expose the reasons for which this decree is promulgated. Therefore, the word has the advisor Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.221.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, today, to the Faristol, what I come to do is to explain them... [[pause]] the modification, a technical modification that is made of the decree that we have already validated a few weeks ago, the 29/2020, and that allows us to adapt and adapt even more before a reality, that what is needed is the maximum flexibility at the time of giving answer. Decree 29, what was it? Decree 29, basically, was the main instrument agreed with the finance guarantee sector and payment mechanisms, of everything that represents the costs that are transferred to the residences for the implementation of contingency plans. A decree and contingency plan that today, at the beginning of November, continues to feel the only one that has been done throughout the State, working with the sector, that allows us, in this sense, to face better conditions that we are already living on. At that moment, if they remember, when I introduced them to this decree, I put them in a position that it was a way to be better prepared for when you arrived a second time. Now that we're on this second one, it still has more importance and I think it shows the line we're trying to work on, what we're working on, that it's focusing on how to donate the most important tools before a pandemic that has a very specific impact on the residential environment. I would also like to remind you that, in this sense, the contingency plan included the residences of persons with disabilities and with support for persons with social problems arising from mental illness, day centres, day centres of occupational therapy, centres of special care for persons with disabilities, day care, day centres of work, the SIO for persons with disabilities who set up the whole catal system of social services, part of the catal system of social services. In this sense, what we're presenting today is a modification, it's a technical modification, basically around an object. As you know, for the same LAPAD regulatory framework, the relationship of the Administration around the residential fabric has two lives: one, the direct relationship of the Administration with the residences, the other is the relationship of the Administration with the resident persons. So, what used to happen is that an environment that is key, because the layout is global, that's fair around this support, might not have all the legal certainty that it implies, and that's the relationship around those areas that is the Administration with the resident person, that's the enjoyment of the performance. Basically we are talking about linked economic benefits, although after these benefits they have a role around the financing of the residential square, which is true is that it is not like a concertation, where there is a two-way relationship between the public administration and the management residence, it is from the title that it is, but in this case we are talking about a relationship between the administration and the person. In this sense, what we work on in this decree are these modifications to ensure legal certainty, to be able to implement the contingency plan throughout the universe; not only in the universe of concerted places, which allows us, in this sense, the whole universe linked to ENPs, to related economic services, to collaborators, is taken into account at the time of being able to manage the contingency plan correctly. And that also allows me to reflect. Surely, one of the aspects that we all share and that has passed to all administrations is that before a pandemic, a situation of emergency, such an emergency, the mechanisms of administration are sometimes not quick enough. It is in this sense that we continue to work and that if we consider that there is no legal certainty at the time of being able to develop it, then we present the modification; and a technical modification, very concrete, that allows us to address these elements. It's one of the key elements and it's also one of the key elements that will even form part of all the elements of the European Foundation that come with EU Next Generation, because one of the elements is administrative simplification. And in this sense, we need now, that we are in a situation of pandemic, to be able to assure it with the minimum bureaucracy and with the maximum possible facilities, because in this way we also accompany the fabric of the sector and make sure that there are no problems linked. It is in this sense, to guarantee security, protection and prevention of the salvation of people who are in the residential environment, which has the origin of the contingency plan. And it is in this sense that it gives legal certainty to apply compensation payments and incentives to residential and day social services in extraordinary concepts, such as those of linked economic places, such as those of free provision that establishes the contingency plan for empty places corresponding to co-workers' places in the contingency plan, which makes us carry this decree of urgent measures. Basically this is the concrete area of which I put them, some very concrete elements that we have been able to explain to the parliamentary groups and which will allow us to be more agile in respect. I'm also taking advantage of the situation, because I think it's important. It is part of the government's commitment that it took, of a government's commitment that it held the validation of this Parliament, to place the global contingency plan for the residential sector of Catalonia. In the same way that there is a contingency plan for each of the residences, that they are already..., they all have contingency plan approved for the Health Department, for one side, and for the Department of Work and Social Affairs, for another, because you have the double look. It forms part of the objectives to strengthen the system as much as possible; a system that – I think we have all discussed on more than one occasion – deserves a rethink – deserves a rethink. I am also aware that it is not so much if the system is more institutionalized or if the system has one character or another in its impact around the pandemic. Because we have seen it, we have seen it in Europe, we have seen it with systems that are similar to Catalan and Spanish, such as French or Italian, but we have also seen it with systems that are different, such as Swedish. This represents a reflection. But in these reflections we must also add our efforts. This government has made an effort with an economic contingency plan – there were no other contingency plans in the state – and this government also made an effort this week around a compromise that we had already approved with assumptions, which was the best tariff, and thought very clearly in order to have an answer in the professional, professional – because we are basically talking about the professionals – of the whole social sector. It is around this line that we continue to work and around this point that when we detect that there may be some legal security problem at the time of the contingency plan application, because the relationship is different, it is with the person and it is not with the residential center, so change the decree, make the changes, and present it in this Parliament, which is what it is looking for. They can't be quiet. And I think it's a demonstration that at the moment we're still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.222.0	Thank you, Counselor. We then moved on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. This turnaround is two minutes for the parliamentary group and five minutes for the parliamentary subgroup. The first word is for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Deputy Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.223.0	Good afternoon. We came from a decree, 29/2020, which, as we expressed in its day, had several defects, serious defects. One particular concern is that the councilhouse disagreed with the replenishment of staff who were low or had to be confined, even though they knew that this could lead to situations of carelessness in the residences. Even so, it is true that the previous decree was supposed to help the residences to pay for contingency plans that were required of the centres. And what has happened since its adoption, from the adoption in July of this decree 29, is that the Generalitat has not made the corresponding payments, because today the Government still owes the residences the extra cost for the Covid, which is 196_euros per public square. It has outstanding payments since July. They are also due to pay for the empty places to leave the residences as a contingency in case a resident is to be confined with Covid. And, on the other hand, since the pandemic began, it was forbidden to make income in the residences, but as it was an activity of social impact they could not make ERAs or ERTEs, which was unsustainable for them, and the Administration, therefore, had to take charge. Those empty beds that have to leave the residences in case they are to be confined to a... excuse me, those empty places that were left..., of those empty beds that were left because no more income could be made in the residences had to be taken over by the Administration, of the cost of those beds that were left empty, and they also stopped paying in July. What does this involve? That the Generalitat, by axe or by be– then we will go to that question– has not paid these extras that, among other things, should serve the residences to prepare for a new wave of Covid, which we already have on us; er once again have been abandoned by the Administration. In October, what happens is that many centres say that they can no longer, that they will not only not be able to cope with these contingency plans that are required of them, but that, today, which has already ended October, there are centres that have not been able to pay payrolls or rents. And that's how the Government of the Generalitat, then, turned a contingency plan into a negligence plan. And, in the end, everything jumps into public light; in the end, the media echoes these defaults. And what was the counsel for Treball i Afers Socials arguing to explain why he did not make the payments? It informs employers that it is Intervention who does not let them make payments because there is some kind of legal problem or error in the decree and that Intervention refuses to make these payments. Intervention, as you all know, when it paralyzes a payment is because it does not comply with the law in force. And that's why one of the last things Torra did before she went was to throw the Mossos and the agents at the lions saying they were an obstacle to independence because they wanted to enforce the law and enforce the law. Well, the councillor tells the employers that to remedy all this they will draw another decree that corrects the effects of the previous decree. Then we meet the parliamentary groups last week, and it explains exactly the same to us, that the payments are paralyzed by a legal struggle between the legal services of the department, the General Intervention and the Delegated Intervention, and that they have had to correct up to thirteen times the version of a new decree, which we understand is this one that is submitted today to debate and vote, therefore, in order to arrive at the appropriate legal formula. The curious thing is that the documentation attached to this decree does not say a word of all this. It's usually accompanied, a decree, a memory or some kind of documentation that justifies it, isn't it? , not the need for this decree. In fact, the advisor in his speech has gone from points to points; he has talked about achieving legal certainty in general, when to us what was explained to us, and also to employers, is that this whole problem came for something very concrete, because of the issue of accredited places, the ENPs... What they have explained to us is that they have had to draw this decree because of the legal reparations made by Intervention on the implementation of Decree 29 regarding something very concrete. It would have been normal for them to provide us with the information with the documentation. But, in this case, the documentation attached to this decree, I repeat, does not say a word of all this that has been explained to us. Moreover, I have asked you on several occasions – and there are the spokespersons of the rest of the parliamentary witness groups – the intervention reports or reports from the technicians or legal services, who have motivated the non-payments to be made, and have not given them to me. If this comes, theoretically, to correct deficiencies in Decree 29, an honest government, a government of good faith, would documentally accompany the explanation of the theoretical technical problems that exist. And, since they do not, at least if the opposition asks it – because I have not been the only spokesman; in this case, the spokesman of the UPC also reiterated my request – because it would normally be easier for us to do so. But they haven't. And since you don't, it makes us suspicious. Also, considering that this decree 29, previous, isn't it? This one we are voting for, he was empowering them to make payments related to residences, payments on terms that we could all agree with at first glance, but, of course, now it turns out that, following the investigation for alleged corruption, we discovered that the government would have entrusted the management of residences to a shadow committee. They'll understand that we suspect and ask for clarification. After the news published and the judicial intervention it is inevitable not to have the impression that here what has happened is that some would have seen the opportunity of the Covid, of the health emergency of the Covid, to grant millionaire contracts to the turn friends, and that Intervention paralyzes it because its function is that things be done legally. And the famous thirteen versions of this new decree..., the impression that it gives is that, then, they were to see how they could paste things to make costumes according to certain interests or to justify contracts to finger and allegedly commissions to the turn friends. And all this while the residences were dying for the lack of payments that were retained because, when they drafted decree 29, it gives the feeling, therefore, that the aim would not be to facilitate, help, accompany the residences to pass this drink of the Covid, but that the writing of this decree would be used to achieve another end. And look, for Intervention to pay back there has to be a report behind it that justifies it, and the government doesn't provide these reports. It is easy to think that there would be other interests behind, that they would have warned them that this they intended to do was not possible, and that they would have been since July extending this topic ad etherum, looking for a loophole to get away with it. And most probably, then, in the end they had to give up; if not, why give several versions on the motivation of this decree and the refusal to provide us with technical, legal and intervention reports? It is inevitable to think that behind this could be the long shadow of that plot of alleged corruption, that there would be a modus operandi that would permeate the entire Generalitat, therefore, to take advantage of the opportunity to give millionaire contracts to the amiguetes, and that in no case would the best interests of the people living in the residences and the professionals who are attending to them prevail and that these would be only a_medium for their true purpose, which is to take the raw. And in the meantime, we have the ill-treated residences, on the verge of closure, without having received all these extras, with a staff that is exhausted, of which you disagree, which you are not helping to recruit, as you do with the hospital centers; with PCRs to carry out workers who should do so at a risk of a rebound rate of three hundred, and you do not start to do so until this rate reaches eight hundred, with a delay of four days to give the results. So if someone gives positive what happens with this delay is that it has been positive for four days, as little as it is, around the residence. And then there's the subject of the visitors. You not only do not restrict visits, but encourage them, without any kind of quick test at the entrance of residences, tests that cost four_euros. We have hospitals banning visits because of the risk of vectors of contagion, and residences expanding them. We cannot understand that the same vector is a risk of contagion in a hospital and not a risk of contagion in a residence, if it is exactly the same vector. I think this is a discriminatory, negative treatment for people who are in residences. And they can't be giving contradictory messages saying they..., they can't ask citizens to stay in their homes while allowing a person in a residence to leave the residence and come back in, with the risk of contagion it carries. Its management translates into institutional mistreatment of residents and those who care for them, and it is desperate to see that they make the same mistakes over and over again. We will not support this decree. Even less so when we have not received technical reports that support what they have been explaining at different meetings, and under no circumstances, clearly, to the citizenry. There are many residences that are waiting for these payments to be able to cope with the second wave of the Covid, which has already arrived at the residences, although you seem to have not found out. And that's why we're not going to vote against it. Now, I couldn't come to this Faristol and intervene and be honest with the citizenry and explain..., that is, I had to explain the real reasons why we can't support this decree. And it is that we do not trust either the management or the motivation that would lead to the advisors of Treball..., in this case to you and the councillor of Salut, when making decisions related to residences and the pandemic of the Covid. And for this reason we will not support this decree and we will abstain. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.224.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Forward Units. The word has the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.225.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor, a public decree passed in July, approved the month of September, and which comes back this month of November because it was done badly. I think this would be a bit of a summary of the approval of this Decree 35/2020 that they bring today to debate in this Parliament. And they're not minor decrees. They are decrees that set an extraordinary increment in the rates that cover the residences, that they are making, that they will make and that they have made a very important pocket to face the pandemic; a decree that is very sensitive to the reality that we are living. Catalonia needed to act urgently, to gather the great oblivions of the pandemic, which under our eye has been the residential sector, to ensure its economic sustainability, to ensure that it can pay the names to its professionals. They needed swiftness, determination in the government's actions, and this was not a decree that is exemplary in that sense. At this time, the residents of Catalonia do not cover this extraordinary increase; they are due the months of July, August, September, October, and, if all goes well, it seems that at the end of November they could collect. Five months late, with the pandemic. And there's also no charge for those beds that have been empty and that couldn't be occupied, also because of the pandemic. This fact tension, and much, the treasure of the residences, especially the smaller ones, not so much for the increase as for the regression of this decree, which under our point of view is very small... And you may say to me, "It's better than anything else. Effectively. It seems that the Government has renounced a correct financing of the residential rates, after more than 4,000_million euros of retailing in social policies of the past years..., starring for Esquerra Republicana with the help of the Catalan right. And it's that, actually, recovering everything you've retaliated isn't done in a day. Yesterday you announced the increase of the tariffs to the residential sector in line with which the assumptions were marked. We told them at the fever, we'll tell them again now: these increases seem to be insufficient. He says the same thing too. That is to say, at this hour, with these increments we will not be in a position to reduce the waiting lists, nor to extend the rates, nor to improve the working conditions of the workers, which in many cases are professional that do not reach a thousand euros per month to care for our great people. If the increments are insufficient, imagine, moreover, if they don't even pay in time and form. And, of course, I take advantage of it to include day centres as well. You, Mr. Counselor, were bringing in some data from the latest Ple on which I said that you were almost 100_per_cent of the ordinary payment for what you do to residential services, that what was left to pay was actually, therefore, the import of this extraordinary and the empty beds. During these days I have rejected different arrest tricks from the territories of directors, day center directors, and wanted to share with you their concern, so they would say to me: "We do not cover from March; we do not cover from March month. And they gave me the day centers of the North Barcelones up to Tarragona, Lands of the Ebre. Therefore, I believe that here you must reflect very seriously on what is the method of payment you are using. No new tickets, Mr. Counselor. It's going to blow. Because, in addition, I trust you in the data you provide, but also in the direct information I get from these centers. They don't cover since March 2020. I can announce you an increase in rates, but the problem is that there is not even just a payment schedule, necessary for the maintenance of any company. I insist on what I said to him, his government now has €3,200_million to be able to do so and that they have been passed over by the government of the State. And, please, check the data and pay for the day centers. In fact, tomorrow we will vote in this Parliament on a motion that includes this point. Back to today's decree, where was the problem? So that Intervention – and you explained it – did not see how to justify payment to some people-directed service residencies. And, therefore, I try to do a pedagogical exercise with this explanation. Economy, Intervention and its department do not get out of how they can pay for the empty beds that remained in the residences after the success of these months; empty beds that could not be occupied by other people because of the impossibility of making us into the pandemic. How could intervention justify the payment of a service that had not occurred? How could they drive the payment of a personal benefit if there was no person who was receiving the service? It's a little something you explained before in your exhibition. And this month's debate has affected 80 per cent of the residents in Catalonia, both for what it does in terms of working places, co-workers, and related services of residence. Welcome to this decree if it is – and now we are told that it is – to solve the financing problems, and to consider that the increase is insufficient and that things have not done well. Our parliamentary group will therefore abstain so that it can be approved. The same position we had before. That they make the payment that you yourself have committed is essential for the support of the sector, but also to have the Contingency Plan completed for residents, of late, approved in July. If it is not paid, the residences will not be able to contract the 1,800 professionals that this same plan. We know that this hiring of staff is not enough to meet the needs of this second job. With this increase, a medium-sized 40-seat residence will be able to hire a new professional or new professional in the middle of the day. This is the increment, this is the translation of the increment. I, therefore, insufficient. For another band, the relationship between CAPs and residences has improved – and we hope that the situation of primary education, therefore, does not affect this relationship – or the formation of workers and workers. It's good here. But for the direct attention of the residents, this increase is not enough and not having paid it since July does not help. Not having financed empty places in time has caused some residents to have occupied free beds as of September, in double rooms, with people from different centers. They had to sort between completing the plan or arriving within the month. Intentions, Mr. Counselor, do not further strain the sector. I demand a clear bet for the cures, to donate in the form of serving everything that the great people have given us with their efforts. Pay to keep the jobs – precarious, low-lying – of those professionals who take care of our great people. And, as I said, we will not vote against an increase in tariffs proposed for the government, because we understand that the situation is so critical that any increase is positive. It will not be for us that the sector does not have a certain oxygen to pull forward and improve its pocket to protect large people or people with disabilities. But the mistakes in the making of this decree should be reflected. They cannot be announced without knowing if you are able to complete them; they should not generate expectations that cannot be completed by responsibility. And I take these last few minutes, Mr. Counselor, to petition him, too. Our parliamentary group believes that you must urgently compare yourself to the Commission for the Investigation of Residences. There are still three meetings, three meetings of this committee, and there is still no direct manager of the government's management of residences. Our divender parliamentary group asked for their appearance to give explanations of their management in March and also why they could decide on the information recently published in open court proceedings. There have been formal additions to the Ciutadans groups, common and Popular Party to ask for their appearance and also that of Mrs Vergés. We believe that you, the two advisors directly responsible for the management of residences, must compare to the Commission for the Investigation of Residences. Sounds logical. So Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia dilluns to the meeting deny it. And I ask you to do to the committee what Mr Aragonès did today: to come and say that everything that has been published is false, to come and say that it was not created a parallel committee to the official for the management of the residences, to come and say that there is no type of contract of services to companies participating for Mr Vendrell, who does a transparency exercise. You didn't appear on a parliamentary committee to talk about residences, just a little bit in the year, in the month of April. And he did it in the House of Residents, later, driven by my parliamentary group, in July. Therefore, they ask them, respecting the presumption of innocence of all the investigators and investigators, to come to the committee and deny the hard accusations that these same investigators manifest to their telephone conversations. Moreover, I do not expect the Bureau of the Committee to decide, and you will appear on your own motion. I trust you do, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. I've got a word for Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.227.0	Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. According to the explanation just given by the councillor, also that the government gave us the other day, this decree is the result of the clash between the wishes and the need for extraordinary measures and also the strict control of the intervention in the money of an administration at ordinary times, controls that fall, controls that are necessary and that we claim and demand, but that in exceptional situations as the present one we understand that they can score a little mass. Moreover, an example of why a state of alarm and why we will certainly need it again now is fixed: because in order to be able to do exceptional procedures in exceptional times we need tools that allow us to do it in a more agile way. Well, this decree is therefore the result of legal and administrative disputes within the government. The decree of July 1st was a contingency plan for residential centres and other services in the dependency sector and the portfolio of social services to cover already girl's expenses for the situation generated by the Covid and to prepare for the second wave. It was validated in September for this Parliament. We also told them then that we found it insufficient in numbers, but that obviously they would not put any locks in which they pulled forward, and so, therefore, we also abstained. But it did not apply; for these doubts, differences on the procedure. Look, obviously today we're going back to allowing this decree to be validated, we're not going to put it through and we're going to abstain; to settle the sugar, we're going back to making the same vote that we did with the previous decree. And, we also say, we understand, because unlike other parliamentary groups we have experience of management, that there may be these differences and these discussions respect the will and need of exceptional measures and strict controls that intervention must make of public money. We understand, we've been living it since the management. But what is unjustifiable is that it does not solve this question, these differences, before making the decree of July, counselor. What is unjustifiable is that it announces, therefore, all that could facilitate that decree of July 29th, is generated an expectation and could not be applied. And what's unwarranted is that since July 29th they approved the law decree as the government detected that they couldn't pay it and didn't resolve it until October. This is November. The consequence of this unjustified failure to resolve the issue before the July decree and this delay until now in order to resolve it is that there is a sector that has been economically offensive, because it has had to make extraordinary expenses that have not been compensated, but that, moreover, resources have not been made available to it because it can be prepared for a second wave that is already full in our society, and therefore also to the residents, that no plants have been strengthened and that no other security measures are guaranteed. And that's what makes us sick. And that's what we need to bring him back, counselor. It seemed good to us that you were trying to make life easier for the residents, wasn't it? Because he can prepare himself, but he hasn't done it. And it has been because of your internal problem of not managing normal differences, lawful and legitimate that you have to respect the tools of extraordinary attack at a time like the present, with public money. Well, now that the technical elements are resolved, we understand, with this decree we're going to validate, and these legal questions solved, now we're quick to pay, please; quick to pay for what hasn't been paid for all these months and what they're going to have to pay from now on. Certainly, before you made that decree law as the government, you announced, yourself, at the beginning of July, a reinforcement of staff as the government. You came out publicly on July 6th, that there would be a reinforcement of 1,800 professionals to the residents, hierogulturists and auxiliaries. They were talking about 370 infirmaries to cover twenty-and-four-hour infirmary turns at the centres of more than sixty residents. At the same time, 450 health professionals, from the health system, were announcing greetings to ensure care for the residents. We're talking more than a thousand residents in Catalonia. So, it's not like there's any deorbiting in there, is it? , the names of professionals who are strengthening, but, go on, they announced this to you. What have these figures actually done? How many of the 1,800 professional reinforcements have there been? How many of the 370 nurses or nurses? How many of the 450 health professionals to strengthen health care? How many? Because that was before the second wave, and we're already on the second wave. I don't know if he'll be able to answer these questions, but it's important that he answers them. And why is it important that these things are answered? And why is it important that you tell us what happened in the first wave, what didn't work out in the first wave, why is it doing better now? What are they doing different? Because there will also come a third and perhaps one who has to manage the third or fourth is already another government, we want you to come and compare it to the Residents Research Commission. It is important that they come, too, to clarify, to deny absolutely what has occurred in judicial investigations, but above all to explain to us what happened in the first wave, what was done well, what was not done well, what lessons have not been learned, what are they doing differently, what have they done with what they promised, what is not, what will we find, what is more, right? The political leaders of the management have to do it, it's a commission of inquiry into this, and no one has yet come to manage it. Therefore, I also joined, counselor, we joined as a group, and I joined today, in the petition: come, please, in one of your own sessions, as soon as possible, to the Residents Research Commission, and explain this to us, because, if not, you have not heard this commission, if the managers, the Government, can not come, to explain to us what happened. I also take this opportunity to make reference, even though it is not a reference to the decree, but you have also made reference to the increase in the standard rates which the Government approved yesterday for dependency, disability and childhood, for example, by adding, therefore, increasing these rates by 35_millions, which are the ones that have compromised with the Catalonian Group in Comú We can in the negotiation of assumptions. Get away from it, obviously, I'm sorry about what they're more happy about than just materializing the deal, which cost me a little bit, which, by pulling a little bit from here and a little bit from there, ended up in 35_million. You didn't do it, but you're asking for it, take it away from your government: please, communicatively don't colline this as an extraordinary measure between Covid's extraordinary backgrounds. No, sir, it's a compliment to a presupposition agreement, to the presuppositions of 2020. Actually, in the explanation of the same government press release, if you go to the small letter you see it, but it's stuck with an assumed extraordinary game for Covid. No, it's not, it's not. It is the compliment of a presupposition agreement; late, but the compliment of a presupposition agreement. Of course, now we pay, we pay this increase in orderly tariffs, we pay the extras that today allow, we understand, that it is thawing or unlocking with this new decree that we validate. And they're also asking him another topic: I'm taking advantage now to start planning how we're going to take advantage, from the principles of the year you see, of the fact that radically changes how finance is from the state, if there are any assumptions, that now, right? There will be a debate in the Congress, by 2021, since the State..., will radically change the infra-financing so brutal that there has been in the later years of the addiction sector. It reverses, by the way, the girl details since 2012, increases the contribution of the State in a 46_per_cent to reduce waiting lists and to improve performance, and, very important also for us, there will be more than 700_million euros of European funds to move from the current model of residences to a model more focused on home care. So, counselor, I'm starting to think, I'm starting to plan, we're not wasting time, how will the best possible use be made of these foreign resources that will arrive to reduce waiting lists, to improve benefits, to improve working conditions, from what has already been done with this million tariffs approved by the government and with what can be done later, but also as moving to a system more focused on home care, more focused on the community and less on residences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Call. The word has the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.229.0	So it's very late for all of us. First of all, we wanted to thank the institutional relations of the department, Mrs. Calveras, and also Mr. Iglesies, which the divender called us to a meeting. And we didn't ironically say it, really. We think it's a good practice that before we even get a decree validated, like we do today, so we can have a meeting where we can talk. That said and thank you, we do want to convey it to Mr.Cesc Iglesies who, during the meeting of various groups – it has already been commented on – various Members expressly asked him to send us a transcript of the reports that could have been there since the Intervention as well as of the legal services of the department. The day this Member did not reject it, and it would seem to him that the rest of the Members and Members who were not asked to do so either. And that, to some extent, invalidates a part of it that we can bring in position to the department in order to combat certain arguments. We don't always ask, Members and Members, reports to criticize or attack the Government; we also ask them – and it is our obligation to criticize and attack, too – to be able to contribute. But if they don't pass on these reports to us, then it's hard for us to make a positive contribution. And let's face it, because we're going to see the decree. Decree, Article 1, of which practically no one has spoken. The modification didn't happen on the 29th, but on the 19th. So, mirin, a" and or a" or have a different meaning, in a decree. And we congratulate ourselves that now it is clear that the state of alarm is not necessary to approve a whole series of measures. I therefore change from 'and a' or it is a situation that, obviously, we can appreciate positively. Next articles, from 2 to 4 – or, better said, 2 and 4, first. That you make an addition to "home or home" residences, because this is the concept, beyond that you can generate a new need for real meaning, for us, for this parliamentary subgroup, it was unnecessary. And we want to explain why, beyond the speeches or legal debates that you may have had intervention and legal services, for us there was already this right. And, therefore, those who have been denied..., who also take advantage of the appearance of this subgroup in the validation of this decree to defend that the right existed before. Still, we think that if there were any doubts, then, to accompany him now with this reference, if it is to clarify some doubts, but without denying that there was already this possibility, welcome still. Then, for which reference is made to Articles 3 and 6, the follow-up of the ENP. Mirin, you know perfectly well that we are not in favour of indirect management, of private management, that we want a public management cent_per_cent, but in a context like the present, of crisis of the Covid and of lack of resources and underfunding, of indirect management, of private management and, finally, of the ENP, that it is another thing that is not well managed, but that it is possible to consider the management, we also value positively that it is included. This, yes, once we say that we value being involved, to us what we have liked is not a generic reference for more workers, for more EPIs and for more health care measures, but an effective guarantee that with the perception of these amounts of companies that manage indirectly they will be able to decrease or accommodate workers and workers, because, if not, it is possible to give the paradox that while the Administration is increasing the contribution, there are workers and workers of this service who are unworkable. And we already told them, when we validated, with the same as we would today, an abstention, decree 29: guarantees. But you still don't have guarantees. And lastly, with reference to Article 5, which you have now followed up on Article 5 with reference to disabilities, so it seems to us that it is a small thing that we have commented on for Article 2 and for Article 4: it wants to fill some technical defect; surely, it was not necessary for us either, but welcome if this means that we can pacify, in any case, what the Decrees 19 meant..., but above all the 29th. And a later reflection, at the collation of which he had previously exposed, therefore, the spokesman of the commons. Yesterday, on page 7– page 7– of the communication that executes on your agreements, we say: « Here are 35_million. It is true that this Member heard for a long time that there were 40, the agreement, but the discussion today will not be this, if there were 40– he heard it that way, huh? –; we'll have another discussion. You have 35, but on page 7 you expressly say that 3 and Mig are extraordinary, and therefore that they do not have a bearing on assumptions. They must clarify with the Lords and Lords of the commons whether they are actually completing the agreements or not completing the agreements. Page 7, it says expressly that 3.5_million are for an extraordinary contribution. And so they have to tell us whether they're in or not they're in that amount. But there are questions that don't fit and still don't fit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.231.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, everyone knows perfectly well that from March onwards the residences have experienced an extraordinaryly important calvary. We've seen, we've suffered in the first person, we've suffered through family members, we've suffered through news. And besides, what you don't know, or don't know so much, is that the same residences, apart from the management that they had to do with the situation that they were living in, needed to buy personal protective equipment that they didn't have, on a saturated market, on a market where prices went off, where orders didn't arrive... That is, in an unusually difficult situation. Plus, they needed to strengthen the staff. And all this was difficult, and all this was costly and costly. With the forecast of the second one, obviously, 'lsha demanded...' – the government was also required to have the necessary security measures for the residences. In addition, it leaves empty places to guarantee the isolation of people who may be in those residences and who require it at certain times. A staff reinforcement. And all this, obviously, had to be paid – obviously, had to be paid. Therefore, we are not talking about resources that are intended to pay the contingency plans for the second year, but we are also talking about compensation for the overexpenditure that already existed from March 14th or from the beginning of March. When the Government brought the decree to us by law 29, with force at the end of July, with the effects of the financing from 1 July, validated to Parliament by September, the criticism to be made to the Government, aside from whether or not it is sufficient the financing that is provided for the residences for these concrete circumstances, was that they had not paid, even though the decree was in force since the end of July, and therefore were entitled to be able to pay. Well, we'll see for sure now, sure, 'cause he didn't get paid. But it is now that we are in November, and therefore the period of time that has prolonged the payment of these compensations has been excessive. And the one who puts this decree into evidence today... said the counselor: "It's a technical change. And yes, it's strictly a technical modification, but if I'm allowed it's more a correction than not a technical modification; one, two, three corrections, not a modification. Simply because the will of what he wanted to do in the decree of the end of July..., is the decree 29 of the end of July; the will is exactly the same as the will that will remain with the modifications that will be incorporated into this decree. Therefore, what has been done is correct. Which also makes it clear that if things are done well girls, the state of alarm was not necessary. But as things have not been done well girls, neither there nor here, it has been necessary to reapply the state of alarm, for one band, and, for another band, it is necessary to correct this decree to the extent that the residents can pay these extra costs. And, therefore, we will adopt, in relation to this decree, exactly the same position as we adopted in Decree 29, which is forbearance to allow its approval, but manifesting these small discrepancies. And I finish my speech by adding to the other parliamentary groups that have already asked the Councillor and the Health Councillor to do the favor of comparing them to the Resident Investigation Commission. It is important that you explain everything you have to do with how the management of residences has been completed throughout this period of time, basically to learn about mistakes and prevent this from ever happening again, but also, above all, because if you consider that you have to deny the information we have known this week, I think it is important that you do so and that you do so as before in your Parliament. That's what we'd like, that you can deny it. But the truth is, while you don't, we still think that the public that some people have said and have done, so maybe it's true. Therefore, we ask them to appear on this committee and clarify what their situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. There's a word from Congresswoman Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.233.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies and deputies, councillor, very late everyone. As we are before a decree of social and health measures to deal with the consequences and effects of the Covid, I want to begin, therefore, once again convey all the shock and support to the people affected by the pandemic, to all the citizens who have any person who is infected, confined or admitted, and, especially, to whom he has lost his own people during these days and months because of the Covid. And also, again, I want to convey all the support and scale to whom the pandemic has turned its economic situation upside down and, therefore, has spread its life of uncertainty and difficulty. Today's situation is extremely difficult, we are immigrating from the name given, and if we do not take the necessary measures the list of affected people will continue to grow. For this reason, a number of new measures have been taken in the past weeks to prevent infection. Surely, they are measures that we would not like to see how they apply, but we know that they are the necessary formulas to cut the infection. The balance between people's mental salvation, the physical salvation of the citizenry and the economic salvation of the country is very difficult, and therefore these measures have been constantly adapted, and, in fact, this decree is not an exhibition. We know that the risk of recovery today is at 747 and the transmission rate is 0.96; given that, although they are still very difficult, they show that these measures that have been taken have their effect before the time of the infection, but we believe that we should continue to make efforts and not forget that we are also part of a context: Europe's region is experiencing very high amounts of infection. We are all aware that the risk is difficult, and this forces us, therefore, to anticipate, because what we do not want, precisely, is to repeat the facts of the spring, the result of the disconcerting and unconsciousness of a pandemic that struck us at once. One of the major challenges we had to deal with, one of the major challenges we had to deal with, was the management of the residential environment: it was not prepared, the high speed of the infection left the professionals without it, and it collapsed the system, but above all, it placed the great people in a situation of great vulnerability. We haven't talked many times in this Parliament, and that's what we need to do, so we need to rethink the environment of the big people and also rethink the model and the residential system. We are all clear that what happened in April cannot happen again, and, despite having an alarming context, the weeks are in the green in most of the country's residents, and so I feel, and I think today, if I'm not wrong, there are four intervening residents. I think we don't have any experience and we don't have any mistakes, and we also need to be able to reinforce ourselves from everything that went well. And I can go on like this, because what's waiting for us is a complex delay and surely the winter that's not going to be easy either. The objective I think is clear, the objective is to prevent. Therefore, this decree I believe is in line to follow in this line, in the line of prevention, and it does so adapting some technical aspects, which the Councillor has already explained, from the decrees 19/2020 of May and 29/2020 of July to the current needs, in order to provide more legal certainty. It is a management that we believe is necessary in order to continue building everything that allows us to fulfil the commitment to protect the most vulnerable people, in this case, therefore, in the residential area, as well as to guarantee good service and quality, above all, to this second issue. It has become clear that the Covid pandemic has generated an exceptional situation in social services and also in the area and residential centres; that is why we believe that we need to continue to deploy those appropriate mechanisms to prevent future outbreaks and minimize the risk of infection and resurgence among the most vulnerable population. At the time, the decrees and laws already cited have already adopted adapted social and health measures, so that they can stop these effects caused by the pandemic, and some measures that can also be recognised that at the time they have also been effective and have been able to prevent, in the same way that they have also been taken into account and have been able to protect professionals and also users. One of the questions that I have, therefore, that we do not have after, of the past, in this sense. Specifically, therefore, what we believe this decree makes possible is the immediate activation and application of these protocols and requirements that the health authority ultimately sets out. And we understand that in order to complete this, that it is necessary to amend, and as a matter of urgency, these articles of the previous decrees will have to be amended. So, from the Republican Group we consider it opportune to propose the decree that we are debating and voting on today's law. The modification of these articles, an article that hangs on the Decree Law 6/2020 and five more that hang on from the 29/2020, and which will involve a better attention and prevention of all residential centers, to the schools for people with disabilities, to the schools for people with mental health problems, to the day centers of the great people, to the occupational therapy centers and to the occupational day centers of insertion. In this way, we believe that this decree is to agile and reinforce the payments of residences and day care. Also one of the issues that we highlight, and that includes, is the fact of being able to guarantee a number of empty places, so that if it produces a bud from one of the residencies that we have discussed, then it is possible to manage this bud, and so have more space and give quick response and provide proper attention. We also want to highlight the increase in the structural staff of the residences, and thus, to be able to face up to the impacts that the Covid has been able to produce, as well as the contract that has already been announced, and this decree contemplates it, of new staff suitable for the department to face the pandemic. And, besides, we also consider it opportune to extend nine measures to us, so that all those places financed with public resources will be covered, as well as the payment of entities, or to cover other forms of public financing to social services. Therefore, from the Republic Group, we see these amendments proposed by the decree as appropriate and, therefore, we will give support and vote in favour. As we also believe from the subject of modifications and repositioning and the thought of what to do before a new residential model and the great people..., we also believe that, as the Republican Group has done, we need to ask for the appearances, for example, of Minister Illa or Vice President Iglesias, and we also expect them to be delighted, so that we can find the answers before these problems that arose; since the groups that preceded me have also asked for them in the paragraph, so I also make this demand from here. In any case, we will always try to keep in mind the great challenge of putting people's lives at the centre, and I think that these last few months we have not much after that. I hope so, too, don't I? , that we take into account that in order to advance we must work collectively, because this is the only way to solve the great challenges in the health, social, economic and, above all, emotional fields. Only from the collective consciousness can we protect ourselves from being infected, and therefore leave no one behind. This is the main challenge presented to us by the Covid pandemic, to take care of us, but at the same time to be able to take care of us, and so, don't forget about anyone, and as I say, I insist, never let anyone go back. This second point has shown us that we cannot lower the guard, that the virus is more present than ever today, and that we can prevent the higher price from not paying the usual. We must fight inequalities, we must reduce them, above all we must eradicate them, and we must fight insecurity and guarantee more rights and freedoms. We must avoid repeating the supposed solutions of the 2008 crisis, because today we are not paying for its consequences, the details of today are still the mortgages that we are still watering, and the pandemic has only made it clear to us. We must once again strengthen solidarity networks, and above all, therefore, please and recognize the great pocket of all people..., sanitary and sanitary, caring people, public workers and workers and workers who guarantee the sub-ministries and basic services, and above all shield the health and social system and strengthen it. And I insist that from the collective consciousness we are able to overcome adversities. We are living with this second wave that has provided us with this pandemic, and it is clear to us that the path will not be easy or easy, but it is certain that since collaboration, cooperation and mutual help we will go out as a society and as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.234.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Juntas for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Saloua the Gharbi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.235.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to all. From the outset, I would like to begin my intervention by expressing my solidarity with the victims of fanatical terrorism. And I address myself to the guilty to say from the Faristol of the Parliament of Catalonia that you do not represent any religion or community, you only represent fanaticism or, precisely, your fanaticism, and I am simply terrorists in capital. Stop justifying in the name of religion your cowardice, your atrocity criminal against the pau, against coexistence and against innocent people. [[Greetings.]] I also express my solidarity with all the people who have suffered... [[The prayer is crying.]] Ostres, forgive me. [[Greetings. Pause.]] I also express my solidarity with all the people who have suffered from the Covid's hardships, and who continue to paint them. And that is why, today more than ever, we have to be responsible for the management that the government has to do and for the tools that this Parliament has to set aside. That said, and as the Councillor has said, our debate this late is on Decree Law 35/2020, of 20 October, amending Decree Law 19/2020, of 19 May, and Decree Law 29/2020, of 28 July, in the area of social and health measures to deal with the effects of the pandemic. This pandemic has generated a situation of exceptionality in all spheres, and obviously and especially in the area of social services. It requires continuous deployment, application and measurement adaptation. We must recognize that we are ahead of a battle economy against the Covid-19, and this difficult situation requires actions decided more transparently by the government, and to avoid misinterpretation, minimize a risk to health and life. Decree-Law 19/2020 and Decree-Law 29/2020 have already adopted a series of social and health measures aimed at addressing the effects of Covid-19 on social services, which have proved effective in facilitating these services, prevention-oriented activities, the protection of professionals and users, public health intervention, health care and social assistance, among others. Although these measures have been effective, in order to be able to implement immediately the protocols and requirements laid down by the health authority, in this Government's intention to adapt continuously to the situation, it is essential that certain articles of Decree Law 19/2020 and Decree Law 29/2020 be amended as soon as possible. This task of adapting to what happened is what makes this decree we are debating..., and, concretely, broadens the application of the measures for some social services that had been omitted at the time of approval of the decrees which are now being amended, and to which I referred. It also provides for measures to be opened to other forms of public financing of social services, such as the financial places with linked economic performance; it extends the scope of the temporary application while applying the exceptional public health measures to restrict the activity resulting from this health crisis; it includes an urgent and necessary measure: it enables the Councillor of Treball and Afers Socials – who is among us this late – because, by means of a resolution, he can order the direct payment of the measures provided for by Law 29/2020 of 28 July, to the residential centres, to the day-care centres accredited or to co-workers' centres or to the financial places with linked economic performance, obviously, to the activities of the much-awaited residential centres and to the complaints of other residential centres. As I have pointed out, everything to ensure the best possible functioning of social services while lasting the exceptional situation and restrictions because of this Covid-19, and with the certitude that the same legislative procedure allows. Because we are ahead of the essential fact of meeting first-class social needs, and these needs at these times cannot be met by ordinary legislative procedure. That is why the validation of this decree is proposed, which obviously we, like Junts for Cat, will vote in favour. That said, we know that we are ahead of a multidimensional crisis of cures and health care, but also an economic and social crisis of international character, and we lack resources, and the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia should focus on strengthening instruments, creating opportunities and mobilizing resources as ever. That's why, from Juntas to Catalunya, we'll be old because that's what you do, and we insist that all the decisions the government makes are aimed at protecting the people's salvation. But we also need to appeal to self-criticism, and we need to recognize that many things need to be improved in government, and they need to be improved to ensure the effectiveness and effectiveness of social services, to safeguard the dignity of the most vulnerable. We need better coordination of social services, put people's care at the center, Mr. Counsellor. We must be aware that our welfare state is still fragile and allows intolerable situations of poverty, infrahabitation, families with infants who do not have coverage or the most basic. Inequalities present in various ways, and the effects will not disappear when this crisis ends. Put the wire in the needle to avoid a possible deep social fracture. We should aspire to real social justice. As the person who has worked for many years in the social field and from Juntes for Catalonia we think that care needs to be overcome in order to guarantee social rights, taking into account basic criteria such as now the age, the aging of the population, the feminization of the poor or the middle of entry into a territory. But also, and referring to the feminization of the poor, I would like to remind Ciutadans's companies and companies, especially Naomi's company on the street, that they have not fulfilled their commitment – and the legislature has already ended – on the issue of the committee on the feminization of the poor, which was approved more than a year ago. And also, in relation to the issue of residences, they must not be the home where people are going to die, but they must become a space where people, a time they cannot or decide not to live home, can go to live with dignity at a concrete stage of their life. It is also obvious that we need to reduce bureaucratic burdens and facilitate procedures at the level, for example, of guaranteed citizenship income, which must operate in a more secure and less restrictive way in the care of dependence, because a person in an urgent situation cannot be treated with a processing that lacks an emergency perspective. With regard to a specific profile of immigrant citizenship, social services have to play a more active role and become involved in their social, labour and cultural integration, and this will allow all of the model based on benefits and the creation of collections with constant dependence on social services to be overcome. When people emigrate, they do it to work, to improve their living conditions, to evolve and to live in conditions of equality. All people must feel that they can change and improve their lives. We are aware, and our citizens must also be aware, that the presuppositional situation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and funding from the Generality is what it is and it allows us to do what it allows us to do, because we lack tools and resources. And, finally, I would like to recall... we must not forget that President Torra, before being unjustly disqualified, has struggled to safeguard the life and salvation of the citizenry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.236.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.237.0	... – thank you, I finish, Vice President – and, as President Torra has said on many occasions, this crisis must be carried out by the administrations, yes, the administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.239.0	...they have to match a great effort. Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.240.0	This debate is over, so I'm guessing that this vote will also be taken after the decree... yeah. Counselor, why ask me the word? I understand you want to make a turn over this point. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forward. You know that you, as a member of the government, can always ask for an intervention. This work comes back, anyway, if the groups ask for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.241.0	[[The counselor intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.265.0	Forward. I don't think we feel good about the mask.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.242.0	Now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.243.0	Forward. [[Pause.]] Okay. Do you want to intervene from the escó? I see. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.244.0	Thank you, Vice President. Now, this government has donated, donated and will always give the explanations, but if its negation is whether there has been a committee in the shadow or if any of the information that has emerged from relations, from the department, contractual with any of the persons investigated, the answer is so simple and so clear that I do it now: it is no, it does not exist. I can also say that we have nothing to do with the search for two thousand Russian soldiers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.245.0	I understand that time is very short; I don't know if I could distribute it among all groups to make some intervention. In any case, do I understand that no one wants to intervene? Does any group want to intervene? [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.246.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, no one has spoken of Russians. What we've asked you to do is that I'm going to be on board with the Residence Research Commission, the most responsible for the management of residences...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.247.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.248.0	...and I think we've told him politely, and his answer is not with education and with the petition of parliamentary groups, which have done so very formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.249.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Therefore, as I said before, substantial this point, we go to the next point, not without reminding them that the vote is done at the end of late. [[Proposal for a law on the stabilisation of workers and workers in the Catalan public sector (debate of totality)]] [[202-00079/12]] President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.250.0	Let us therefore move on to the debate on the totality of the proposal for a law on the establishment of workers and workers in the Catalan public sector, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. To expose this initiative, Mr Vidal Aragonese has a 15-minute turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.251.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. If today we're talking about the object of this bill's proposal is basically for two reasons: a first, because the Administration – and I say it in a broad sense – has become the great occupation agent of generation of precariousness. If we go to see the temporality levels of the workers and the workers, we will see that today the Administration in its conjunction, therefore, I am now talking about everyone but I could speak perfectly of the Generality of Catalonia, which is the object of this law, is a great generator of labor insecurity. Temporality, for us, is always precarious. But there is also a second reason or a second cause for which this late we are talking about this proposal of law, which are the most affected by this precariousness: the workers and temporary workers, if any, internal to the Catalan public sector, who, in order to keep their arms open, in order to fill the table, have done a self-organizing exercise, to come to their parliament, to mobilize, and therefore to think how to solve their future when no one was giving them solutions. Certainly, "workers, however, above all, double and triple day workers: the one who lend us as public servants, for a band; the one that many of them must lend to their homes and for the cures of their family, and, the third round, the one who did in a militant way when they came to convey their demands to us. Therefore, all the thanks to all these interim placards that have been generated in recent years and that they have assumed that today, in this Parliament, we are looking for a solution to their situation. To talk about the proposal of the law of stability of the interiors is also to talk about what the public sector means and what public services mean. "You serve public means where most of these deputies and deputies were born, public hospitals; where the majority went to school, public schools; where the good part we went to the institutes and the majority we went to the universities, but also what it means is social services where we would like not to go, but when we go there we have some workers who give us services. I"public services, what it means is to lay down political power, public power to try to remove a society, the capitalist, completely discriminatory and unequal in the treaty. This is what public services mean and what it means or can mean public administration when it is developed with force, with a reality of actually donating public services, not when it is minor. But if we are also talking about the essence of public servants and public administration, we need to talk about their workers and their workers. There is no public administration. They can already do it as they do, they can already think about the level of technological development they want, but there is no public service without public workers. And, therefore, also a _second recognition. And, look, if we're talking about the existence of public workers, we need to see what it means that a good part of them are precarious. And this is not a way of speaking: "We are temporal...; we see what the data say. I'll make them a roundabout of the dice, because it's easier at the time to hear them. Thirty-thousandth of September 2018, reality: 105,000 functional and stable functions versus 55,000 temporary or temporary functions; first reality. The second reality. Stable laborers, forty-thousand; temporary laborers, fifteen-thousand. I, therefore, see the xifra and comparin. In the later years we are in a reality that between 25 and 33 per cent of the workers and public workers were temporary, eventual or interim, not stable, in any case. But we never forget reading either, not only class, but also genere reading, in feminist clau. If we go to see the temporality data in what is the functional, temporal or stable regime, but we go to the temporality, a triple of temporality in women, and if we go to the labor regime, a double of temporality in women. This is the reality that we have, that we have had the last few years and that so far has not been resolved. Move on. We look at the data, but we also look at the causes. This is not the fruit of any malaise, of presuppositionary limits – even though we will then refer – but of different combined causes. First and decisive: a neo-liberal view of the Administration, which I understand is to be reduced to a minimum expression, and, therefore, "I don't make workers and workers stable, but temporary wants, to see if I can leave at some point to count with them or with them. Concrete model as the main cause of job insecurity. Second cause, troika policies. There may be many and many going with a holder, that the CUP comes out to defend a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; yes, its application. It's funny that the anti-capitalists have to do this. But what we say is that we also find between the institutions of the European Union..., and their policies of the troika since 2010, which means presuppositionary limitation, which we have discussed many times, of repositioning rate and of other limitations that have been often excused and in other times constraintly so as not to be able to transform the reality of the workers and public workers, but we also have to say: a regulation, the current one, that is not adequate nor so alone to the directives of the European Union as to temporality and equal treatment. These are the elements that have generated the level of temporality and precariousness that we have until today in the Catalan Public Administration. And, look, when we start this legislature, what we're up against is, like, giving an answer to this. Four Members are difficult, but we set ourselves up. And the exercise we did is what we always said we would do the UPC, which is to bring the voice of struggles to this Parliament, and many of you have been able to compare in meetings that called the UPC with collections of precariousness, but also with the most representative unions of the Public Administration. We don't make a sectarian selection. We invite all who can bring and have some legitimacy. And after that we have made motions, and after that we have made statements to the motions, and after that we have required the Councillor's appearances, and after that we have asked that the directives of the European Union be applied and, finally, a certain feeling, without any response on the part of the Administration Councillor and the Government Council, because it seems to us that the solution here cannot only come from the Department, but from the Government Council. Arrived at this point, on September 2019 this parliamentary subgroup had already prepared a bill. Certainly, the proposal of the law that I did not have much to see with what we are discussing today, was more quickly a concretion of Article 61.6 of the EBP, that, curiously, from the department it was said that it was illegal what we had proposed, that some deputies and deputies of the group in which the councilor is a part would say that they were not adjusted to the right and that on 23 October, at the Congress of Deputies, they were practically asking for the same, in a more reduced way, but they do recognize that there is no problem of legality in relation to the application or concretion of Article 61.6 of the EBP. Welcome is all that it is to bring, but we also obviously ask that we have an element of coherence. They're going to plant it in Madrid and they're not going to plant it here, we have the counseling. He's very curious, curious. I would allow it, legality, because what you say legality is law, not organic law or state law; therefore, a law here would also allow it. After that we waited late. Sentence's settled. Spring came and we had it on March 19. From March to June we did not have the opportunity to process a bill, with the terms suspected, but when this possibility was recovered we talked to the inside collectivities and explained the law to them. You want to be a reality of what the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 March and then a resolution on the problem of precariousness, all two things. And what do you say, in a very brief way, that sentence? So, first, tell us what fraudulent contracting is about the reality of public workers. And you tell us: doing regular and permanent tasks through temporary contracting is fraudulent. Tell us, don't put a limit on temporary contracting is a fraud. Tell us, don't take the seats. It's a fraud. But you keep telling us that it won't be a compliment on that feeling. And tell us in a very clear way: it will not be a compliment of the feeling now taking the seats of those temporary workers. That's not a compliment on the feeling. You tell us: it's not a compliment on the feeling that replicates that what is being done, in any case, is a strict management of human resources and according to presuppositionary limitations; you tell us explicitly. And it tells us that the figure of indefinite non-fixed construction of jurisprudence to the Spanish social and contentious jurisdiction is neither a reality through which it is a compliment to which that judgment leads, that it is, for a band, measures that give estabilitated for workers and workers, and explains to us how these two sole measures can consist. It's about two. You tell us, for a band: a possible measure is to incorporate or recognise – incorporate into the legislation, recognize through administrative action – a dissuasive compensation for workers and workers who find themselves in law fraud. But you already tell this parliamentary subgroup at the side of the chamber that this will never be our bet. For two motius. The first is fundamental, the determinant: because we can't lose a single worker or public worker, nor one; we need them all, and, above all, what we need are their knowledge, their learning, their good work, their accumulated functioning in the Public Administration. I, therefore, can't leave either one or one of them. This is the great strength, obviously, of our country as the Administration, which means its workers and its workers and we cannot lose one. And the second element, which doesn't seem smaller to us either. Obviously, what it would cost the public era to pay compensation that must be dissuasive and, therefore, we are not talking about eight or twelve days a year, nor about twenty, but about thirty-three days a year worked. It's not a solution for us in any case. And the second solution that fixes the feeling is: they make a recognition of equal rights. And that's what this law proposal does, exactly that, that's legal surgery. First of all, definition of which is the scope of application. And, in the field of application, we consider: the field of application is the Catalan public sector in a broad sense. And we explain, moreover, what the broad sense of the Catalan public sector is: the first article of this law, which is the execution of an obligation arising from a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. According to the article: we make a definition of those situations that are fraud of the law and are to be transformed. And let us say, expressly: those activities that are permanent or stable in the Administration and that are done through contracts – temporary, eventual, interim – that exceed three years, and therefore a triple condition in the object that we are regulating, must be transformed. And they have to turn into what, counselor? They don't have to turn into you, because then someone hasn't explained it again; we're not talking about this. What we say is that they are to become the very rights that workers and workers have to work in a stable manner, which is absolutely different, and which obviously respects all the processes of selection of merit and ability of public service, where we are not going in to make cheats. And now it's going to be like those workers who are in their early twenties or who are working in the public sector and are still working, who are going to make a contest or opposition to whom they're working competing and, unfortunately, they're competing with whom they're not working. It's an absolutely unequal relationship. And the third question we're looking at. And what does this equal right mean? So it means the same right, but it also means, in the same right, that if your place goes to contests – now, perhaps, after many years that do not go to contests someone gets laid – so, obviously, if you don't win the place, you don't see how you lose your place of work. Why? Because their situation was already consolidated – previously. And, therefore, you do not hold the workers and the workers responsible for whom during the decades the Administration, with its obstructive action, has caused, that it is not to take places, for which it is to be; that it is not to give off; that it is to use workers and workers to do regular and permanent tasks with temporary contract. They don't. And lastly, also, with what we have tried to do as a good legal technique, we make an additional arrangement, where we rule that all this, this recognition of this condition, will have to be incorporated in your recognition of the relationship of work places. Why? Because, for someone to doubt, this law proposal is not building a new contractual figure. No, no, We're not building a new contract figure. We are giving application to a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And so, where the department, resolving some complaint from some public worker, said we had absolute sovereignty. In the rule that we had sovereignty and regulated the Catalan civil service, it is where we have to recognize this situation, making it very clear that it is not a new form of contracting either. And finally, where we started. The one who will spend his own months, of course, we don't know. We have a perspective that this legislature ends on 21 December. We've seen so many things before – and so we have to say – that anyone knows, but it would seem that it certainly goes this way, that it ends on the 21st of December. But we want to give another transfer to the group of workers who are in a situation of temporality, precariousness and who are waiting for this law. That this proposal of law is adopted and transformed into applicable law does not depend either on the CUP or to a good measure in itself of what the groups are doing here, but essentially of what they do in the street, mobilising, claiming application of their rights, claiming application of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and, as always, with a mobilization of masses that is what can cause this stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.252.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, they have a turn to stand up to the proposal, and in the first place is Mr Dimas Gragera, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.253.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, good afternoon. Afternoon also to the platforms of public workers of interims who are following this debate with expectation and who, as they commented previously, have had dialogue with all the groups from this chamber. The truth is that today we are going to hold a debate which, in our view, is important. A debate that is recurrent, a debate that points to several chronic problems that we have already denounced, such as labour instability, precariousness, the temporality that is suffered in the public administration and in particular and in a more pressing way here in the Generalitat de Catalunya. A debate that, honestly, we believe it should have been the Government of the Generalitat that brought him here, that pushed him, that led him. But today we see that it is the opposition that puts on the table of parliamentary debate a debate that is welcome and that we, unlike the government, are not going to profile ourselves, because we believe that what is at stake is something as important as the job stability of our public workers, of people who, with their work and effort, keep the state of well-being in a situation, in addition to cuts, political pressures and political instability, which surely does not make their work easy. That is why, in my speech, I wanted first to address the public workers; then I want to make some notes on the management in this area that the Government of the Generalitat has carried out, and I will finally refer specifically to the legislative text that is before us today. As I was saying, my first words will be to thank the public workers for their work. Interim, temporary public workers, whom we consider, of all people, such as the victims, the victims of this situation and the victims of mismanagement in the field of public service, which not only extends in this legislature, extends quite a long time ago and to successive governments. And, being fair, it's not just any application in this administration either. We identify, therefore, as victims, we also identify as victims all those people who have been working for time by opposition, studying oppositions that are finally not called. And this situation of the victims is also recognised by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which precisely lays down, does it not? , the clear points about this situation and gives, as they previously said, two solutions: to look for formulas to stabilize the situation or, secondly, if not, the Administration should compensate for the situation. And I believe that here we should mark the first positioning. Our position is, of course, that these workers stay, and seek formulas with consensus, with legal certainty and without comparative grievances with other administrations so that this can be possible. It is a solution that we agree is not easy, but I believe it is our duty as public servants to look for it. In this connection, I would like to read a paragraph from my colleague Jordi Cañas' letter to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service who expresses the will: "By means of this letter I would like to respectfully urge you to take the initiative and urgently encourage the necessary actions to give a solution to the temporary workers who are living this unjust and incompatible with European Union law, to ensure their stay in the job and to put an end to a long career of job instability. We have identified who the victims are and in this case it is also up to us to point out the perpetrators. The culprits are the governments that have had jurisdiction over public administration, and in particular, as far as this administration is concerned, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. In this legislature, the temporality index has been increased by almost four points, and unacceptable levels are already rising by about 40_per_cent and, as we say, the situation has not improved in recent years, but has worsened. It is true that it affects any Administration, but the Generalitat leads this index if we make a comparison of the autonomous communities of the Spanish State. Among the solutions that can be proposed, we have a very clear one, which is the change of leadership, and we have said it openly: to withdraw the powers of Public Service to Mr Puigneró, because he has not been able to have an adequate and necessary dialogue, not only with these workers, but also, as we have also seen, with the trade union representatives. And we are surprised that you, who always talk about European justice, "when European justice is pronounced..., now you have on the table a sentence of European justice and you have not spoken, and you have not acted, and you have not led. On the other hand, it contrasts with, as we see, when you want to place someone, who easily decrees, changes departments, creates chiringuitos, right? , and we would have liked this agility to deal with the problem. I insist that it should be you who lead a solution, and today, because I believe that your move not to obstruct this debate has more to do with the electoral calendar, with the times, than with a real will to prosper this proposal of law that we have and we can go to the presentation forums to discuss it. I believe that as a government they continue to do the kick-forward tactic, and otherwise time will come to us. Finally, by focusing in particular on the bill that is being debated, in honor of the truth, we have to say that we have quite a number of differences in the literality of the text. But I think the spirit..., and I think the group that drives it also does it with this intention, don't they? , to move on to a paper and that we can discuss. But in honour of the truth, it must also be acknowledged that the proposing group has brought it to the parliamentary debate, and that it is our duty as public servants, and of course the spirit of this group, that when there is a real problem such as this one on the table, to pronounce us and to go to the presentation stage. That is why I have already announced – and all public workers know this, and I think all groups in the Chamber know this – that Citizens will not block the process, and in fact they have not tabled an amendment. I did not want to go into too much discussion of the law, because I think it should be in the next forum, but there is something that we believe is even contradictory. We can understand all the arguments, we even share several stabilizations if we look at the past time, right? All of these people have for years also demonstrated merit and ability in the exercise of their work. But, in article 3 of this law, what we observe is that we want to make the exception standard, and I can understand the intentionality, that this will not be repeated again, but, of course, if what we do is that when this situation is repeated, the stability of the post is automatically guaranteed, in the end what we will be encouraging is that the squares are not called as they should be called. I believe that it is a contradiction in itself, and it is clear, from the very beginning, that we are clearly opposed to this point and that we want to debate the text as a whole. Finally, I wanted to end as I had begun my intervention, addressing me to the public workers, addressing me to all those people, to all those collectives who have explained to us what their real situation is, who have explained to us what their position is, who have made us see with their experience what the magnitude of the situation is, and I believe that by following us, as I have said, to merit and capacity, but also taking into account the personal stories behind, I believe that we must be flexible in this interpretation of merit and capacity in order, precisely, to arrive at a solution that will ultimately be in the general interest. Because in the end, having a stable and confident public function about your future job I think it will also result in the service that is ultimately provided to the citizens of Catalonia. As an anecdote, I confess that at one of these meetings I addressed a person and honestly said to him: "The solution is complicated, we do not escape anyone. And the person answered me: "Yes, the solution is complicated, but precisely you exercise a public office to seek solutions to the problems we raise from the collectives. And he said to me in a tone, I think that playful, joking, he says: "You must get into a room, you must lock yourself up and there you must sit until you are able, among all, to provide a solution. I believe that the law that the proposer group brings us today is not in itself a solution, but I believe that it is the room and it is the key with which we have to lock ourselves, are the next parliamentary steps to be able to seek consensus, because I believe that the issue occupies many public workers and is important enough for us to give priority to it in our debates. And a paradox and final reflection: the management of the Government has been so bad, it is so much the need to strengthen the templates, that it could even be compatible the regularization with summoning oppositions, and would not conflict these two rights, which I believe we all recognize as victims of these two collectives. I am telling you, the Citizens' Party will not block the process and we hope that today, that no one will block this, will not really be for the electoral calendar and be for a conviction such as that expressed by our group. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.254.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.255.0	Thank you, President. Well, it is essential to start this intervention today by addressing those who are listening to us today, because they are carrying years of this situation to their skin, and because this Parliament has years of talking about this issue, but we have not managed to put reliable solutions to this issue either. And because it has been said before, but I think it has to be stressed, that we have an administration that in terms of being a lever of labor rights, it is currently a engine of precariousness. We cannot tolerate this with the country and with the public administration that we are, because at least, that less than asking that the Administration, therefore, act as a referent in the field of labor rights. And this is a subject that, as I said, has been dealt with by this Parliament on many occasions, many times, with motions, resolutions, demonstrations, finds, appearances..., I believe that there is no parliamentary format that this Parliament has not seen on the subject of the Interns. And these days, making memories and also recalling initiations to prepare for this intervention, we see as many years ago that this issue is in this Parliament, it is not a recent issue, but it carries years in which it has accumulated the pulse on this subject. But before discussing the proposal made to us by the CUP Group today, he did want to make a short appeal about public administration and how it is in this area, because they are also aware of the people who are listening to us about the magnitude of the tragedy we are talking about today. If we are talking about the field of education, one of the pillars that we have at stake today, which today is defending that education is still in place at a very complicated time of pandemic, we are talking about 33,000 workers in the field of education– 33,000 –, 40_percent of the staff in the field of education. The other day also reading at the press on this subject, read the witnesses of a lady, who is said to be Neus, fifty-eight years old, who in her twenty-night waiting for her place, who works in a social gathering center and waited, as the goddess did, twenty-eight years to hold her place in worthy conditions – twenty-night. What do we say to this woman before she's jubilee? Obviously, education is a sector where much of this workforce is concentrated. I told you, 40 percent of the education staff is in a position to be interested. This obviously encourages precariousness. And we also have some collections that are particularly affected by this situation, such as the TEIs, the technical specialists in child education, who are hard hit by this situation, as I mentioned. So let's go to other areas, too, these overworked days come out of the pandemic, as can be Work and Social Afers, which we see they have 28 percent of the workers affected also by interinatge. But let's move forward, if we go to Justice, a 37_per_cent, 4,900 interim workers. But if we go to a sector especially..., I think that at these times, therefore, that affects us all, that is sensitive, like salvation, we have 42_percent of the health staff with interinatge– 42_per_cent –, 15,300 temporary workers in the world of salvation. At a time when we ask the staff not to leave, not to invade the country, that we have a problem to capture talent in this country, because they are staying here, because the working conditions are not the best, we are offering an interinatge of 42_per_cent to these people. Obviously, here we have a difficult problem, in a context of epidemic like what we currently have, we see as personal lack, as we flee talent and as they do not return and remain in our country to work. And we can find out a little more why it can be. If we go to the Department of Business and Knowledge, a 34_percent of its staff is interested. And lastly – in this appeal that I will make to you, that you will not be all the departments of the Generality –, if we go to the Department of Vice Presidency, Economy and History, we have a 40_percent interest. If we add the amount of interest in the Generality, and here I want to mention the Deputy Vidal Aragonese, because he said "55,000 and, according to the data I have from the Generality, there are 59,000. In four thousand more than the Member of Parliament refers to, there are 59,000 working people working in the Generality. Deu-n'hi-do. And if we're going to look at what profile these people have, which is also interesting to know what profile they occupy, as it was also said, they're the majority between the ages of thirty and forty, and they're clairvoyantly women, with whom the precariousness comes back to have, once again, the face of a woman. If we are in the centre..., for what the proposal presented to us today by the CUP Group, we have important points on the proposal presented to us by the CUP today. We believe that the judgment does not say well that the UPC recedes in this proposal. We believe that there are also alternatives that must be able to explore and also the layman, in his exhibition, so he put them on the table, right? And we also believe that there are important fears, such as the consideration of a subsequent temporary personal relationship, which has an important margin of interpretation and which must also be able to speak, because the feeling does not define it clearly, nor the way in which we understood it was collected by the CUP Group. And, therefore, it must also be possible to study. The court also invites a case-by-case study of the situation of the persons concerned, with which, as it commented, too, is a very complex area. I've always said it, I've said it to the committee as well. The solution to this problem will not be easy. I think the proposal we have on the table today is a possible solution, but I don't think that much less is the final solution. We have here a very complex set of solutions to address a lot of issues, where there are many points, and obviously, therefore, it will be in the question phase where we can address them as they play and with the rigour they play, because of this, as I said, the future of some 59,000 people in the Public Administration. I wanted to tell you that, frankly, I don't think that's the proposal that can give a solution, but that our group will work during processing because it is, that's the point that we all have folds. And we also hope that the workers of different administrations can bring light into this environment. We know that there are currently joint work between the local world, the Generality, the autonomy and also the State, to find a joint solution to this problem that affects many areas of administration, as has been said and in different stages, with which we also have confidence that this group can bring a little light, apart from the question that this Parliament will obviously make. In short, we believe that we need to solve the situation by three very basic reasons: one, for them, for the interiors, that obviously they deserve to have rights recognized as such. In the second place, for the Administration, because it is not convenient for the Administration to have a pre-qualified, temporary staff, without knowing which is their time of certainty and to have a staff that is in condition of consolidation in order to be able to pull forward. And the third, for justice – and never better said, today, surely they get out of court. But why can't we have an administration that is, as I said, a pre-charitable engine; we can't afford it and we don't want from our group that's like this. As I said, and to finish, our group will work on this line that commented on them. We believe that the time has come to move from the graces given to Twitter to concrete words and facts, that we want it to work on this issue and that we hope that, before this legislative mandate ends, we can have a solution for these 59,000 interested people who today look at us very much in the face of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.256.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.257.0	Thank you, President. I would not wish to fail to begin this intervention on the need for the stability of the workers of the Catalan public sector, which is presented to us by the group of the UPC, without recognizing and sending all the help to the different collections of workers and workers of the Generality in a precarious situation and, it has not been referred to us now, in a situation of interintegration, that I believe that during these practically three years, they have come constantly from different sectors of the Generality to meet with us – from people of the social sphere; it was also spoken of the workers linked to education, from many different sectors – who have repeatedly warned, that there was a reality that the people of the social sphere, and that they, in fact, failed to do so, failed to do so. I also believe that it would be worth making an appeal and a balance on how the legislature has been in the public sector. I think it has been a lost legislature, and it is a legislature in which there has not been a real advent on the situation of the Catalan public sector, and especially the reality of the workers and workers. He said that there was a lost legislature and that there was a legislature that began with conflict: I want to remind him that we were about to arrive at a general vacancy in the public sector, they were about to call a vacancy, because the Catalan government was refusing to return the foreign payments, and if it was not for the threat practically of the day before the call for the general vacancy in the public sector there was no solution, in this case, that made reference to the return of double payments in 2013 and 2014. And it's also a legislature that ends up in conflict – I also told the committee later. That is to say, it is no less than the two main unions, in this case, Workers' Commissions and UGT, that denounced the Generality, but also basically because of the way in which you related to the representatives of the workers and public workers..., with the complaint by these two unions to the Generality for violation of trade union freedoms. And, therefore, I think it's a waste, with the least, facing it, right? And, above all, be aware that we are, as I said, in this situation of pandemic, in this situation of economic and health crisis, in this context of lack of stability of public workers and workers, with a much higher degree of anxiety, for which I explained now, because..., with a, I would say, over-exercise and over-involvement of public workers and workers, in the situation of emergence of the health crisis, but that, at times, despite the fact that they have repeatedly claimed that certain, for example, processes of convening public competitions, therefore, are taking place. Also, because – it is now referred to – it is common or not common, there can be situations of competence in which people who are giving it all and working up to many more hours than they theoretically have to do on their working day entered..., I would not say "against, but in competition or towards people who can devote more hours to preparing for a public opposition. As a matter of fact, I also told the committee: I have the feeling that with you, as an advisor to Digital Policies, I think there are many things that we could share, for example, I think that with the deployment of optical fiber..., in fact, when we negotiated the assumptions, it was a priority for the Government of the Generality and for us too, but I think that in many other themes, I have said it: I believe that the subject of public service has made it more important during this legislature, and that you are for other things; well, probably for training, for devotion and all, I like it more. In fact, the last one was with the Catalan NASA. In fact, today I read an article..., he did, I would say, thank you read it, which is entitled "The astronaut Puignero. It's a Sergi Sol article, huh? It's not my idea. In fact, I also..., said – I literally read – : « We should be blushing about the brawling announcement of Puigneró to qualify this miserous bet of Catalan NASA. (Founding voice.) Yeah, no, no... that's what he said... That, in any case, is what Mr Sergi Sol says. I also said this one day: with partners like the Republican Left I did not oppose it, that I believe it is also another of the things going on in this legislature, that it is this constant sham between the Republican Left and Juntes for Catalonia, also because they do not share surely how you managed the public service. The problem is that, of course, in the end they govern together and they want to govern together again, but I'm already saying it, because surely they can't tell their Republican Left members. But I said it: it was a lost legislature. I also believe that, in the background, what there is – and, in fact, has always been – is a certain sight, on the part of his world – I also told him one day that you were a convergent black paw – that it is good that the public sector of the Generality is as small as possible. In fact, many times it has been said, as an element of criticism to the rest of the State or even to other European countries that there are much more workers and public workers, and that, in any case, Catalonia, as an element of dynamism, is already well enough to have only 4_per_cent of workers and public workers. While I believe, and I should also be one of the conclusions of the crisis in which we may or should all agree – all of us – that really in a situation of emergence like we have had, of health crisis and also of economic crisis, which has actually taken care of us and who has protected us is the public sector. And that if we had probably, for example, a more powerful, more robust public sector in the health sector, so this could probably have enabled us to cope with the health crisis, in a way, I would say, with more security for the citizen and citizens. I think, for example, of primary care, which has many difficulties, and where, for example, we also have a health sector with high degrees of precariousness and temporality, for example, which is, I would say, an essential and fundamental service in the case of administration. And, therefore, entering what the law lays down, I think we should try to find solutions, and I won't enter the ciphers. I think he's stood out now, don't he? But I think it's up to you to talk about a time of 25... between 25 and 33 percent of public workers, when we theoretically have a commitment to get to 8 percent. That is to say, I also want to ask him if he believes he has failed in this object, because you repeated repeatedly that he wanted to get there and that his objective was to lie down at 8_per_cent. I think we're on the road, but anyway, it's how we find the way because this reality is facing the year. And, above all – and back to what I gave to the principle – when we find ourselves with cases of public workers and workers who explain their situations to you..., who I think here has failed everyone, and I have no problem in recognizing that different governments have failed, of different colors, but when someone explains to you that they bring in twenty-five years of work to the Generality and that they have, after giving, I would say, the best of their life as a public servant, of losing their work, the answer we have to give them, from the Parliament of Catalonia or from the Administration, cannot be good, it is that we have to call a contest or we have to call a public square, and, in any case, then we will see it not if we can keep it. I also told him, in his day, that if you had a more fluid dialog with public workers and workers, there were ways to actually lead the work path and, in this case, the merits, more than anything else that was the theoretical thing of an opposition, and that could be done from the social dialogue. I told him I had the social dialogue with the social workers, you always told me no. Also..., it does not stop being curious, as let me at least leave it in that there is no good relationship, because if in the end you end up being denounced for violating the freedom of association, we say that they do not go to dinner together, to say it in some way – they could not now – but in any case, we say that they do not have a fluid relationship; I would not say broken, perhaps, if they do not like it so much, but in any case they are not well-gotten, eh? Leave him alone. But in any case, I think I need to find a solution. This could be a way. You also said that the way is through a modification of a state law, which is that of the State of Public Workers. I agree. The most effective and quickest way to give stability guarantees. I think you need to find solutions to the cases that obviously affect concrete people. I also told the committee: I am pleased that you are now in full loyalty and respect the institutional compliment of the state of law. It doesn't stop being, with the least, fun. I suppose in this case you have to see what he was also expressing – that's not the way we have to go, is it? , according to our group – which has to do with the possible massive compensations and, therefore, with the volume of public resources that would go if this European legislation did not actually apply and opts for, between comets and not between comets, "to welcome these workers and public workers after practically twenty or twenty-five years of service to all Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, I believe that the law – and I would like to thank the proposing group – is a good starting point. I also believe – and I also said this – that you have our commitment to work on it also at the level of the Congress of Deputies and, in this case, also from the Government of the State. And I'm glad you understand that collaboration is better than confrontation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.258.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.259.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, there are many workers in the public administration who suffer from temporaryity. Every day there are ninety_ thousand people in Catalonia who do not know if that day will be the last as a worker in the Catalan Administration. A government that, government after government, has cronified an unacceptable situation, which has become a constant in the Catalan administration. Behind these workers there are families who suffer the consequences of this labour instability, a instability that clashs head-on with workers' law, as well as with our legal system and the judgments of the European Union. Public administrations fraudulently abuse temporary appointments, a chronic temporality that is bad for people who suffer from it. But it is also bad for citizens who receive services. That is why we must all work to find solutions that will end this situation, and now more than ever, when many of these workers are demonstrating exemplary behaviour. Now more than ever, in this pandemic. In 2017 the Government of the Generalitat entered into an agreement with the unions in which it committed, in three years, to achieving a temporality of 8_per_cent. After a year, in 2018, that temporality had grown, we had gone from 20_per_cent in 2017, when we reached that agreement with the unions, to 25_per_cent, according to the EPA – it had grown five points in just one year, totally against what had been achieved or agreed with the main union forces. It is also a time-consuming process in sectors that have worked very hard in this serious pandemic: sectors such as health care, such as education. What do we say to these doctors, to these nurses, to those helpers who are in our hospitals every day, in our outpatient clinics, caring for all Catalans, when there is a government that does not care for its workers? Has the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia done its duty well? We consider that not, quite the contrary. In fact, public workers are still owed the 2014 extra pay six years after doing the job have not yet been paid. It does not seem to us that the Government's attitude towards its workers is welcome. We share an important part of the diagnosis of the group proposing this legislative change. Solutions must be sought not to perpetuate the problem we currently have. However, solutions from different perspectives can be targeted. In any case, it is important not to undermine the right of any citizen to equal access to the public service on equal opportunities and with criteria of equality, merit and capacity. That is why the Group of the European People's Party proposes that, in addition to what is proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we work towards a definitive solution to the problem, which is not a stretch. We must find a solution not to chronicle this situation. It is not a question of solving the problem of those who are today on a temporary basis, but that is not repeated in time. That is why we need to work more thoroughly on that normative development that closes the door to abusive temporality. We believe that it is important to focus the debate on other issues as well; to address, for example, the abolition of the replacement rate, the adaptation of the European Directive 1990/70 or the framework agreement to the EBEP. How do we characterize the abuse and fraud of appointments and recruitment? How do we link public supply to the real needs we have? The inclusion of temporary vacancies in the public offer for the year in which the vacancy is generated or in the period immediately thereafter. Or establish more clearly the cases of interinity and temporary recruitment, including penalties for the public administration to make such abuse. Therefore, we believe that this is not the time to stand idly by, as the Government has done in recent years. It's time for us all to work. We have a great opportunity now, and on the part of the People's Party we are going to put all the forces and all the energies to find a solution, not only to the temporary ones that are currently in the Catalan administration, but to prevent that situation from happening again in the future. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.260.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.261.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, this is a debate that is not the first time we have this Parliament in this Parliament; this is a debate that we have had in the form of motions and that we have also had, also, in the form of motions for resolutions in the different committees; it is a debate that we have repeatedly kept between the different political groups. And, therefore, I also want to pull back, pull back and do an analysis of how today's date is right here. The first point, social workers; social workers who at the beginning of the legislature, before a call for a process of stability, and therefore a call for opposition – precisely, here too, this paradox – see how, after being working for the Administration for more than twenty or twenty-five years in many cases, many of them with an age that exceeds fifty years..., therefore, they see their place of work in peril or at risk. Social workers are meeting with us. I'm sure they've met with all the parliamentary groups. With us, logically, with the Republican Group, they also met there. In fact, with Vidal Aragonese, we have met several times together. And get out of here we ended up working, precisely, in what was also said by Deputy Dimas Gragera, of Citizens : « Lock yourselves in a room, lock up and reach an agreement. Well, at that time it wasn't with Mr Dimas Gragera, at that time there was another Member of Parliament from Ciutadans, Mr Martí Pachamé, but all the parliamentary groups we sat in a room in this Parliament, we sat down with all, too, the unions represented at the general table of public office and also that was not represented at the general table of public office; we also sat down with the representatives of the platform of social workers, and we also reached an agreement. Finally – finally – this agreement ended with a halt to a process that was on the march, a process of stabilization, a process of opposition. Later the educators and social educators came, who also gathered in the halls of this Parliament to find a common position with respect to their problems. And finally, the technical specialists of children's education, the TEIs, have also come. We have also met with them, and we have also met with them telematically on a number of occasions. In fact, each of you has made reference to the meetings you have had with them. And also thanks to his persistence, to his willingness to find a solution, so we went on to evolve until finally today we are here with a proposal, with a proposal of law presented by a parliamentary group, in this case presented by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Popular Unit. On this proposition of law, we can debate it, and I think we have to debate it, and it is good that we do, but above all today we have to send a message, a message that must be very clear, and the message is that we are in this situation, and all groups have recognized it thus, not because of the action or inaction of a given government or of certain governments, but because of a matter of systemic and legislative character. The call for objections must be accompanied, logically, by that legislation which must accompany it. And, therefore, the amendments to the LEBEP, which were referred to..., certainly, now the Member of the PP has referred to it, but have abstained in a vote which has respected a specific point made by the Socialist Group in the Congress of Deputies where precisely he aimed at the modification of the LEBEP as proposed, as a solution in order to give answer to the judgment of March 19th of the TJEU. Reposition rate, deletion of the reposition rate. Another of the elements that is key and that we cannot omit the debate. The repositioning fee, which is determined and marked by the Government of the State, has been an impediment to the subsequent convening of stabilization processes. In fact, the LRSAL was in this great paradigm of the non-convocation of these processes of stability in the local world. Because today we are not only talking about legislation relating to the generality, but also what we are discussing today has direct repercussions on the local area, on the local world, and also on the supra-municipal area. So, I think we need to go deeper, and we need to go deeper. And we also have to do this because they are workers and public workers who for many years have been working for our Administration, because they have been working for our Administration and that in many cases they are propellants of the social services of our country, in many cases they are propellants of the public services of our country, with a high degree of knowledge and with a training outside of any doubt. In fact, many of you have referred to it in your intervention and I will also do so: all these months have been the ball of our society. Therefore, before this situation and before this general context, we must finally find a solution. The proposal, the proposal that we have on the table today – and I am grateful to Deputy Vidal Aragonés, and I know and know that I am speaking sincerely – is the door to the CUP; there is no mention of totality. Well, there was one that withdrew, a statement to the totality that was initially presented by the Socialist Party, which was paradoxical, because parallelly it presented a motion for a resolution to the Education Commission that made the application of the judgment of the Court of Justice of 19 March and parallelly it presented a statement to the totality to this "proposal of law that the application of this same judgment is also required, and certainly a statement referring to this directive, which is not from 1990, it is from 1999/70, of the European Council. Therefore, with this document we have on the table there is a broad consensus, I would say majority, I would say total. Reaching an agreement. And reaching an agreement that does not necessarily involve only the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. It's an agreement that we also have to move to state chambers. It is an agreement that we must also transfer the Government to Madrid. Because it is very important and very necessary that from all areas of the Public Administration is fireplaces in the same direction. The diagnosis is clear, and we all share it, but we also need to be very clear that the expectations that we have to generate today cannot see 'truncades with the end of this legislature. And, in fact, as all of you have spoken to the different collections of interested parties, one of the questions they ask us and one of the petitions they ask us is: "And what will happen when the 21st of December arrives? What happens when you can't finish the jobs because you finish the legislature? What will happen to this bill? Or what will happen to our problem? Will it continue? So our compromise is not. If there is a total agreement of this chamber to bring solutions to your problem, there must be a total agreement of this chamber because we still work there at the end of this legislature. Because they have to. But we also need to make it very clear that this great agreement that we can formalise in the parliamentary sphere must also be a great agreement that must be accompanied by the necessary collective bargaining, and by the general public service table, and all the social shares that have been represented at this general table. In fact, the late 30th of April was an in-depth analysis, or not so much in-depth, because there was not in this meeting, however, about the feeling of the TJEU, but I think we also have to ask all the agents involved. And, therefore, the general table of public office, as a collective bargaining area of the workers and public workers of the Administration of the Generality, also have a very relevant paper. Therefore, before all this situation, Members and Members of this House, there is a lot of work to do. But it's also true..., and this is also a song to cheer up many of the looks and you see that they're watching us right now, that I think it's been two or three years – hi, Deputy Aragonese? – They see it quite difficult that today we are having this debate in this House. Therefore, we also need to put this in the replenishment and we also need to give all the value. Therefore, to continue working, to advance this proposal of law, to debate it in depth, to work it in depth and that, even though this legislature is over, the work continues because it did not end all 21 December; if not, it continues. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.262.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.263.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor Puigneró. I also wanted to begin, therefore, by greeting all the collectors who, as my fellow Members and Members have indicated, have been in contact for all these three years. Surely today this intervention of two minutes cannot be the totality of the discussions and the nuances of such a complex subject – denying that it is a complex subject I believe is not real or transparent. And, especially, I wanted to dedicate the intervention and have a thought for the Olgues, who are the TEIs in this case that I remember very well when, with the pandemic, therefore, they explained to me the work that they did to the schools of Raval, from here to Barcelona: they cared for children who were living the confinement with fifty_metres_squares. Because many times when we talk about data and statistics in the public sector, we don't get what's going on, that's a lot of public service calling, and a lot of voice and compromise with institutions. So I'm saying because sometimes data is important, but also the reality, which is what we've known these three years. I also thank Mr Vidal Aragonés for his proposal. He knows that..., and the counselor knows that if we've discussed many times, more than anyone else thinks, he's been very much on the issue of acting and how to give it a way out. And so I feel just as questioned and compromised, as the CUP has done with this bill, with the work we've done. It is true, as the Aragonese MP said, that many times we say: "We do not have legal discussions; we try to make political debates, do we not? And what we've been trying to do is make a political proposal. But it is true that there was that feeling, that this feeling is about a key and it has to be executed, and we are not the ones who will not say that we are going to execute the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, because yesterday we explained that we did not go to the Court of Strasbourg, so, to defend our rights as Members, but you also know that this feeling had generated many expectations... there are many studies in respect, and, precisely, not of professors, academics who can be few progressives, that this feeling did not finish with the expectations that we have. But there is a mandate, and there is a recognition, which is the abusive practice of public administrations in certain areas. And this has to be recognized, without complex. When things are good, you recognize them, and when there are areas where they are bad, too. And here we are talking about a group of public administration staff, and here we can talk about education or health, that we don't have any skills, because it's health staff, but there is a long-term internancing collectivity; in fact, the case of the feeling makes reference to interns of more than two years and two hundred concatenate contracts followed. So there's this reality and this reality we have to face. When you speak of temporality..., and it is true that Councillor Puignero had purchased himself to reach 8_per_cent; it is also true that the Government has made selection processes, made the public offer of greater occupation, and that, therefore, until these selection procedures are completed, obviously, the temporality cannot be reduced, and therefore an accounting will have to be made when these selection processes have been completed. But in any case this judgment of the ECJ..., that what we pose is that – you also know, because you are also a lawyer – the competence to execute the judgment is the competence of the State, huh? , powers the State. We can also make us responsible for executing the sentence, but it is true that this feeling is not concrete as it is. And you're planting a mechanism, and it seems interesting to me. We don't just agree, and so we've talked to different unions, because we're not sectarians either, and so, if it's a problem we share, this legal surgery that you just proposed, we don't see it in its totality. But, as we have not presented the whole issue, because we understand that there is this problem and we want to answer it, so we understand that this is our position. And, above all, the effect, right? When you refer to the proposal of the Congress, it is because... – and so did Congressman Dimas Gragera, right? When you work with the..., when you meet with the collectivists, they say: "I want you to give me a solution, without populism, with legal certainty, attentive that there are people who have been working for 20 years, and I want a solution. And what did you do together for Catalonia? So once there was a feeling, and because there are political forces that hold over the Congress... Because it is very good that we say "the Parliament of Catalonia..., but you know that also Article 149.18 of the Constitution establishes the exclusive competence of the legal regime of the bases of the public administrations and of the statutory staff. And, therefore, what we will not do – with the precariousness and patience that we have all known and that we share with all of many people, you will function long-term interims that have suffered from an abuse or a precariousness – promise regulations that then we cannot ensure their viability. It would be very easy here to promise something different, wouldn't it? , a different policy, but I think that, when they know the circumstances with which the problem explained to you, we have tried to open up all our lives. And two lives, who are they? Mr Vidal, you have put forward this proposal and you know that we have submitted it to you and we have not been able to make any comments, have you? , it was: we present it..., but we have to adhere – we have to adhere –, we have not been able to make statements. I'd like to have the CUP..., too, if I present a law to me, I say: "I adhere to the law that Junts presents for Catalonia, even though we can't make statements. That's what we found. So, I'm taking the right side of it, which is that we have this law. We have made this proposal to the Congress, which I believe is a proposal for centrality, which is a proposal which, moreover, when you talk to trade unionists do not see it badly. That they have doubts, huh? – and I believe that we are not the only ones – respect the proposal that you make to Parliament; that is why we have not presented a statement to the whole, we have not presented it, and because we recognize the problem. But it is true that when you talk about temporality I do not accept – the deputy of the PP – the repositioning taxes of the Rajoy government, and for years continue. So, man, try to be curios. So, I admit the criticisms of a formation that was born two years and a half ago, which is Together for Catalonia, and we can admit the difficulties and political context of the Government of the Generality – I assume. But the deputy of the PP gives us lessons, when they were the first to be years, years, years, years with the repositioning rate at zero, so, until here we can get. And you respect the game, don't you? , as now the so-called most progressive government of history, therefore escorts, have a proposal to the Congress. If you have the courage, you will find a divender with a council of ministers and approve the Junts proposal for Catalonia to solve this issue. They know it's a proposal that's legally understandable from a lot of points of view, and technically I think it's absorbable. And when you talk to the social workers and pass them the proposal, so they see it with good eyes – they see it with good eyes. Therefore, from this point of view, therefore, I encourage them. And for me this is clever confrontation. We are opening the two lives – the two lives –, the way of the Parliament of Catalonia with the proposal in Madrid that we can defend and debate and the way to the Parliament of Catalonia. They'll find us both here. What can't be discussed and different positions depending on where we are. We're trying to keep the same. Therefore, we take the proposal of the CUP, of the deputy Vidal Aragonés; we share the diagnosis – when I was listening to it... –, we share much of the diagnosis. It is a law that affects the entire public sector, so when we talk about the public sector of the Generality it is in its totality and with the broadest concept. I also think we need to define here, don't we? – because we have thought about it and this issue has occupied us – the presuppositional impact it can have – the presuppositional impact it can have. The consequences of running for trial and not winning, at all... we have more doubts here. And, therefore, I think it was important, therefore, to plant it today, above all, therefore, with a great deal of respect for the people who, with so much public service vocation, carry fifteen, twenty years in an interim situation, when there was fraud, obviously fraud, on the part of the Administration. Therefore, we are being questioned. We believe that we have the two open lives; that those who demand that it is finished with the precariousness in these contracts and in these situations of functioning that there have been, absolutely fraudulent, therefore, have the opportunity to have a divestment to the Council of Ministers – I also expected it on the subject of denunciations, right? So in the end, it had to be the government of the generality... so a divender can settle it with a council of ministers, with a royal decree, that's it. It is to amend the EBP. They have the capacity to do it, the most progressive government has the capacity to do it. Therefore, I place them in this solution. And, finally – because I'm telling you that I have a lot of points, because this has been one of the issues..., let's say that when you know the problem and the cases, so the more you ask yourself, the more you try to get the Parliament of Catalonia to give it a solution – we continue to work there. The legislature was over, they say, on the 21st of September – I am sure of that – but I believe that the work that can be done will not disappear, and the Members who follow us, and we are still or are not here in the Parliament of Catalonia, I am sure that the way that the UPC has opened up, in this sense, and we, our proposals that we have made to the Congress, and that it will be the ones that we will keep here, with collective bargaining, as Deputy Jordi Albert said, and you will see that the glove will also fall back, right? A little bit of everything, from Pol, but also from the co-worker, I think that's what we're going to try to do. And that if we don't get it in this legislature, then it's the MPs and MPs who are next to it. So thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-04-6501.264.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, and the debates are over, we're calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] I'm sorry, respect this past debate, I forgot to say that as long as you didn't show up, you're on your way, huh? It was obvious, but it needed to be said. Thank you. [[Long break.]] We've just proven ourselves technically... [[Long break.]] All right. We're there, I'll explain. In any case, with the delegated vote and the changes respecting this morning of the delegated votes, when there are these changes, the whole system must be restarted. We could have done two things, or we could have done a few things because we could have done it, or we could have taken advantage of those minutes to make these proofs. It's already here. Therefore, let us proceed to the vote on the points that we have dealt with during this late, which are the votes in accordance with item 3 and item 4 of the agenda. Before going to the vote, the adventurous fact that ninety-two Members and Members have delegated their vote, the Members and Members have joined the telematic vote, and twenty-two Members will do so face-to-face. [[Decree-Law No 34/2020 of 20 October on urgent measures to support economic activity in rented premises (continuation)]] [[203-00059/12]] Let's vote, then, the first point, which is number 3; vote on the validation of Decree Ill 34/2020, of 20 October, of urgent measures to support the economic activity developed in the premises of negotiated leases. The vote begins. This decree was validated by 68 votes in favour – 49 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents – with no votes against and 65 abstentions. Now I have to ask the chamber if anyone, some group wants to process it as proposed by law. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 61 votes in favour, 72 against—correspondents to 53 delegates and face-to-face and 9 telematics—without abstention. [[Decree-Law 35/2020, of 20 October, amending Decree-Law 19/2020, of 19 May, and Decree-Law 29/2020, of 28 July, concerning the adoption of social and health measures to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00060/12]] We now proceed to vote on Point 4, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 35/2020 of 20 October, amending Decree Law 19/2020 of 19 May, and Decree Law 29/2020 of 28 July, as regards the adoption of social and health measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree was confirmed by 64 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. Correspond to ask the chamber if any group wants it to be votes – yes? – processing as proposed by the law. [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as proposed by law, given that 61 votes have been cast in favour, 64 against – 45 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics correspondents – 8 abstentions. There are no more points to vote. Therefore, the session is suspended until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you very much.
